 Case Number:  24STCV06769    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Default
Judgment
Plaintiff Stephen Watkins requests court judgment by
default against defendant Brittany Loyd. 
Plaintiff’s application for default judgment meets all requirements.
Plaintiff Stephen Watkins’s request for court
judgment by default is granted.  The court will sign and enter the proposed
judgment plaintiff submitted on June 5, 2024.Defendant Brittany Loyd’s
Motion to Request Use of Digital Evidence Presentation System and Motion for
Reconsideration
I. Use of Digital Evidence Presentation System
            Defendant
Brittany Loyd moves for an order permitting her to use the court’s Digital
Evidence Presentation System (DEPS) to present video evidence in support of her
motion for reconsideration.  No court
order is required to use the court’s DEPS. 
This motion is unnecessary. 
Defendant served and lodged the video evidence with the court.  The court has viewed and considered it.      
II. Reconsideration
            Defendant Brittany Loyd moves the
court to reconsider the order denying the motion to vacate her default.  
            Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration is untimely.  A motion
for reconsideration must be made “within 10 days after service upon the party
of written notice of entry of the order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) 
On June 26, 2024, the court denied defendant’s motion to vacate
default.  On July 5, 2024, plaintiff electronically
served and filed notice of that ruling on defendant.  Defendant therefore had until July 17, 2024
(10 calendar days plus two court days due to electronic service) to move for
reconsideration.  Defendant served and
filed the motion for reconsideration on August 14, almost a month after the
deadline.  
On
the merits, defendant does not show sufficient grounds for
reconsideration.  The moving party must show diligence and explain why he or she could not
have presented the new or different facts or law earlier.  (California
Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 46; Baldwin v. Home Sav. of America (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1200.)          
Defendant’s motion primarily repeats arguments about
insufficient service of process.  She now
submits video evidence about the service of process but does not explain why
she could not have presented that evidence earlier.  Even after considering the evidence, the
court finds plaintiff has proven personal service of the summons and complaint,
which constitutes valid service “[o]utside this state but within the United
States, as provided in this chapter.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10, subd. (b).)
Defendant also argues her former counsel did not
adequately represent her at the hearing on defendant’s motion to vacate
default.  Defendant makes a conclusory argument
that her counsel was “unprepared.”  She
fails to show her counsel was unprepared or that, with better preparation, her
counsel could have succeeded on the motion to vacate default.  Moreover, assuming defendant showed both of those
elements, the default was not “taken against” defendant “through … her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect” and “the default … was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd.
(b).)  “ ‘An act is a cause in fact if it
is a necessary antecedent of an event.’ ” 
(Benedict v. Danner Press (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 929.)  The default was taken against defendant two
months before the hearing on her motion to vacate the default.  Her former counsel’s representation at that
hearing could not have caused a default that had already happened.         
Defendant further contends the court has no personal
jurisdiction over her because she resides in Texas.  Defendant fails to show why she could not
have made this argument in her initial motion. 
The court also rejects this argument on the merits.  “Constitutionally, California courts may
exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have sufficient ‘minimum
contacts’ with the state.  Minimum
contacts exist where the relationship between the nonresident and the forum
state is such that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend ‘ “traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice” ’ under the due process
clause.”  (Buchanan v. Soto (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)  “ ‘Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific. 
A nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of
the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are “substantial ...
continuous and systematic.” ’ ”  (Ibid.)
Assuming defendant has not made a general
appearance, which “ ‘is equivalent to personal service of summons’ ” (Levine v. Berschneider (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
916, 923), and further assuming defendant’s extensive contacts with California
are insufficient for general jurisdiction, the record establishes this court
has specific jurisdiction over defendant. 
A state court has specific
jurisdiction over a foreign defendant if “(1) the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to
or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion
of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice.”  (Snowney v. Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062, internal quotes,
alterations, and citations omitted.)
This action is a dispute between former romantic partners Watkins and
Loyd.  Watkins’s complaint alleges, among
other things, that defendant misrepresented that she used money plaintiff gave
her to pay for law school tuition. 
(Comp., ¶¶ 14-16, 30.)  In May
2024, defendant moved for leave to file a cross-complaint.  Loyd’s proposed cross-complaint alleged Watkins
“intentionally interfered with an economic relationship between her and the
University of West Los Angeles School of Law.” 
(Prop. Cross-Comp., ¶ 42.)  It
further alleged Watkins damaged Loyd’s car.  (Id., ¶ 12.)  The proposed cross-complaint included an
exhibit of an invoice from “SV Mobile Auto Glass” including “customer
information” stating customer “Brittany” ’s address was 524 Flower Street in
Los Angeles.  (Id., Ex. D.)  It also included as an exhibit an
investigative report by the Los Angeles Police Department about the incident,
which stated Loyd’s address was 606 N. Figueroa St, #622, in Los Angeles.  (Ibid.)  The proposed cross-complaint further shows that
in November 2023, defendant applied to the Los Angeles Superior Court for a
domestic violence temporary restraining order against plaintiff.  (Loyd Decl., Ex. F.) 
The record thus shows defendant resided in California during the relevant
time and that events related to this action occurred in the County of Los
Angeles.  Defendant purposefully availed
herself of the benefits of this State, including by requesting an investigation
of related events by the Los Angeles Police Department and applying for a
domestic violence restraining order against Watkins.  This controversy arises out of Loyd’s
contacts with and former residence in California.  Asserting personal jurisdiction over Loyd is
fair and just. 
Disposition  
Defendant Brittany Loyd’s motion for order
permitting use of digital evidence presentation system is denied.  Defendant
Brittany Loyd’s motion for
reconsideration is denied.