  Case Number:  24STCV01738    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Maribel S. Medina’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas for Medical Records
Plaintiff Maribel
S. Medina moves to quash four subpoenas for records defendant Los Angeles
Community College District (LACCD) served on four healthcare providers.  LACCD’s subpoenas demand “any and all
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to medical records, imaging studies
records, billing records, pharmacy records, admission records, office records,
mental and psychiatric records, emergency room records, sign-in sheets, medical
tests, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, photographs, patient care
reports, doctors’ reports, paramedic reports, notes, memoranda, correspondence,
videotapes, audio tapes, test results, diagnosis of condition(s), radiology
records, films, x-rays, MRI’s, CT scans, radiological reports and test results,
billing statements, invoices, charges, records of adjustments and/or
write-offs, credits, explanation of benefits, balances due and insurance
records, payments by or on behalf of Plaintiff, Maribel S. Medina … and any
other information pertaining to the medical treatment rendered, regardless
of date.”  (Cañon Decl., Exs. 2-5,
italics added.)
Plaintiff argues
the subpoenas violate her constitutional privacy rights.  “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must consider “the availability of
alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
Plaintiff satisfies
all three elements.  First, plaintiff
establishes a legally protected privacy interest in the requested records.  Individuals
have rights to privacy of their medical records.  (John B. v. Superior Court (2006)
38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198.)  
Second, plaintiff
shows a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances.  Bringing a lawsuit can reduce one’s
expectation of privacy in medical records, but plaintiffs do not completely
waive those privacy rights.  (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841–842 (Vinson).)  A reasonable person would not expect that suing
her employer and seeking damages for emotional distress would require
disclosing her entire medical history, “regardless of date.”  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges she only began
working for LACCD in June 2022.  (Comp.,
¶ 27.)   
Third, plaintiff
establishes a serious threatened intrusion. 
Requesting “any and all” medical records “regardless of date” is a
serious intrusion.  
The court therefore
must balance LACCD’s need for disclosure against plaintiff’s right of privacy
and consider available protective measures. 
LACCD shows it needs some medical records.  Plaintiff alleges intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  She alleges she “has
suffered and will continue to suffer pain and suffering, extreme and severe
mental anguish, and emotional distress.” 
(Comp., ¶ 154.)  In her
interrogatory responses, plaintiff stated under oath that defendants’ conduct
caused her to suffer severe emotional distress and various physical symptoms.  (Johnson Decl., Ex. B, pp. 22-23.)  When asked if she received any consultation,
examination, or treatment from a health care provider for injuries she
attributed to the incident, she identified the medical providers to whom LACCD
served subpoenas.  (Id., Ex. C, p. 11.)  
LACCD is
entitled to conduct discovery of plaintiff’s medical history to defend itself
against plaintiff’s claim she suffered severe emotional distress.  “[B]y asserting a causal link between her
mental distress and defendants’ conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not
caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of
alternative sources for the distress.”  (Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 840.) 
Moreover, the stipulated protective order entered on October 31, 2024,
will protect plaintiff’s privacy. 
Plaintiff
argues the subpoenas could include records of “highly sensitive sexual history,
birth control use, gynecological history, and third-parties’ medical
information.”  (Memo., p. 8.)  But plaintiff provides no evidence supporting
that claim and nothing in the record shows these healthcare providers have such
highly sensitive information.  
LACCD has not shown,
however, that discovery of medical records “regardless of date” is “ ‘essential
to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.’ ” 
(Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 61, 73.)  As discussed above, this
case arises from plaintiff’s employment with LACCD, which began in June 2022.  Limited records from before she began
employment may also be relevant to whether a preexisting condition caused
plaintiff’s emotional distress.  The
court therefore will permit discovery of medical records from June 1, 2021, to
the present.  
Disposition
             Plaintiff Maribel S. Medina’s
motion to quash subpoenas is granted in part.  Defendant Los Angeles Community College
District’s subpoenas shall be modified by limiting the records demanded to the
period of June 1, 2021, to the present. 