 Case Number:  24STCV20007    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Greenland LA
Metropolis Development III LLC’s Motion to Compel Judicial Reference and
Severance
Plaintiff Greenland LA Metropolis Development III LLC
moves to compel judicial reference of its complaint’s cause of action for
declaratory relief and the cause of action for declaratory relief alleged in
the Northland parties’ cross-complaint.  Plaintiff
further moves to sever the remaining claims in the cross-complaint.
Judicial Reference
Plaintiff shows good cause to compel judicial
reference.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 638 provides, “A referee may be appointed … upon the motion of a party
to a written contract or lease that provides that any controversy arising
therefrom shall be heard by a referee if the court finds a reference agreement
exists between the parties.”
It is undisputed that plaintiff and defendant
Northland Thea LLC entered a purchase and sale agreement in 2022.  (Comp., Ex. 1.)  Section 12.23 of the agreement provides: “Waiver
of Jury Trial.  Each of the parties
to this agreement hereby agrees to waive its respective rights to a jury trial
of any claim or cause of action based upon or arising out of this agreement or
any other document or instrument between the parties relating to this
agreement, the property or any dealings between the parties hereto relating to
the subject matter of this agreement.  …  In the event of litigation, this agreement
may be filed as a written consent to a trial by the court without a jury.”  (Id., p. 54.)  
Section 12.24 of the agreement provides, in
pertinent part: “Consent to Judicial Reference. 
If and to the extent that
Section 12.23 immediately above is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable, each of the parties to this Agreement hereby
consents and agrees that (a) any and all disputes shall be heard by a single referee
in accordance with the general reference provisions of California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 638 … .”  (Comp., Ex.
1, p. 54.)
            Section
12.23 is unenforceable.  “[G]overning
California constitutional and statutory provisions do not permit predispute
jury waivers.”  (Grafton Partners v.
Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 967.) 
The opposition acknowledges, “Northland could not have waived its right
to a jury trial before this litigation commenced.”  (Opp., p. 8.) 
The opposition argues that plaintiff “as of the filing of this
Opposition has not obtained a court ruling declaring the waiver unenforceable”
(ibid.) and that such a ruling is a prerequisite to reference.  In this order, the court is ruling that section
12.23 is unenforceable.  That fulfills
the prerequisite.  Section 12.24 of the
agreement therefore is effective.
            Defendants
contend compelling judicial reference of the claims for declaratory relief
poses a risk of inconsistent rulings.  Courts
have discretion to deny a motion for judicial reference on that basis but are
not required to do so.  (O’Donoghue v.
Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 245, 265-269.)  After considering all relevant factors, the
court will exercise its discretion to compel judicial reference.  The claims for declaratory relief will be
decided primarily based on interpreting the parties’ contract.  The claims are distinct enough from the cross-complaints’
other causes of action such that any duplication of efforts or inefficiency
will be minimal.
Severance
            Plaintiff
also shows good cause to sever all other causes of action from the two
competing claims for declaratory relief. 
 Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b) provides, “The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.”  The court finds that severing the remaining
claims from those subject to the contract providing for judicial reference serves
the interests of judicial economy.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Greenland LA Metropolis Development III LLC’s motion to compel judicial
reference and severance is granted.  Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 638, the court hereby orders that plaintiff’s cause
of action for declaratory relief and the fourth cause of action for declaratory
relief alleged in the cross-complaint by defendants/cross-complainants Northland
THEA LLC; Northland THEA Portfolio LLC; Northland THEA Portfolio II LLC; Northland
THEA Portfolio III LLC; and Northland THEA IV LLC shall be resolved by judicial
reference pursuant to the parties’ purchase and sale agreement.  The parties shall select a referee via the
procedure stated in section 12.24 of the purchase and sale agreement.  The court hereby severs all other causes of action from the above causes of
action for declaratory relief.  
Notice of Related Case
            On December 10, 2024,
cross-defendant/cross-complainant Metropolis Master Association filed a notice
of related case in this action.  The
notice asserts this case should be related to case No. 24STCV18383.  California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(d)
provides, “The Notice of Related Case must be filed in all pending cases listed
in the notice and must be served on all parties in those cases.”  This notice of related case was not filed in case
No. 24STCV18383.  Cross-defendant
Metropolis Master Association is ordered to serve and file its notice of
related case in case No. 24STCV18383 forthwith.