  Case Number:  23STCP02775    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  85 
Bradley Business Center
et al v. City of Santa Clarita et al, 23STCP02775

Tentative decision on demurrer:
sustained 



 
            
            Respondent City of Santa Clarita and
its City Council (collectively, “City”) demur to the Petition filed by Petitioners
Bradley Business Center and I-5/126 Limited Partnership (collectively,
“Bradley”). 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply,[1] and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. Petition
            Petitioners
commenced this action against City on August 2, 2023, alleging (1)
administrative mandamus and (2) inverse condemnation.  The verified Petition alleges in pertinent
part as follows.
 
            a.
Statement of Facts
            In
August 2006, Petitioners acquired 9.49 acres of real property near the northeast
corner of Newhall Ranch Road and Interstate 5 (“Property”).  Pet., ¶¶ 1, 12.  The City’s November 2007 General Plan
confirmed the Property was zoned as Business Park (“BP”).  Pet., ¶12.  North of the Property is the Pitchess
Detention Center, a Los Angeles County correctional and detention facility.  Pet., ¶19. 
Across the Interstate 5 freeway to the west of the Property are Industrial
zoned properties.  Pet., ¶19.  Parcels to the east and southeast are zoned
as BP.  Pet., ¶19.  
After acquiring the Property, Petitioners engaged in
discussions and meetings with the City to develop the Property.  Pet., ¶13. 
Petitioners learned the City was preparing to place a Planned
Development Overlay on the Property which would have limited viable uses under
the existing BP zoning.  Pet., ¶14.  
            The
City wanted the overlay because it wanted the previous Property owners to sell
to Costco.  Pet., ¶14.  Petitioners met with Costco and learned it
was not interested in buying the Property. 
Pet., ¶14.  Petitioners objected
to the restrictions that the proposed overly would impose on the Property.  Pet., ¶14. 
After Petetioners met several times with the City’s then Community
Planning Director and Planning Director, the City withdrew its request for the overlay.  Pet., ¶15. 

            In
early 2007, the City Council approved a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) to
work with Petitioners to determine the Property’s development.  Pet., ¶15. 
The City repeatedly demanded that Petitioners create a sales tax-generating
project.  Pet., ¶16.  Because the Southern California Gas Company
(“SoCal Gas”) refused to provide an access easement through its adjacent property
to Newhall Ranch Road, the only access to the Property was through Biscailuz
Drive, which is a narrow two-lane road,. 
Pet., ¶17.  Petitioners could not find
a potential commercial use to provide tax revenue as demanded and turned to self-storage
as the only practical and economically viable development for the Property.  Pet., ¶17. 
Self-storage was permitted by the BP zone designation in place when Petitioners
purchased the Property.  Pet., ¶17.  
Petitioners then learned that the City had changed the
zoning from BP to Community Commercial (“CC”). 
Pet., ¶18.  The November 2007
General Plan lists the zone as BP, but the August 2010 General Plan Update – Land
Use Change Map lists the zone as CC.  Pet.,
¶18.  The City gave no specific notice to
Petitioners of this zone change.  Pet., ¶18.  The City made the formal zone-change in 2013
and confirmed it in a December 2018 General Plan Update.  Pet., ¶18. 

            The
City singled out two parcels for the zone change from BP to CC: the Property
and SoCal Gas’s parcel.  Pet., ¶20.  Of the two, only the Property is privately
owned with any probable development potential in the near or foreseeable future.  Pet., ¶20. 
This zone change leaves the Property and the SoCal Gas parcel as a
two-parcel CC island, surrounded by Industrial and BP zoning.  Pet., ¶20. 
The zone change constitutes irrational and arbitrary discrimination
targeting Petitioners’ Property.  Pet.,
¶20.  
            The
CC spot zoning leaves Petitioners with no means of practical economic
development of the Property.  Pet.,
¶21.  CC zoning is limited to uses such
as daycare centers, retail, office, restaurants, and limited automotive repair
uses.  Pet., ¶20.  None of these uses is desirable in close
proximity to a detention facility.  Pet.,
¶21.  Nor could Biscailuz Drive
accommodate the traffic that these uses would bring.  Pet., ¶21. 
These uses also would require access to the public sewer, which
Petitioners do not have without access to Newhall Ranch Road.  Pet., ¶21. 

            Self-storage
is the only economically viable use for the Property.  Pet., ¶22. 
It is allowed under BP zoning and was one of Petitioners’ intended uses
when they bought the Property.  Pet.,
¶22.  Self-storage generates less traffic
than CC uses and would not overtax Biscailuz Drive or require access to the
public sewer and wastewater services. 
Pet., ¶22.
            In
July 2018, Petitioners submitted a One Stop Review application to the City
Planning Division.  Pet., ¶23.  The application sought preliminary review of
a 320,584 square-foot self-storage and recreational vehicle storage facility on
the Property.  Pet., ¶23.  On August 30, 2018, the City’s Design Review
Committee (“DRC”)[2] issued a
Design Review Report (“2018 Report”). 
Pet., ¶23.  The 2018 Report acknowledged
the Property is in a key commercial area that the City wanted developed as an
active intense commercial use.  Pet.,
¶23.  The City admitted that the Property
could not support intense commercial use because of the narrowness of Biscailuz
Drive.  Pet., ¶23.  The 2018 Report also stated that the proposed
use was not permitted in a CC zone and that the City does not support a zone change
or General Plan amendment for the Property. 
Pet., ¶24.  These comments were inconsistent,
arbitrary, and discriminatory.  Pet.,
¶24.  The City knew about the Property’s access
and wastewater constraints when it entered into the 2007 MOU with Petitioners.  Pet., ¶24.
            In
September 2022, Petitioners submitted a second One Stop Review application seeking
preliminary review of a change of zone and General Plan amendment for the
Property from CC back to BP.  Pet., ¶¶ 25,
27.  The September 2022 application explained
that the Property (1) had insufficient access to support the high traffic that
any land use permitted under CC zoning would bring, (2) was too close to the
7,000-inmate Pitchess Detention Center to make such uses safe, and (3) had to
rely on an onsite wastewater solution unfit for CC uses because extension of
the public sewer system to the Property was not feasible.  Pet., ¶26. 
Returning the Property to BP zoning would render it consistent with
surrounding zoning and uses.  Pet.,
¶27.  A BP zone would also restore
Petitioners’ ability to evaluate and consider pursuing economically feasible
uses.  Pet., ¶27.  Petitioners’ September 2022 application confirmed
it was not seeking review of any specific site plan or development.  Pet., ¶28.
            On
November 17, 2022, the DRC issued a Design Review Report (“2022 Report”) treating
the September 2022 application as a request for specific plan of development.  Pet., ¶28. 
The 2022 Report rehashed many comments in the 2018 Report.  Pet., ¶28. 
It stated that the CC zone is intended for businesses that provide
retail and service uses and are typically located along arterial streets or the
intersections of high traffic corridors. 
Pet., ¶29.  Yet, the City has
known since 2007 that the Property is not located on an arterial street.  Pet., ¶29. 
The City also knew that the Property does not have access to any “high
traffic corridors.”  Pet., ¶29.  The 2022 Report also stated that self-storage
is not permitted in the CC zone and would require a zone change and General
Plan amendment to either BP or Industrial. 
Pet., ¶30.
            In
response to the DRC’s 2022 Report, Petitioners prepared an application (“Zoning
Application”) for a change of zone and General Plan amendment to change the
Property’s zoning from CC back to BP.  Pet.,
¶31.  The Zoning Application did not seek
review of any specific site plan and/or development.  Pet., ¶31. 
The requested zoning change would reverse the City’s spot zoning and restored
the zoning that existed for the Property when Petitioners purchased it.  Pet., ¶31. The proposed change would have been
consistent with surrounding properties and the DRC’s comments in its 2022 Report.  Pet., ¶31. 

            When
Petitioners attempted to file the Zoning Application on February 6, 2023, the Planning
Division would not accept it.  Pet., ¶32.  Petitioners were informed that that Planning
Division representatives would contact them with clarification or directions within
the next two days.  Pet., ¶32.  The City did not contact Petitioners during
that time.  Pet., ¶32.
            On
February 15, 2023, Petitioners electronically submitted the Zoning Application.  Pet., ¶32. 
The Zoning Application confirmed that once the City restored the BP
zoning, Petitioners would evaluate and consider submitting a proposed
development project consistent with the restored zoning and City
standards.  Pet., ¶33.
            The
Zoning Application reiterated that the limited access to the Property from Biscailuz
Drive, the proximity to Pitchess Detention Center, and the impracticability of
extending the public sewer system to the Property destroy any economically
viable commercial use under CC.  Pet.,
¶35.  Self-storage is not stigmatized by
proximity to Pitchess Detention Center, can operate effectively with onsite
wastewater solutions, and does not generate high volumes of traffic that would
strain Biscailuz Drive.  Pet., ¶36.  It is one of the only economically feasible
developments available for the Property. 
Pet., ¶36.  The requested rezoning
and General Plan Amendment would enable this development.  Pet., ¶36.
            The
City did not deem the Zoning Application formally filed on February 15,
2023.  Pet., ¶37.  The City asserted that Petitioners were
required to propose a specific development project for the City to consider a zone
change and General Plan amendment.  Pet.,
¶37.  On March 1, 2023, City Senior
Planner David Peterson (“Peterson”) informed Petitioners the City could accept
the Zoning Application without a specific development project, but only if
Petitioners performed a full CEQA analysis that contemplated the highest use of
the Property.  Pet., ¶37.  This would cost Petitioners hundreds of
thousands of dollars.  Pet., ¶37.
            On
March 27, 2023, Petitioners met with City Planner Peterson to discuss the Zoning
Application and the Property’s development limitations.  Pet., ¶38. 
Petitioners explained that it would be futile to spend money on a CEQA
study only for the City to refuse the rezoning as stated in the 2018 Report.  Pet., ¶38. 
Peterson agreed to investigate whether the City would reconsider its
staunch opposition to a zone change and General Plan amendment.  Pet., ¶38. 
Peterson said he was supportive of a zone change but would need to speak
to his superiors about it, including Community Development Director Jason
Crawford (“Crawford”).  Pet., ¶38.
            On
May 5, 2023, Peterson confirmed by email that the City would not support the
requested change of zone and General Plan amendment.  Pet., ¶39. 
On May 16, 2023, Peterson emailed that he had spoken to Crawford, who in
turn had spoken to City Manager Kenneth Striplin (“Striplin”).  Pet., ¶39. 
Based on the comments received from Striplin, the City would under no
circumstances support or approve the zoning change.  Pet., ¶39.   This position was consistent with the
comments from the 2018 Report stating that the Property is in a key commercial
area that the City desires to have active, intense commercial uses and that self-storage
is not an active commercial use.  Pet.,
¶40.  
The City has made clear what its decision would be on
applications for a zone change, General Plan amendment, and a self-storage
project on the Property.  Pet., ¶40.  The City will not accept the Zoning Application
without Petitioners spending hundreds of thousands of dollars.  Pet., ¶40. 
California law does not require Petitioners to pursue futile
administrative remedies to invoke the court’s jurisdiction.   Pet., ¶40.
 
            b.
Causes of Action
            The
Petition’s first cause of action is for administrative mandamus, Petitioners
have exhausted their administrative remedies to the extent they are not
futile.  Pet., ¶43.  The City has made clear what its decision would
be on any application for a zone change, General Plan amendment, and a
self-storage project on the Property. 
Pet., ¶43.  It refuses to accept
the Zoning Application without expensive CEQA analysis, design plans,
landscaping and related studies.  Pet.,
¶43.  
            The
City has prejudicially abused its discretion by spot zoning the Property, refusing
to approve the Zoning Application, and refusing to permit a self-storage
development project on the Property, despite the fact that it is the only
economically viable option.  Pet.,
¶44.  This has seriously damaged
Petitioners and will continue to do so. 
Pet., ¶46.  The City also has a lengthy
history of harassment and discrimination against the Seidenglanz family, who
partially own the Property.  Pet., ¶47.
            The
Petition’s second cause of action is for inverse condemnation.  The City’s conduct constitutes inverse
condemnation through a regulatory taking depriving Petitioners valuable
property rights and economically viable use of the Property.  Pet., ¶50. 
The spot-zoning and refusal to restore the BP zoning has stripped the
Property of all economically viable development potential and diminished its
market value.  Pet., ¶51.  It also wholly undermines Petitioners
investment-backed expectations when they bought the Property zoned as BP.  Pet., ¶51. 
The City’s motive seems to be to force Petitioners to keep the Property
as open space or sell it.  Pet., ¶51.  The City also singled out the Property for
unequal treatment because, aside from SoCal Gas’ parcel, every surrounding
property remains zoned as either BP or Indutrial.  Pet., ¶52. 
The City has refused to compensate Petitioners for this taking.  Pet., ¶53.
 
            c.
Relief
            Petitioners
seek a writ of mandate compelling the City to (1) approve a zone change and
General Plan amendment for the Property from CC to BP, and (2) approve a self-storage
development project for the Property.  Pet.
Prayer for Relief, ¶1.  Petitioners also
seek compensatory damages.  Pet. Prayer
for Relief, ¶1.  
            Petitioners
seek a judgment that the City’s unlawful and improper actions constitute a
regulatory taking or inverse condemnation of property rights.  Pet. Prayer for Relief, ¶2.
            Under
both causes of action, Petitioners seek damages to the extent permitted by law,
costs, and attorney’s fees under CCP sections 1021.5 and 1036.  Prayer for Relief, ¶¶ 3-5.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
August 17, 2023, Petitioners served the City with the Petition and Summons.
 
            B. Governing Law[3]
            1. Statute
of Limitations 
            Govt. Code
section 65009(c)(1)
sets forth a statute of limitations applicable to actions attempting to attack,
review, set aside, or void a decision of a legislative body to adopt or amend a
(1) general or specific plan, (2) zoning ordinance, (3) regulation attached to
a specific plan, (4) development agreement, or (5) condition attached to a
variance, conditional use permit, or any other permit.  Such actions must
be commenced, and service must be made on the legislative body, within 90 days
after the legislative body’s decision.  Govt. Code §65009(c)(1).  
Govt. Code section 65009 is intended to provide
certainty for property owners and local governments regarding land-use
decisions.  Stockton Citizens for Sensible Planning v. City of Stockton,
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1491 (citing Govt. Code §65009(a)(3)).  In providing
this certainty, the statute’s function is to alleviate the “chilling effect on
the confidence with which property owners and local governments can proceed
with projects.”  Ibid. (citing Govt. Code §65009(a)(2)). 
 
            2.
The City’s General Plan
            The
Planning Commission provides recommendations to the City Council on legislative
acts such as General Plan amendments, revisions to the Unified Development
Code, specific plans, and land use ordinances. 
RJN Ex. B, p. I-14 (General Plan Introduction).  
            An
applicant may file for a General Plan amendment by submitting an application
with the City’s Community Development Department.  RJN Ex.B, p. I-22.  An amendment to the General Plan constitutes
a project under CEQA and is therefore evaluated for its environmental effects
and consistency with other elements of the General Plan.  Id. 
General Plan amendments must be reviewed for a recommendation by the
Planning Commission prior to final action by the City Council.  Id.
 
            4.
The Design Guidelines
            The
City adopted architectural guidelines in 2002, updated them in 2009, and
renamed them as the Community Character and Design Guidelines.  RJN Ex. B, p. 1-12.  The purpose of the Design Guidelines is to
retain and encourage architectural variety, promote quality, and maintain the
scale and appearance of the City, with attractive development that preserves
and enhances natural features and provides amenities for enjoyment of the
community.  Id.  The Design Guidelines play a critical role in
implementing the General Plan’s goals and policies.  RJN Ex. B, p. I-21.
            All
applications for development reviews, minor use permits, variances, conditional
use permits, tentative tract maps, grading permits, or other entitlements that
include physical alteration or construction shall be reviewed to ensure
consistency with the Design Guidelines. 
RJN Ex. A, p. I-14 (Design Guidelines). 
The Director of Community Development and/or the Planning Commission or
City Council will decide if a proposed project is consistent with the Design Guidelines’
overall intent.  Id.
            The
DRC consists of various City departments. 
RJN Ex. A, p. 1-19.  After
submission of a One Stop Review application, these departments provide
preliminary comments regarding the submittal requirements and the potential
development.  Id.  An applicant who goes through the One Stop
process receives credit for its cost towards the processing fees for the
project’s formal submission.  Id.  
            Depending
on the level of permit, a project may be approved by City staff, the Planning
Commission, or the City Council.  Id.  If a public hearing is necessary, the project
goes to the Planning Commission or City Council for approval.  Id. 
            
            C. Demurrers
            Demurrers
are permitted in administrative mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108,
1109.  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and
will be sustained where the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain; (g) In an action founded on a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP sections 411.35 or
411.36.  CCP §430.10.  
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face
of the pleading includes attachments and incorporations by reference (Frantz
v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94), but it does not include
inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904,
914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  
The ultimate facts alleged
in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied
or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.  This rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken.  Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome
Estates, (“Vance”) (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A]
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the
statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC
Information Services, Inc., (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413.
            If a demurrer is
sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as
may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or amended
pleading shall be filed.  CCP §472a(c). 
However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue,
a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times,
absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded
that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
             
The storage facility
proposed in Petitioners’ September 2022 Zoning Application is not permitted in
the CC zone.  RJN Ex. C, pp. 1, 4
(PL7).  Petitioners’ proposed use would
require a General Plan amendment/zone change if they chose to move forward with
the application.  RJN Ex. C, pp. 2, 4
(PL7).  Petitioners are entitled to apply
$1,515 in credit towards the entitlement fees for all the required entitlement
applications, including for a General Plan amendment/zone change.  RJN Ex. C, p. 2.  
            The 2002 Report
also advised that its comments are preliminary. 
Ex. c, p. 1.  
 
            D. Analysis
            Respondent
City demurs to the Petition’s administrative mandamus and inverse condemnation
claims.  
 
            1. Statement
of Facts
            The DRC’s 2022
Report states that the Property is located in the CC zone, which is for businesses
that provide retail and service uses primarily serving the local market.  RJN Ex. C, p. 4 (PL6).  Representative uses include restaurants,
clothing stores, hardware and auto parts stores, grocery markets, pharmacies,
banks and financial services, specialty retail, theaters and nightclubs, day
care centers, and medical services.  Ibid.  
            On September 8, 2023, City
explained to Petitioners the grounds for its belief that the Petition fails to
sufficiently plead any cause of action. 
Siegel Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.  Petitioners
disagreed but acknowledged that the City fulfilled the meet-and-confer
requirement.  Siegel Decl., ¶7.  The court agrees.
 
            2. First
Cause of Action for Administrative Mandamus[4]
            The City
contends that Petitioners failed to exhaust their administrative remedies for
the administrative mandamus claim and that it also is not ripe.
 
a. Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
            An as-applied challenge may not be
made through declaratory relief or traditional mandamus.  Rather, the appropriate procedure to attack
an adjudicatory or quasi-judicial decision of an administrative agency is to petition
for administrative mandamus under CCP section 1094.5.  State v. Superior Court (Veta Co.),
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 237, 249.  If the
petitioner seeks only to obtain a ruling that the regulation as applied to him
is unconstitutional, he must do so before the agency and its adverse decision
is reviewable by administrative mandate only. 
Tejon Real Estate, LLC v. City of Los Angeles, (“Tejon”)
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 155.  
As a general rule,
a court will not issue a writ of mandate unless a petitioner has first
exhausted its available administrative remedies.  See, e.g., Alta Loma School
Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School Dist. Reorganization, (1981)
124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.  Under this
rule, an administrative remedy is exhausted only upon termination of all
available, non-duplicative administrative review procedures.  Coachella Valley Mosquito & Vector
Control Dist. v. California Public Employment Relations Bd., (2005) 35
Cal.4th 1072, 1080.
The exhaustion
doctrine has been described as “a jurisdictional prerequisite to resort to the
courts.”  Abelleira v. District Court
of Appeal, (1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 293. 
The exhaustion doctrine contemplates that the real issues in controversy
be presented to the administrative body, which must be given the opportunity to
apply its special expertise to correct any errors and reach a final decision,
thereby saving the already overworked courts from intervening into an
administrative dispute unless absolutely necessary.  Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court,
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 391.  
The failure to
allege exhaustion of administrative remedies or facts excusing the failure to
exhaust renders the petition subject to demurrer for failure to state a cause
of action.  See, e.g., Stenocord
Corp. v. City & County of San Francisco, (1970) 2 Cal.3d 984, 990.  A mere allegation that petitioners have
exhausted their administrative remedies has been held to be conclusory and
insufficient to survive demurrer.  Pan
Pacific Property v. County of Santa Cruz, (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 244,
251.  On the other hand, such an
allegation has also been held sufficient to survive demurrer.  Wong v. Regents of University of
California, (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 823, 829. 
Therefore, the court has discretion in determining whether the
allegation is adequate.  
The City points out
the Petitioners applied for an amendment to the General Plan and a zoning
change but did not apply for approval of a specific self-storage project.  Petitioners have since abandoned their
application.  Hence, they have failed to
exhaust their administrative remedies.  Dem.
at 14.
There are
exceptions to the exhaustion doctrine; exhaustion is excused when an
administrative remedy is unavailable, is inadequate, or it would be futile to
pursue it.  McAllister v. County of
Monterrey, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th. 253, 275.  Other
exceptions include "situations where the agency indulges in unreasonable
delay...when the subject matter lies outside the administrative agency's
jurisdiction, [or] when pursuit of an administrative remedy would result in
irreparable harm...." Ibid; Green v. City of Oceanside, (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d
212, 222. 
The Petition relies
on one of these exceptions by alleging that exhaustion of Petitioners’ administrative
remedies would be futile.  Pet.,
¶43.  Exhaustion of administrative
remedies may be excused if the administrative agency has made it clear what its
ruling would be such that an administrative appeal would be futile.  Huntington
Beach Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Huntington Beach, (1976) 58
Cal.App.3d 492, 499.  Futility is shown
when “the petitioner can positively state that the [decision maker] has
declared what its ruling will be in the particular case.”  Gantner
& Mattern Co. v. California Employment Com., (“Gantner”)
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 314, 318.  The futility
exception applies only if the administrative process would serve no purpose
because the agency’s denial of relief is a fait accompli.  See Sea & Sage Audubon Society
v. Planning Commission of the City of Anaheim, (“Sea & Sage”) (1983)
34 Cal.3d 412, 418-19.  
The futility
exception to the exhaustion requirement is a mixed question of law and
fact.  Econ. Empowerment Foundation v.
Quackenbush, (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 677, 692.  Where facts are pleaded that would show an
administrative remedy is futile, the matter is a question of fact to be decided
when evidence can be presented.  Twain
Harte Associates, ltd. v. County of Tuolumne, (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 71,
90.  Allegations contradicted by
judicially noticed facts may be disregarded. 
Intengan v. BAC Home Loans Servicing LP, (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1055.  Evidence that the
decision-maker has previously decided cases on similar facts against the
petitioner’s position does not show futility. 
Abelleira v. District Court
of Appeal, (1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 300.  
            Petitioners rely on Ogo
Associates v. City of Torrance, (“Ogo”) (1974) 37 Cal.App.3d 830.  There, Ogo Associates applied for a building
permit to build low-income apartments financed by the federal government.  Id. at 832.  The existing zoning permitted construction of
the apartments.   Id.  Ogo applied for a building permit, but before
a permit could be issued, the city imposed a moratorium on building permits and
dwelling-unit construction in that part of the city.  Id. 
The city then rezoned the area for light manufacturing purposes only.  Id. 

The Ogo court
held that the futility doctrine applied to Ogo’s failure to exhaust its
administrative remedies by seeking a variance from the rezoning because Ogo could
positively state the city council would not have granted one.  Id. at 834.  The evidence was overwhelming that the city
council rezoned the area because of Ogo’s plans to build the housing
project.  Id.  It was inconceivable the city council would
grant a variance for the very project whose existence brought about the
enactment of rezoning.  Id.  
            Petitioners argue that, like Ogo,
they have included extensive allegations which, taken as true, make clear that
the City would not grant the Zoning Application and permit a self-storage
development.  The Petition alleges that,
when Petitioners purchased the Property, it was zoned BP and self-storage was
an allowed use.  Pet., ¶¶ 17-19.   In 2010, the City singled out the Property
and SoCal Gas’s adjacent property and rezoned them CC.  Pet., ¶¶ 20-22.  The City made the spot zoning change knowing
that the Property was not suitable for any of the uses permitted under CC
zoning, is located next to the Pitchess Detention Center, has limited access to
utilities and no sewer, and has limited road access that cannot support retail
or related CC uses.  Pet., ¶¶ 12-22,
26.  The City also knew that the zoning
island it created is effectively one parcel because the Property is the only
parcel privately owned.  Pet., ¶¶
20-22.  
Petitioners
submitted a “One Stop Review application in 2018 for a self-storage facility
and the DRC’s 2018 Report stated that self-storage is not permitted in the CC
zone and would require a zone change, and the “City does not support a Zone
change or General Plan Amendment for the subject property.”  Pet., ¶23. 
In response, Petitioners submitted another One Stop Review application
seeking preliminary review of a General Plan amendment and a zone change.  Pet., ¶25-22. 
The DRC’s 2022 Report reiterated that a zone chance and General Plan
amendment would be required.  Pet., ¶¶
28-31.  
In February 2023,
Petitioners prepared the Zoning Application for a zone change and General Plan
amendment, but the City demanded that Petitioners spend hundreds of thousands
of dollars before the Zoning Application would be considered.  Pet., ¶32. 
In March 2023, Petitioners met with the City’s Senior Planner to discuss
the Zoning Application and were ultimately informed in May 2023 that the City
Manager stated that the City would not support a zone change or General Plan
amendment.  Pet., ¶39.  This was part of a long history of harassment
and discrimination against the Seidenglanz family, which partially owns the
Property.  Pet., ¶47.  
From these
allegations, Petitioners conclude that they have alleged that the City changed
the Property’s zoning knowing that it would thwart the Property’s economic
development.  They rely on Ogo’s
comment that ‘[it is inconceivable that the city would grant a variance for the
very project whose prosecutive existence brought about the enactment of
rezoning.”  37 Cal.App.3d at 835.  Petitioners argue that the Petition’s
allegations concerning the DRC’s 2018 and 2022 Reports and the May 2023
communications confirm that a self-storage facility will not be permitted and
the City will not grant a zone change and General Plan amendment to do so.  Opp. at 6-9.
The Petition’s
allegations concerning futility are insufficient as a matter of law.   When Petitioners submitted the Zoning
Application in February 2023, they initially were informed that they needed to
have a specific project in order to obtain a General Plan amendment and rezoning.  Pet., ¶37. 
On March 1, 2023, Senior Planner Peterson changed the City’s position
and informed Petitioners that the City could accept the Zoning Application without
a specific development project, but only if Petitioners performed a CEQA
analysis considering the highest use of the Property.  Pet., ¶37. 
Peterson was supportive of a zone change when the parties met in March
2023, but he later informed Petitioners by email that he spoke to Community
Development Director Crawford, who spoke with City Manager Striplin, and the
latter stated that the City would under no circumstances support or approve a
zone change.  Pet., ¶39.  Petitioners implicitly acknowledge that they have
abandoned the Zoning Application.  
At most,
Petitioners knew from this triple hearsay alleged that the City Manager was
opposed to a General Plan amendment and rezoning.  Yet, it is the City Council, not a Planning
official or the City Manager, which makes that determination.  The City Council decides whether to amend the
City’s General Plan or zoning.  RJN Ex.
B, p. 1-22.[5]  Petitioners
have no reasonable basis to conclude that the City Council has declared it
would rule against the Zooning Application.
            It is for this reason that Ogo,
supra, 37 Cal.App.3d at 834, is clearly distinguishable.  The timing of that case is important.  The city council passed the moratorium and zoning
amendment expressly to prohibit Ogo’s project to construct low-income
apartments.  Id. at 832.  Ogo’s only administrative remedy was to apply
for a variance. Id. at 834.  The
futility doctrine applied because the city council, the decision-maker that
would have to grant a variance, was the same decision-maker that changed the
zoning ordinance to block the development. 
Id.  there was no reason to
believe the city council would change its mind.
Unlike Ogo,
the City Council has done nothing that would suggest the outcome of its
decision on Petitioners’ Zoning Application. As the City argues (Reply at 6),
it is speculative for the Petition to suggest that, since the City Council
adopted the General Plan Update in 2010 and the zone change in 2013, it necessarily
would deny Petitioners’ application.  See
Pet., ¶18.  These decade-old City Council
decisions do not demonstrate how the City Council would decide Petitioner’s Zoning
Application, or any application for a specific development project.    Futility is shown when “the petitioner can
positively state that the [decision maker] has declared what its ruling will be
in the particular case.”  Gantner,
supra ,17 Cal.2d at 318.  The
futility exception applies only if the administrative process would serve no
purpose because the agency’s denial of relief is a fait accompli.  See Sea & Sage, supra, 34
Cal.3d at 418-19.  The City Council has not
been presented with the pertinent facts and has not declared what its ruling on
the Zoning Application would be.
             The City correctly relies on Tejon, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at 149, in which a property owner wanted to build a
residence but had been “informed” by a fire department “representative” that a
building permit would not be approved unless there was a fire hydrant within
330 feet, and the owner received a DWP estimate that a fire hydrant would cost
it $77,000.  Id.  The owner sued, contending that DWP had an
obligation to provide water service and not impose these obligations on
property owners.  Id.   
The city demurred
to the initial and amended pleading, contending that the property owner failed
to prepare plans or seek a project permit that would enable city departments to
determine what conditions to impose on construction of the residence.  Id. at 156-57.  Complaining of the expense, the property
owner contended that it should not have to undergo plan preparation and
permitting procedures.  Id. at
157.  The Tejon decision stated
that the courts are unsympathetic to a landowner’s contention that it should be
allowed to litigate zoning or building regulations for a specific property
without undergoing the complete permitting process. Id.  Therefore, exhaustion of administrative
remedies was required.  
The developer
argued that the futility doctrine applied because it is certain that a building
permit would be denied unless a hydrant were installed within 300 feet of the
proposed residence.  Id. at 15.  The court held that statements by city
representatives other than the body charged with hearing and deciding an
application are insufficient to plead futility. 
Id.  The property owner
could not say with certainty what charges would be imposed or what conditions
would be enforced until the city rendered a final decision based on specific
plans for construction.  Id.  It would be premature for the court to step
in before the city had an opportunity to interpret its own rules and building
requirements.  Id.
Petitioners assert that
Tejon is distinguishable because the statements used to support the
futility argument were part of a “general conversation” with an “unknown representative
of the city.”  Id. at 152.  Opp. at 9. 
This distinction is too narrow.  Tejon’s
holding in part is that an administrative agency’s final position cannot be
inferred from general comments of staff, and it cited other authority to that
effect.  Id.  at 158. 

The Petition fails
to allege facts that would demonstrate that the City Council has declared what
its ruling on the Zoning Application, or a specific development application, would
be.  The futility exception to the
exhaustion doctrine does not apply and the demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained.
 
            b. Ripeness
For a controversy
to be ripe, it “must be a real and substantial controversy admitting of
specific relief through a decree of a conclusive character, as distinguished
from an opinion advising what the law would be upon a hypothetical state of
facts.”  Pacific Legal Foundation v.
California Coastal Commission, (“Pacific Legal Foundation”) (1982)
33 Cal.3d 158, 170.  There is a two-part
test for ripeness: (1) is the dispute sufficiently concrete? and (2) what is
the hardship to the parties of withholding judicial review?  Id. at 171.  A “hardship” means an “imminent and
significant hardship in further delay.”  Farm
Sanctuary, Inc. v. Dept. of Food & Agriculture, (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
495, 502.
            The City also argues that the
administrative mandamus claim is not ripe. 
Dem. at 14, 15; Reply at 6.  The
court agrees.  An action is not
sufficiently concrete if the plaintiff has not completed the administrative
mandamus process.  This is because the
court cannot speculate on what the agency would decide.  Pacific Legal Foundation, supra 33
Cal.3d at 172.  Petitioners have not
submitted a proposed development project and completed the administrative
process.  Petitioners’ financial cost in
completing this administrative process is not a “hardship in further
delay”.  As a result, the administrative
mandamus claim is not ripe.  
            
            3.
Second Cause of Action for Inverse Condemnation 
            The
Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution provides private property
shall not “be taken for public use, without just compensation.”  Similarly, Article 1, section 19 of the
California Constitution provides “[p]rivate property may be taken or damaged
for public use only when just compensation… has first been paid to, or into
court for, the owner.”  A land use
regulation constitutes a taking that requires compensation if its application
denies an owner economically viable use of his or her land.  McAllister v. California Coastal
Commission, (“McAllister”) (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 912,
937.  
It is up to the states to set the procedure by which
compensation may be sought.  Hensler
v. City of Glendale, (“Hensler”) (1994) 8 Cal.4th 1, 13.  If the alleged taking is regulatory in
nature, the property owner must afford the state the opportunity to exempt the
property from the allegedly invalid development restriction.  Id. 
The property owner may do so in a challenge to the development
restrictions imposed by the administrative agency.  Id.  A property owner is entitled to
a judicial determination whether a final agency action constitutes a taking for
purposes of compensation.  Id. at
15 (citation omitted).  An administrative
agency is not competent to decide whether its own action constitutes a taking,
and in many cases administrative mandate is not an adequate forum to do
so.  Id. at 16.  Typically, this is done through an inverse
compensation action, which may be joined with the administrative mandamus
claim.  Id. at 16.  
California case law has applied the exhaustion requirement to
inverse condemnation.  In arguing that a
final decision has been made for ripeness purposes, the claimant has the heavy
burden of setting forth facts that are “clear, complete, and unambiguous”
showing that the agency has “drawn the line, clearly and emphatically, as to
the sole use to which [the property] may ever be put.”  Toigo v. Town of Ross, (1998) 70 Cal.
App. 4th 309, 325.  If the
plaintiff fails to exhaust his or her administrative remedies for mandamus,
there also is no ripe takings claim.  Hensler,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at 10-13.  Until a final administrative decision has
been made, one which affords the administrative agency
and any reviewing body having similar authority the opportunity to amend the
agency decision or grant a variance, whether a taking has occurred through
application of a land-use regulation to specific property cannot be determined.  Toigo v. Town of Ross, supra, 70
Cal.App.4th at 325.  Generally,
a final decision requires at least (1) rejection of a formal development plan
and (2) denial of a variance or something similar from the controlling
regulations.  Id. (citing Williamson
Planning Comm’n v. Hamilton Bank, (1985) 473 U.S. 172, 187-88).
            Because Petitioners have not
obtained a final administrative decision on their Zoning Application or a specific
development application, the inverse condemnation claim is not ripe.  
 
            F. Conclusion
            The
demurrer to the Petition is sustained.  Petitioners
seek leave to amend the Petition to cure any defects.  Opp. at 15. 
They fail to identify any facts they could allege that would cure the
defects and leave to amend is denied.  An OSC re: dismissal is set for
February 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


