  Case Number:  22PSCV00196    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Langer
Juice Company, Inc. v. Silly Brands, Inc., et al. 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Langer Juice Company, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Have Requests for Admissions
Propounded to Defendant Keith Davis Deemed Admitted, Pursuant to CCP Section
2033.420 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Langer Juice Company,
Inc., et al.’s motion to deem requests for admissions admitted. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Langer Juice Company,
Inc., et al.’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $810.00.
Defendant Keith Davis must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
              Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On March 2, 2022, plaintiff Langer
Juice Company, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Silly
Brands, Inc. (Silly) and Keith Davis (Davis), alleging causes of action for breach
of contract and common counts. 
On May 4, 2022, Silly filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff,
Bruce Langer, and David Langer, alleging causes of action for breach of
contract (Co-Packing Agreement), breach of implied duty to perform with
reasonable care, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
unjust enrichment, breach of contract (Operating Agreement), and breach of
fiduciary duty. 
On June 10, 2022, Bruce Langer and David Langer (Langer
Cross-Defendants) filed a cross-complaint against Silly and Davis, alleging
causes of action for breach of Silly Brands Inc. operating agreement (against
Davis only) and breach of fiduciary duty. 
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff and Langer Cross-Defendants (Moving
Parties) moved to have requests for admissions deemed admitted against Davis.
On April 18, 2024, Davis opposed the motion. On April 25, 2024, Moving Parties
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to a request for admission, the party
propounding the request for admission may move for an order to deem the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who fails
to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or work product. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court
shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section  2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).)  
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although meeting and conferring
is not required before bringing motions to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404), this Court does require parties to meet and confer before bringing
motions, (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are required to meet and
confer prior to filing any motion.”]) Moving Parties do not indicate having
attempted to meet and confer with Davis before bringing this motion. (Franck
Decl., ¶¶ 3-7.) The Court admonishes the Moving Parties to meet and confer
before bringing any motions going forward. 
Analysis 
Moving Parties indicate having served a set of Requests for
Admissions on Davis on November 16, 2023. (Franck Decl., ¶ 2.) Moving Parties
indicated at the time of filing the motion that they had not received responses
from Davis. (Id., 7.) 
In opposition, Davis indicates that responses were served on April
17, 2024. (Reynolds Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Davis
contends his responses substantially comply with the law, and that Moving
Parties’ conduct reduces or waives the right to monetary sanctions since
Plaintiff declined to grant Davis an extension. 
In
reply, Moving Parties contend that Davis’ responses are improper, contending
that they contain improper objections, statements of inability to respond, and
false statements that the requests seek a legal conclusion. 
The
Court finds that Davis failed to timely respond to the underlying discovery
requests. Davis does not dispute his responses as being untimely. (Reynolds
Decl., ¶ 6.) Nevertheless, Davis did provide responses before the hearing on
this motion. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Accordingly, the issue is whether his
responses are in substantial compliance. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
sudb. (c); see also (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148
Cal.App.4th at p. 404 [trial court retains discretion to grant discovery motion
if the responses are not in substantial compliance].) 
Moving
Parties contend that many of Davis’ responses contain improper objections,
namely Request
Numbers 5, 6, 12-21, and 23-37, which they contend the requests “call for a
legal conclusion.” Davis waived his right to object when he failed to serve
timely responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) In fact, Davis
acknowledges the waiver in his opposition. (Opp., 1:22-24.) However, the Court
does not view the responses as containing objections, but rather stating the
reasons why Davis lacks information or knowledge to enable him to admit the
matter after making a reasonable inquiry. The Court finds Davis substantially
complied with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220. 
The Court does not see any other improper objections. (See Reply,
1:13-18.) To the extent Moving Parties complain of qualified or conditional
responses, that is permissible. Responding parties are only required to admit
to the extent something is true, deny the extent to which something is not true,
and indicate when they lack sufficient knowledge to admit or deny. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (b).) 
Regarding the other responses, the Court finds Davis’ responses
substantially comply. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220; Id., 2033.280,
subd. (c).) Statements of inability to respond are permissible, provided the
responding party indicates having made a reasonable inquiry and that the
information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable the
responding party to admit the matter. (Id., § 2033.220, subd. (c).)
Davis appears to have done just that. (See, e.g., Opp., Ex. 1, Request No. 1.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to deem
requests for admissions admitted. 
The Court DENIES Moving Parties’ requests for issue and
evidentiary sanctions, as they did not provide a separate statement required
under Rule 3.1345 of the California Rules of Court, subdivision (a)(7). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(7).) The Court further declines to impose
issue or evidentiary sanctions without first imposing lesser sanctions. 
As for monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS the request in the
reduced amount of $810.00, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing the motion,
reviewing the opposition, and preparing the reply, plus 0.5 hours for appearing
at the hearing on this motion, for a total of 2.5 hours, multiplied by the
hourly rate of $300.00, for a total of $750.00, plus $60.00 for the motion
filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Langer Juice Company,
Inc., et al.’s motion to deem requests for admissions admitted. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Langer Juice Company,
Inc., et al.’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $810.00.
Defendant Keith Davis must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
              Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.