 Case Number:  23PSCV01547    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Orlando
Garcia v. Wayne Lee, et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike Answer of Defendants Wayne Lee and Francis N. Lee 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to strike answer of Defendant
Wayne Lee aka Francis Lee. Defendant Lee must file and serve an amended
verified answer to the complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a disability rights case. On May 22, 2023, plaintiff Orlando
Garcia (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Wayne Lee, Frances N.
Lee (collectively, Defendant Lee),[1] Rayed Abdulnour, and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for
violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act and the California Disabled Persons
Act. On June 29, 2023, Defendant Lee answered the complaint. 
On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff moved to strike Defendant Lee’s
answer to the complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiff did not move to strike Defendant Lee’s answer until
well after the 30-day time limit for making such motions. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435, subd. (b)(1).) Nevertheless, the Court retains the discretion to consider
such late-filed motions. (See Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742,
750 [trial court retained discretion to consider late-filed demurrer].)
Accordingly, the Court exercises its discretion to still consider Plaintiff’s
motion to strike, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of
the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 435, subdivision (a),
Plaintiff was required to meet and confer with Defendant Lee in person or by
telephone before bringing this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a).) Plaintiff
only indicates having sent one initial letter in July 2023 through Plaintiff’s
prior counsel. (Rishi Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, 6, Ex. 1.) The Court finds this
insufficient. Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a motion to strike for
failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a)(4).) The Court will still consider the motion, but admonishes Plaintiff to
comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
Analysis
“When the complaint is verified, the answer shall be
verified.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 446, subd. (a).) The failure to verify a
pleading that requires verification renders that pleading subject to a motion
to strike. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.) 
Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendant Lee’s answer to the complaint due to its lack of
verification in response to Plaintiff’s verified complaint. Plaintiff contends
he asked Defendant Lee to provide a verified answer, but to no avail. 
The Court
finds Defendant Lee’s answer is subject to a motion to strike for failure to
provide a verification. (See Perlman, supra, 99 Cal.App.3d at p. 575.) Plaintiff’s
complaint is verified. (Compl., p. 9.) Defendant Lee’s answer to the complaint
should also have been verified. (See Answer (6/29/23); Code Civ. Proc., § 446,
subd. (a).) The Court further construes Defendant Lee’s lack of opposition to
this motion as a tacit admission that Plaintiff’s argument here is meritorious.
(Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing
the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before
Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
strike Defendant Lee’s answer to the complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to strike answer of Defendant
Wayne Lee aka Francis Lee. Defendant Lee must file and serve an amended
verified answer to the complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.


