 Case Number:  23SMCV01114    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  I The court will discuss the matter with counsel.  It appears that at some point, plaintiff
developed an intervening and serious medical problem.  That problem means that plaintiff is still
undergoing medical treatment, but the scope of the treatment is not yet
known.  Because of that, defendant states
it has not been able to conduct an IME nor has it been able to complete
plaintiff’s deposition. 
 
The court would like to discuss with the parties just when
this issue came up.  It appears defendant
learned of it at plaintiff’s deposition on July 9, 2024.  But the court does not know how long
plaintiff has known of this.  The court
also needs to better understand why it is that this problem has meant that the
IME could not be done and why this problem meant that plaintiff’s deposition could
not be completed.  The court also does
not understand why the parties are confident that another 6 months will do the
trick given the unknowns in this case.  
 
In denying the prior stipulation, the court noted that it is
currently setting trials in the June 2026 time period and asked if the parties
would be willing to have the trial continued until then rather than asking the
court to bump another case where the parties have been working diligently.  The parties have not answered that question.
 
If this was truly unforeseen and unforeseeable, and if it is
truly the case that the case cannot be tried until these other medical issues
are resolved, then the court will need to continue the trial, but the court
gives the parties no assurance that the new trial will be before June
2026.  However, the court needs to better
understand what is going on to be sure that this is truly unforeseen and
unforeseeable and not based on a lack of diligence and that the next date will
not need to be continued again.
 
All of that said, the court might be otherwise engaged on
the date now set for trial.  If that is
likely, then the court is likely to grant the motion as there is little benefit
to forcing the parties to be ready for trial if the court will not be able to
hear the matter.  