 Case Number:  24SMCV03476    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to quash is CONTINUED TO ALLOW FOR JURISDICTIONAL
DISCOVERY.  
 
This case is brought by plaintiff Presley and alleges elder
abuse and fraud.  She claims that she is
the victim of a program by certain defendants to separate her from her long
time trusted advisors and then essentially steal her money through a number of
partnerships and other financial machinations. 
One defendant, Wright, acted as plaintiff’s counsel.  Plaintiff states that Wright had a
pre-existing relationship with the masterminds of the program and aided them in
convincing plaintiff to sign various documents that were instrumental in the
misconduct.  The court notes that some of
the defendants here have brought suit against Presley in Florida, which is
where the entities that were created were apparently formed (or at least the
pertinent agreements appear to have jurisdiction and venue provisions requiring
suit to be brought there).  There are a
number of motions to quash service of the summons.  This one is brought by attorney Wright, who
is licensed in Florida and not in California, who claims that California lacks
personal jurisdiction over her. 
 
Personal jurisdiction is the bane of first year law students
everywhere in the United States. 
Starting with the infamous Pennoyer v. Neff (1878) 95 U.S.714,
questions of personal jurisdiction have plagued lawyers and courts.  The doctrine is unique to the United States
(to the best of this court’s knowledge) and stems from our nation’s founding.  Because the United States is made up of
separate and sovereign states, one state simply lacks the power to issue
orders relating to citizens of another state and the attempt to exercise such a
power denies the defendant of due process. 
In other countries, that is not a problem.  There may be rules of venue governing where
one can bring a suit within a country, but it is not a question of
sovereignty.  Here, though, California
simply lacks the power to issue orders to a Floridian, either to force a
Floridian to come to California to defend herself or to issue some kind of
enforceable judgment over such a person. 
That doctrine is known as the doctrine of personal jurisdiction; whether
California has jurisdiction of the person of the defendant.  Of course, because we are talking about legal
doctrines, there is no such thing as a bright line rule that is truly bright
line, and personal jurisdiction is no exception.  As it has developed over time, a state can
exercise jurisdiction over the citizens of another state where that defendant
has sufficient “minimum contacts” with the forum state such that the suit here
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.”  (International Shoe co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310.)
 
Personal jurisdiction comes in two flavors.  There is general jurisdiction and special, or
specific, jurisdiction.  General
jurisdiction is where the defendant’s contacts with California are so pervasive
and substantial that the defendant can be sued here for anything.  For example, a person who lives in California
five months of every year, owns real property here, has a job here, and the like
can be sued here.  It does not matter
whether the specific facts giving rise to the action have anything to do with
what the defendant does in California. 
(There could be other reasons why the defendant cannot be sued in
California if the case is truly unrelated to the state, but personal
jurisdiction is not among them.)  Wright
claims that there is no general jurisdiction here, and plaintiff does not
appear to contest that point.  Specific
jurisdiction, which is the kind most often litigated and is at issue here, is
different.  It occurs when the
defendant’s contacts with California give rise to the underlying cause of
action.  For example, if a Floridian were
spending two days in California and during that time caused an auto accident,
the Floridian could be sued here for the accident even if that two day
experience was the only contact that the defendant ever had with the
state.  Some states have constraints
beyond those implied in the US Constitution’s due process clause, but
California allows its courts to exercise personal jurisdiction to the greatest
extent allowed under the US Constitution. 

 
Where a defendant contends that there is no personal
jurisdiction, that could lead to a problem. 
After all, if the defendant appears in court to contest the matter, the
very appearance could constitute jurisdiction by consent, which seems kind of
Catch-22.  Of course, the defendant could
always ignore the summons and challenge the resulting judgment collaterally,
for a judgment made without the power to do so is a nullity.  But that is a risky road.  Accordingly, a defendant contesting
jurisdiction may make a special appearance for the purpose of challenging
jurisdiction.  Such an appearance will
not constitute consent to California jurisdiction nor will it subject the
defendant to the lawsuit generally.  The
vehicle to contest personal jurisdiction is a motion to quash.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 418.10.)  When a motion to quash is brought the court
will undertake an analysis to determine if there is or is not personal
jurisdiction.  If the motion is granted,
the service will be quashed and the plaintiff can appeal.  If the motion is denied, though, the
defendant can either seek writ review in the Court of Appeal, accept a default
judgment and later attack the judgment, or appear.  The latter option, though, waives the
defense, and if writ review is denied either summarily or on the merits,
defendant is left with the hard choice.
 
A motion to quash is an evidentiary motion, even though it
is brought at the pleading stage.  That
means that the court can, and generally does, consider evidence.  In deciding the motion, it is the plaintiff’s
burden to establish jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.  That is determined by a three part test.  The first question is whether the defendant
has purposefully availed herself of the privilege of conducting activities in
California, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of California. If so,
then the second question is whether the claims at issue arise from that
purposeful availment.  If so, then the
plaintiff has met its burden and the burden shifts to the defense for the third
prong.  The third prong is whether the
exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable and would comport with
notions of fair play and substantial justice. 
(Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1558.)  Although it may not
be obvious from the phrasing, the first prong need not entail physical presence
in California.  That element can be
satisfied if the defendant has directed his or her activities at a resident of
California or has derived a benefit from activities here or conducted business
here or created continuing obligations between herself and residents of
California.  (Gilmore, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568.)  The test is
disjunctive.
 
Presley argues that the test is met here.  While it is true that Wright is licensed in
Florida, not California, Presley argues that Wright well knew that Presley was
a Californian and that the alleged fraud was designed essentially to steal
Presley’s property located in California. 
Presley contends that the scheme amounted to elder abuse—that is,
abusing the trust of an elderly person in order to conduct financial fraud
against that person.  Wright argues to
the contrary.  Of course, Wright denies
participating in any kind of illicit or improper scheme from the get-go.  She also states that Presley told her that
she intended to move to Florida and leave California.  In other words, Wright argues that just
because a Florida attorney has a California client, it does not mean that the
attorney can be sued in California. 
Wright is correct as a general proposition.  It is not enough that a Florida attorney
represents a California client to give rise to personal jurisdiction here.  For example, if a Californian traveled to
Florida and got into an auto accident and was sued there, a Florida attorney
undertaking to defend the case in Florida would not automatically be subject to
suit here for that reason alone.
 
However, there is at least some evidence that Presley signed
the representation agreement in California. 
(Presley Decl., ¶3.)  Although
Wright contends that most of the contacts occurred in Florida and the operating
agreements have jurisdiction and venue provisions for Orange County, Florida
(not to be confused with Orange County, California), Presley contends that
there were enough California contacts to justify jurisdiction here.  Among other things, Wright traveled to
California to attend a mediation involving Presley, although not apparently as
Presley’s counsel.  Wright contends that
all she did was draft the contracts at issue, but that is not clear to the
court.  Further, if there truly was a
scheme to bilk Presley out of her savings, that is tortious activity directed
to California (where the property was) and to a Californian (Presley).  Presley alleges that Wright was a part of the
scheme and claims that Wright represented the two major players in other
contexts, which also created a conflict. 
Wright, though, states that she taped her interactions with Presley and
that she specifically advised Presley to run the agreements by her other
attorneys before signing any of them and fully explained and disclosed how each
agreement would work and, presumably, disclosed her relationship with the other
defendants, whatever it was.  
 
The bottom line, though, is that the court cannot tell from
this record alone whether or not there is personal jurisdiction in
California.  The court will therefore
allow jurisdictional discovery to be taken and continue the motion to allow
further briefing based on that discovery. 
The court believes that Wright has at least made out a strong argument
as to the potential lack of personal jurisdiction, but plaintiff ought to be allowed
to test Wright’s claims including, but not limited to, the scope of her relationship
with the two major alleged tortfeasors as they might pertain to the instant
alleged fraud.  The court recognizes that
there could be some tricky issues of privilege in that last context.  To the extent that Wright actually
represented those individuals in other contexts, there will almost certainly be
privileged aspects of the representations, and the court will be slow to invade
such a privilege.  (The court also notes
that the privilege’s contours will almost certainly not be governed by California
law.)  And the court understands that it
could be difficult to draw the line between merits discovery and jurisdictional
discovery.  Suffice it to say at this
point—without any specific discovery at issue—that the court will allow
plaintiff a fair opportunity to conduct discovery, but it is to be related to
jurisdictional issues and the court will not allow this to morph into a general
license to take general discovery.
 
The court is aware that Wright also raises the issue of
forum non conveniens.  That doctrine
suggests that even if California has the power to force defendant to litigate
here, it ought to decline that power where there is a better forum
elsewhere.  California law suggests that
courts ought to be slow to exercise such discretion where the plaintiff is a
Californian, although even then there is a proper place for declining to hold
the case here.  And the court also notes
that plaintiff accuses the defense of elder abuse.  That strongly suggests that the court give
significant deference to plaintiff’s choice of forum if there is indeed
personal jurisdiction.  In any event, the
court believes it is not wise to consider the question now.  The court will address that aspect of the
motion if, and only if, the motion to quash is denied.  The court would also need to know more about
the Florida action before going forward. 
For example, it could well be that even if there is jurisdiction over
Wright here (and the court is not so ruling), there is not jurisdiction over
some other defendants, and only Florida can bring all of the parties
together.  If such is the case, that
would suggest that Florida is the better forum. 
But, again, the court does not have that information developed at this
time sufficient to rule on that aspect of the motion.
 
The court will discuss timing with the parties.