  Case Number:  19SMCV00671    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to continue the trial is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.  This is a breach of contract
action filed over five years ago.  ATS
Construction seeks to continue the trial. 
Trial continuances are disfavored; the party or parties seeking a
continuance must make an affirmative showing of good cause.  (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1332 subd. (c).)  The rule lists seven non-exclusive
considerations for the court in reviewing such a request.  The rule disfavoring continuances has become
sharper recently.  The court currently
has over 1100 cases on its docket, and the number grows each month.  The court’s calendar “works” on the theory
that there are no continuances and that 93% or so of the cases settle or are
disposed of short of trial.  While that
is probably not a bad assumption, it provides for no elbow room.  Where the court continues a matter, it means
that a case that could have been tried on the now-vacated trial date was set
for a later date, and it means that the trial being continued will potentially
bump another case that would otherwise be ready for trial and where the parties
have done what is required of them. 
Currently, the court is setting trials about 19 months from the CMC
date, and the line is growing longer each month.  Therefore, absent a really good showing or
evidence of some unforeseen and unforeseeable event, the court does not grant
continuances. 
 
The claim here is that defendant wants to retake discovery
and maybe file a summary judgment motion. 
The moving party is a relatively recent addition to the case, having
filed its answer in September 2024.  That
would normally be enough because a newly added party has rights, but there are
confounding factors.  First, defendant
was served on March 7, 2023.  The fact
that defendant chose to wait a year and a half before answering does not
demonstrate diligence.  Rather, it
appears to have been a tactical choice and will not justify a trial
continuance.  The court also notes that
it has already continued the case three times, although that was not
highlighted in the papers.  And finally,
there is a five year issue, although the court understands that everyone is
willing to waive that provision, but the statute is not just for
litigants.  It is also a statute designed
to ensure that court’s do not have overly-aged cases on the docket.
 
In short, there has been no showing of diligence.  The request is therefore DENIED.  If the parties or the moving party can
explain why it has in fact been diligent, the court is open to reconsidering
the matter.
 
The court also sees a notice of disassociation of
counsel.  The court will inquire whether
the client consents.  If not, then this
probably needs to be done by motion to withdraw rather than by notice.  But it can be done on an ex parte
basis if (as it appears) there are ethical concerns.