  Case Number:  20STCV43795    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Antonio Calderon, Ana
Canchola, and Frank G. Martinez filed this action against Defendant, SCE for
damages arising out of an electrical explosion and fire in an underground
high-voltage vault.  Plaintiffs’
operative complaint is their Second Amended Complaint, which was filed on
5/08/23.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Moving Request
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages and all related allegations from the SAC.  
 
b.     Basis
for Punitive Damages Request
Plaintiffs contend they sustained
damage because Defendant has a pattern and practice of ignoring its obligation
to remedy safety issues with its equipment. 
Plaintiffs support this conclusion with allegations that, in 2015, after
widespread power outages, the CPUC commenced an investigation.  In June of 2016, CPUC’s Safety and Enforcement
Division prepared a report, which concluded the outages were due to equipment
failures, and found the failures happened due to serious neglect and
deterioration of SCE’s Long Beach secondary network.  As a result of the investigation, the SED
concluded SCE violated General Order 128, which sets forth requirements for construction,
maintenance, and operation of underground electric facilities.  
 
SCE ultimately entered into a
settlement agreement, pursuant to which it was ordered to pay $4 million and to
perform $11 million worth of maintenance and enhancement of its
facilities.  Plaintiffs allege, at ¶20 of
their SAC, “Although THE VAULT was not specifically listed in the CPUC
decision, Plaintiffs are informed and believe and thereon allege that the
explosion and resulting fire that injured Plaintiff was caused, in whole or in
part, by the same or substantially same conditions that caused the other vault
failures, i.e. SCE’s inadequate operation, monitoring, inspection, management,
maintenance, repair and control of THE VAULT.” 

 
Plaintiffs then detail, at ¶¶21-29,
the history of the vault where the subject explosion occurred, including SCE’s failure,
in 2001-2002, to properly install the deadbreak elbow, and subsequent failure
to ever fix the improper installation.  
 
Plaintiffs go on, at ¶¶30-39, to detail
the various inspections over the years of the subject vault, to indicate there
were a total of 24 such inspections, including one approximately three months before
the subject explosion, and to conclude that the inspections were not thorough or
proper.  At ¶¶40-48, Plaintiffs allege
SCE had a culture of avoiding thorough inspections and repairs, which culture
was promoted by senior management and/or ratified by giving bonuses, raises,
promotions, and positive performance reviews to the individuals who
participated in the improper inspections. 

 
At ¶¶49-56, Plaintiffs allege
Brandon Orozco was killed in 2013 while working on SCE’s vault, and his death
resulted in the Orozco Order, which required ongoing compliance obligations to
provide safety benefits to workers like Plaintiffs, including disclosing known
hazards to Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege
SCE was also in violation of the Orozco Order when it failed to maintain or
disclose hazards to Plaintiffs.  
 
c.     Standard
for Imposition of Punitive Damages
Imposition of punitive damages on
SEC is governed not just by Civil Code §3294, but also by California Public Utilities
Code §2106, which provides, in pertinent part:
Any public utility which does,
causes to be done, or permits any act, matter, or thing prohibited or declared
unlawful, or which omits to do any act, matter, or thing required to be done,
either by the Constitution, any law of this State, or any order or decision of
the commission, shall be liable to the persons or corporations affected thereby
for all loss, damages, or injury caused thereby or resulting therefrom. If
the court finds that the act or omission was wilful, it may, in addition to the
actual damages, award exemplary damages. An action to recover for such
loss, damage, or injury may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction
by any corporation or person.
 
d.     §2106
SCE’s first argument is that §2106
does not permit imposition of punitive damages at all, and only permits
imposition of exemplary damages.  At page
15, lines 20-21, SCE argues, “In any case, §2106 also does not provide for a
claim for punitive damages.  Section 2106
only says exemplary, not punitive.”  SCE
cites nothing holding that there is any distinction whatsoever between the
words “punitive” and “exemplary,” which are used interchangeably under CA
law.  
 
e.    
Negligence 
SCE’s main argument is that Plaintiffs’
claims sound in negligence, and negligence can never support a prayer for
punitive damages.  Case law, however, is
rife with negligence claims that support imposition of punitive damages.  By way of example, in Nolin v. National
Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, the plaintiff sued the
defendant convenience store for negligence in connection with a slip and
fall.  The plaintiff showed, however, that
the defendant ignored an ongoing problem with oil spilling on the ground in
order to save money, which was found to constitute despicable misconduct done
with a conscious disregard of the health and safety of others.  Pursuant to Civil Code §3294, despicable
misconduct done with a conscious disregard of the health and safety of other is
the standard.  
 
Thus, the Court finds the mere fact
that Plaintiffs’ claims sound in negligence (and violation of PUC §2106) does
not, in and of itself, defeat their claims for punitive damages.  
 
f.      Willful
Act or Omission
The real question is whether
Plaintiffs have pled facts showing a willful act or omission, which is the standard
set forth in PUC §2106.  SCE makes a
number of arguments contending Plaintiffs failed to do so.  First, they contend the subject vault was not
within the scope of the prior settlement or related order.  Second, they contend Plaintiffs are improperly
attempting to invoke “reptile theory.” 
Third, they contend Plaintiffs were hired to fix the vault, which belies
their allegation that SCE failed to maintain or repair the vault.  
 
i.             
Scope of Prior Settlement and Reptile Theory
The Court will take the first and
second arguments together.  The crux of
these arguments, when read together, is that any failure on the part of SCE to
repair the subject vault was not within the scope of any prior order, and
therefore Plaintiffs’ use of “normalization of deviance” allegations amounts to
“reptile theory,” which has been rejected. 
SCE relies on Regalado v. Callaghan (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 582
to support its position.  The Court has
read and reviewed Regalado.  In Regalado,
the plaintiff’s attorney made a closing argument contending courtrooms and
courthouses exist for the primary purpose of keeping people safe.  The defendant, on appeal, contended the argument
was improper “reptile theory,” and the Court of Appeals held the remarks were
improper, but were not timely objected to and also did not prejudice the defendant
at trial.  
 
It is unclear how this argument
applies to this case.  This is the
pleading stage.  Plaintiffs are not
alleging anything related to general public safety, but instead are alleging a
specific history of pattern and practice concerning safety deviations by the specific
defendant being sued in the case.  The Court
finds allegations concerning past history of safety deviations is highly
relevant, and tends to show the deviation at issue in this case constituted a despicable
and willful omission, such that §2106 applies.
 
ii.            
Plaintiffs were Hired to Fix the Vault
SCE also argues, in reply, that
Plaintiffs were hired to fix the vault, which belies any allegation that SCE
systematically failed to fix its vaults. 
Plaintiffs allege they were hired to repair the structure of the vault,
including installing new walls within the vault, but SCE committed two errors
in connection with the repair.  First,
SCE failed to deenergize everything inside the vault.  Second, SCE failed to warn of or cure the
deadbreak elbow problem that was ongoing. 

 
Plaintiffs do not allege they were
hired to repair the problem they allege existed with the vault from 2001
forward.  The fact that they were hired
to perform certain repairs on the vault does not defeat their allegation that,
systematically, SCE failed to make all timely and necessary repairs on all systems
to prevent safety incidents from occurring. 
This argument therefore also fails.
 
g.     Corporate
or Employer Defendant
SCE’s final argument is that
Plaintiffs failed to allege facts showing the despicable conduct was done by or
ratified by a managing agent.  The Court
finds Plaintiffs’ allegations at, among other places, ¶¶30-48 sufficient in
this regard.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Plaintiffs, at the pleading stage,
have sufficiently alleged facts that, if proven, could lead a juror to conclude
SCE acted in a manner that shows willful disregard for their safety.  The pattern and practice alleged could be found,
by a reasonable juror, to be despicable. 
The motion to strike is therefore denied.  SCE is ordered to file an answer to the SAC
within ten days.  
 
SCE is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   