 Case Number:  BC570050    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

The case has a procedural history far too complex to reiterate in this
ruling.  As is relevant to this motion,
Randy Taylor, Reyna Taylor, and Steve Hawrylack were awarded a judgment in an
amount in excess of $4 million in a prior lawsuit against Stephen Forde.  They recorded a judgment lien in this case in
the amount of $3,442.579.08 (the amount then owing on the prior judgment, which
is accruing ongoing interest) against any potential recovery Forde might
ultimately obtain in this action.  
 
On 10/11/23, the Court entered a final judgment in this action in favor
of Forde and against Defendants, Allen Entous, in his individual capacity and
as a trustee of his trust.  The judgment
is in the principal amount of $118,965.95. 
The judgment includes an award of attorneys’ fees in the amount of
$473,699.18 and costs in the amount of $70,247.01.
 

Today’s Motion

a.     Relief Sought
Taylor, Taylor, and Hawrylack move for an order applying Forde’s rights
under the judgment toward satisfaction of their lien and instructing the Court
Clerk to endorse the judgment with a statement of the existence of the lien at
the time it was created.  They seek an
order applying Forde’s rights to $662,912.14 toward their lien.  This represents the full amount of the principal,
attorneys’ fees, and costs awarded to Forde in this suit.  
 
b.     Opposition
Forde filed opposition to the motion. 
It is clear, from reading the opposition, that it is really made by
Forde’s attorneys, the Buchalter firm, and not by Forde personally.  In any event, the opposition argues Buchalter
obtained an attorney lien in April of 2021, and the attorney lien is senior to
the moving parties’ lien.  Forde contends
the moving parties conceded, in meet and confer communications, that the
attorney lien is senior to their lien, and that the only remaining issue is their
contention that some of the fees at issue were incurred in connection with
separate bankruptcy proceedings and are therefore not properly included in the
lien.  
 
c.     Reply
In reply, the moving parties do not concede Buchalter has ANY senior
lien with respect to its claimed fees.  They
contend the full amount of their lien should be applied, or at least $254,912
should be applied without prejudice to them moving later to have additional amounts
applied.  They reach this amount by
contending Buchalter admitted, during meet and confer communications, that $408,000
of his claimed lien represents fees incurred in connection with this action,
and the remaining fees were incurred in separate proceedings.  
 
d.     Analysis
The Court has read and considered Brown v. Superior Court (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 320, 327, which both parties concede details the trial
court’s obligations when an attorney asserts an attorneys’ fees lien but does
not actually adjudicate his rights under the lien through court
proceedings.  In Brown, the Court of
Appeals held that an attorney’s contractual lien created prior to a judgment
lien has priority pursuant to Civil Code §2897. 
It posed the issue to be determined as follows: “The question, however,
is whether the trial court in the VMT action has the power to determine the
validity of Brown’s lien.”  Id. at
328.  
 
The Court of Appeals discussed at length an attorney’s lack of standing
to asset a lien in connection with the main action; because the attorney is not
a party to the action, he cannot make a motion therein or bring argument therein.  As moving parties correctly note in reply, it
appears Buchalter is attempting to circumvent this rule by opposing the motion
as “Forde.”  It is, however, clear that
the opposition is really brought on behalf of Buchalter, which is the entity
that has an interest in the outcome of the motion.  The Court of Appeals went on to note that there
were some cases permitting attorney lien seniority without a separate action,
but in those cases there was no jurisdictional objection posed, and therefore
the issue was not raised.  It concluded
that, where there was an objection asserted, the trial court lacked power to
determine the amount and priority of the attorney lien.  It concluded that the attorney must bring a separate
declaratory relief action in order to have the amount and priority of his lien
determined.
 
The Court of Appeals, however, did not stop there.  It went on to entertain exactly what a trial
court should do when faced with these competing lien claims.  Of course, if the trial court simply holds
that the attorney’s contractual lien should be ignored, it is possible or even
likely that the other judgment creditors will collect on their lien, leaving
nothing for the attorney to collect on once the value of his lien is
determined.  
 
The Court noted that CCP §708.470 provides that the trial court “may”
order the judgment debtor’s rights to money or property under the judgment be
applied to the satisfaction of the judgment creditors’ lien.  The Court found this language creates
discretion on the part of the trial court. 
The Court concluded:
Given the importance of attorney contractual liens, as exemplified by
the public policy concerns expressed in Cetenko, we conclude that when a trial
court presented with an application under section 708.470 has notice of an
attorney's claim of a contractual lien against the proceeds of the judgment
that, if valid, would have priority over the judgment lien that is the subject
of the application, the trial court must take all relevant
circumstances—including the potential existence of a senior lien—into account
in exercising its discretion whether to grant or deny the application.
Moreover, the court must bear in mind that the party making the application
bears the burden of persuading the court the application should be granted and
the judgment proceeds applied to satisfy the judgment creditor's lien,
notwithstanding the attorney's potentially senior claim of a lien on those
proceeds.
 
The Brown Court went on to discuss a number of factors the trial court
should consider in determining whether to exercise its discretion to grant a
judgment creditor’s application to apply the judgment to the lien.  Notably, the Brown Court discussed at length
the lack of prior precedent on this matter, which lack of precedent would have
caused the attorney to not realize he needed to file a separate action for
declaratory relief to enforce his lien.
 
Buchalter no doubt has the advantage of prior precedent; Brown was
decided nearly twenty years ago and remains good law.  That said, Buchalter’s right to fees in any
amount did not accrue until the Court granted the attorneys’ fees motion, which
happened on 9/28/23.  The judgment creditors
filed this motion on 10/30/23, only a month later, giving Buchalter minimal
time to file a declaratory relief action in the interim.
 
The Court is inclined to find it must permit Buchalter time to file a
declaratory relief action before it grants judgment creditors’ request for
relief in the amount of his asserted lien. 
The remaining issue is what amount of the judgment, if any, the Court
should permit judgment creditors to have applied to their judgment effective
immediately.  
 
It appears all parties concede the principal amount of the judgment,
$118,965.95 should be applied to moving parties’ judgment lien.  The Court has not located any argument
concerning the award of costs, which is in the amount of $70,247.01, and therefore
it appears this amount should also be applied to the judgment lien.  Remaining at issue is the attorneys’ fees
award of $473,669.18.  Judgment
Creditors, in reply, contend Buchalter admitted, during meet and confer communications,
that $408,000 applies to this action, and the remainder does not.  Additionally, Buchalter stated that
$451,113.88 of the award remains owed by Forde to Buchalter; apparently the
other portion has already been paid.  Moving
parties’ attorney filed a declaration in support of the reply, wherein he
states that Buchalter admitted, in a letter, that $408,000 is owed in connection
with this action.  The actual correspondence
is not attached.  Even the portions of
the correspondence cited, however, state that $18,000 was incurred in a separate
BK matter, and the remainder was for post-judgment collection efforts in this
case and for fees awarded on appeal in October of 2021.  It appears the appellate fees and post-judgment
collection fees would be part of the attorney lien asserted in this action and,
at most, $18,000 is not in dispute.  
 
The Court, on balance, is inclined to grant the motion in the amount of
$118,965.95 (the principal amount) + $70,247.01 (the costs amount) + $18,000
(the amount Buchalter concedes was not incurred in connection with the instant
action), for a total of $207,212.96.
 
The Court sets an OSC re: status of establishing Buchalter’s lien for
six months from now, on Thursday, 7/11/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The Court expected Buchalter to take immediate
steps to finalize the priority and amount of its lien if it wishes to continue
to oppose the moving parties’ rights to assert their lien against the judgment in
this case.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion is granted in part.  Pursuant
to CCP §708.740, the Court exercises its discretion and finds Forde’s rights to
collect $207,212.96 in connection with the judgment in this lawsuit must be
applied toward satisfaction of the moving parties’ lien.  Pursuant to §708.410, the Court Clerk is
instructed to endorse on the Amended Judgment a statement of the existence of
the subject lien at the time it was created, 8/04/22 at 9:50 a.m.
 
This ruling is without prejudice to the moving parties’ right to seek
to have additional amounts of the judgment applied to satisfaction of their
lien if Buchalter does not take steps to have the priority and amount of his
lien finally established.  
 
Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   