 Case Number:  21LBCV00555    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Michael Colbert filed
this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach, Michael Erdeiji, Joel Cook,
and William Jarman for discrimination and related claims.  Plaintiff alleges he was employed by the City
in its police department, of which the individual defendants were officers, and
alleges he was the victim of ongoing and systemic racial discrimination (Plaintiff
is African American).  
 
On 9/05/23, Plaintiff filed his
operative Fourth Amended Complaint.  The
4AC includes causes of action for harassment in violation of FEHA and failure
to investigate in violation of FEHA.  The
harassment cause of action is pled against the City and Erdelji, and the
failure to investigate cause of action is pled only against the City.  Cook and Jarman have been dismissed from the action.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication (Defendant, Erdelji)

Standard on Summary
     Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.         Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff purports to object to
various facts in the separate statement. 
His objections violate CRC 3.1354(b), which states, “Objections to
specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right column
of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the objections
must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement.”  Plaintiff failed to file objections in
compliance with Rule 3.1354, and therefore the Court declines to rule on the purported
objections.
 
Defendant filed objections with his
reply papers.  The objections are
overruled.  The Court has considered all
evidence submitted with the moving and opposition papers in ruling on this motion.    
 

Initial Note re:
     Summary Adjudication

Defendant’s motion contains an alternative
request for summary adjudication of the first cause of action pled against
him.  Because there is only one cause of
action pled against Moving Defendant, it is not clear why summary adjudication
is being sought in the alternative; an order granting summary adjudication of
the first cause of action would be tantamount to an order granting summary judgment
on the complaint.  The Court is therefore
not entertaining the alternative motion for summary adjudication.  
 

Law Governing Harassment

To prove racial or ethnic
harassment, plaintiffs must establish that they were subjected to offensive
comments or other abusive conduct that were clearly based on plaintiffs' race
or ethnicity and were sufficiently “severe” or “pervasive” to alter the conditions
of their employment.  Aguilar v. Avis
Rent A Car System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 130.  
 
Because the employer cloaks a
supervisor with authority over the victim, even a single act by a supervisor
may be severe enough to alter the conditions of employment. Thus, when a
supervisor makes a single racial slur, it exacerbates the severity of the remark
and may create a hostile work environment. 
 “Perhaps no single act can more
quickly alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working
environment … than the use of an [unambiguous] racial epithet … by a supervisor
in the presence of his subordinates.”  Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
30, 36
 
Gov Code 12923(e) provides,
“Harassment cases are rarely appropriate for disposition on summary judgment.
In that regard, the Legislature affirms the decision in Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243 and its observation that hostile working
environment cases involve issues ‘not determinable on paper.’”
 

Supervisorial Capacity

As noted above, while harassment by
a mere co-worker must be severe and pervasive, the standard is lower if the harassment
comes from a supervisor.  Defendant’s
fact 5 states, “Officer Erdeliji’s title was Chief pilot but, that was not a
supervisory position, and he was not a supervisor.”  Defendant supports fact 5 with his own
declaration, ¶7, wherein he states, “To be clear, Michael Colbert and I were
almost always co-workers, except for periods of time where (sic) Michael
Colbert served as Acting Sergeant. It is true I was designated the Chief Pilot
by                                                                                                                                                    the
Long Beach Police Department. But the designation of Chief Pilot was not a
supervisory position and did not provide any authority. I did not receive any
extra pay for being Chief Pilot. As a Chief Pilot, I did not sign off on any of
Michael Colbert’s performance evaluations. I never promoted or demoted him from
any position. Nor did I have the authority to do so. I had no authority to fire
him or to retain him, or to give him a raise or to cut his pay; or to transfer
him or to not transfer him or to issue him a performance evaluation or to sign
off on one. We were co-workers at all times with essentially equal rank.”  Erdelji therefore met his moving burden to show
he was not a supervisor.  
 
Plaintiff contends this fact is
disputed, and contends Erdelji had authority and discretion to direct,
transfer, discipline, discharge employees, and recommend the above
actions.  Plaintiff cites the deposition
testimony of numerous other officers, Erdelji’s deposition testimony, and Plaintiff’s
own deposition testimony and declaration. 
Defendant, in reply, contends the evidence cited does not show Erdelji
had any of those powers.  
 
The Court has searched the entirety
of Plaintiff’s evidence for the word “discipline,” which appears 43 times in
the document.  The Court reviewed each of
the 43 instances where the word “discipline” was used, and never once did the testimony
surrounding the word state or even suggest that Erdelji had the power to
discipline other employees.  Plaintiff’s
declaration does not meaningfully articulate Plaintiff’s position on this issue.  
 
Plaintiff’s declaration in
opposition to the City’s motion, however, details this issue at length.  Plaintiff declares, at ¶2 of his declaration,
that Erdelji, as the Chief Pilot, had the authority to force a transfer by
refusing to sign a pilot’s log book, re-assign a pilot by refusing to sign a
pilot’s log book, and discipline a pilot by refusing to sign a pilot’s log book.  Plaintiff also explains that the Chief Pilot
was able to initiate discipline actions under the guise of safety
breaches.  
 
While it would have been preferable
for this evidence to have been included in opposition to Erdelji’s motion, and
not just the City’s motion, the Court finds this evidence is sufficient to
raise a triable issue of material fact concerning whether Erdelji was a
supervisor under Gov Code §12926(t), which states, “’Supervisor’ means any
individual having the authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire,
transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or
discipline other employees, or the responsibility to direct them, or to adjust
their grievances, or effectively to recommend that action, if, in connection
with the foregoing, the exercise of that authority is not of a merely routine
or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment.”
 
Thus, the Court will apply the
lower standard that applies to supervisors when determining, below, whether the
evidence is sufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning
whether Erdelji’s alleged harassment was sufficiently severe and pervasive to
support a claim under FEHA.
 

Severe and Pervasive

Defendant’s fact 6 states, “At no
time did Erdelji ever harass Plaintiff, whether based on race or any other
status.”  This fact is clearly disputed.  By way of example, Erdelji admits, at fact
72, that he is accused of having stated, in response to the mass shooting in Texas
in 2019, “at least it was only Mexicans.” 
This is clearly an inappropriate and vile race-based statement.  The Court has reviewed the entirety of the
119 purportedly undisputed facts submitted in Defendant’s separate
statement.  Myriad facts are disputed,
including facts concerning whether Plaintiff and Defendant were close
friends.  The Court finds the evidence,
when taken as a whole, could lead a juror to determine Defendant’s acts toward
Plaintiff were severe and pervasive.  By way
of example, referring to Plaintiff and Defendant as “Black Mike” and “white
Mike,” repeatedly and often, in connection with the other allegations,
including a comment that the Governor of Virginia should not be judged for
having worn blackface twenty years ago, tends to show a severe and pervasive
pattern of harassment.   
When all of the foregoing is read
in connection with Gov Code §12923(e), which makes clear that claims for
harassment can rarely be determined on paper, the Court finds summary judgment must
be denied.  
 
3.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication (City)

Grounds for Motion

The City contends it is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on the first cause of action for harassment because
the harassment complained of was not severe or pervasive, and also because it
did not know or have reason to know of any harassment.  It contends it is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law on the second cause of action for failure to prevent harassment because
the underlying claim for harassment fails and also because the City took reasonable
steps to prevent harassment.
 

Evidentiary Objections

Again, Plaintiff improperly
included objections in his separate statement. 
The Court again declines to rule on them.  
 
The City submitted objections with
its reply papers.  The City’s first and
second objections are overruled.  A ruling
on the remaining objections would not change the outcome of the ruling on the
motion, and therefore the Court declines to rule on the remaining
objections.  CCP §437c(q).  
 

Harassment Not Severe
     or Pervasive

The motion for adjudication of the
first cause of action on the ground that the harassment was not severe or
pervasive is denied for the reasons set forth above.  
 

Lack of Knowledge

Pursuant to Gov Code §12940(j)(1),
an employer is only liable for a non-supervisory employee’s harassment if the employer
knew or should have known about the harassment. 
Defendant’s fact 4 is that Erdelji was not a supervisor.  This fact is disputed for the reasons set forth
above.  The Court therefore need not rule
on the issue of whether the evidence shows knowledge, as knowledge is not
necessary when the offending employee was acting in a supervisory capacity.  The City is strictly liable for its supervisory
employee’s harassing conduct.  
 

Failure to Prevent

The City’s arguments in its motion
for summary adjudication of its second cause of action, found at page 19, line
20 through page 20, line 5, are entirely derivative of its arguments re: the
first cause of action.  The caption of
the argument also states that the City took reasonable steps to prevent
harassment and discrimination, but the body of the argument does not actually
articulate anything in this regard.  The motion
for summary adjudication of this cause of action is therefore also denied.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendant Erdelji’s motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is denied because the Court finds there are
triable issues of material fact concerning whether he was acting as a
supervisor and also whether his complained-of conduct was sufficiently severe
and pervasive to support a claim for harassment.  The City’s motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is denied for the same reasons. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.