 Case Number:  23LBCV00815    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Fred Howard Newkirk
filed this action against Defendants, Henry Van Gieson and Memorial Care
Medical Group on 5/04/23.  His complaint
includes causes of action for medical malpractice, concealment, and breach of
fiduciary duty.  Plaintiff alleges he was
treated by Defendants for varicose veins, and developed life-threatening blood
clots as a result of Defendants’ care and treatment.  
 
Plaintiff filed a doe amendment
naming Memorial Cardiology Medical Group, Inc. as Doe 1 on 7/31/23.  Plaintiff dismissed Memorial Care Medical
Group as a defendant on 10/02/23.  
 
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Legal
Standard
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet and
Confer
Defense Counsel declares he emailed Plaintiff’s attorney and requested
an in-person or telephonic meet and confer, but Plaintiff’s attorney failed to respond.  Defendant therefore satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.  
 
c.     Analysis
Defendant demurs to the second
cause of action for concealment and third cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty (mis-identified as one for intentional or negligent misrepresentation
in the demurrer).  Defendant correctly
notes that this is a garden-variety medical malpractice complaint, and that it
cannot and should not be turned into a claim for intentional tort
violations.  See Cobs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 246.  
 
The demurrer is sustained.  In light of the lack of opposition, leave to
amend is denied.  
3.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff’s complaint includes a
prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant moves
to strike the prayer, correctly noting that Plaintiff failed to comply with CCP
§425.13, which requires a noticed motion prior to seeking imposition of punitive
damages against a health care provider.  The
motion to strike is granted.  In light of
the lack of opposition, and because this defect could not be cured absent a
noticed motion, leave to amend is denied. 

 
4.     Conclusion
and Final Notes
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.  Defendant is
ordered to file an answer to the complaint, with the second and third causes of
action and all challenged references to punitive damages deemed stricken, within
ten days.
The Court notes that Co-Defendant, Memorial Cardiology Medical Group,
Inc. has a demurrer and motion to strike scheduled for 6/04/24.  The Court asks Plaintiff to meaningfully
participate in meet and confer discussions prior to the hearing and to dismiss
the challenged claims if he does not intend to oppose the demurrer.  The Court notes that this hearing could have
been avoided if Plaintiff had complied with his meet and confer
obligations.  
 
5.    
Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there is a CMC on calendar today
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the conference and hearing on the demurrer and motion to
strike.  