  Case Number:  22TRCV00882    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer without Motion to StrikeMoving Parties: Defendants Frank Morales, Brady Byrnes, Matthew Goder, Matthew Stoner, Jeanette Gibbs, and American Airlines, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff David ShawRuling: The demurrers are SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for Harassment WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Moving party is to give notice.The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers for each defendant. As the legal issue is identical for the parties, the court issues this ruling as to each of the separately filed demurrers.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff filed the Complaint on September 29, 2022. After the parties met and conferred, Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed on June 2, 2023. After Defendants successfully demurred to the SAC, Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint was filed on January 29, 2024.Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was employed by American Airlines (“AA”) for five years. Plaintiff was disparately treated, retaliated against, harassed, and wrongfully terminated from his employment due to his sexual orientation. Plaintiff alleges the followingcauses of action: 1. Discrimination in Violation of FEHA – Disparate Treatment; 2. Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; 3. Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; 4. Harassment in Violation of FEHA. Plaintiff sues American Airlines, Inc. and individuals.On March 14, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrers. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed amended oppositions. On April 19, 2024, Defendant filed replies.DISCUSSIONWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of L. A. Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Super. Ct. (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action of FEHA harassment.Meet and ConferDefendants did not submit evidence that they met and conferred prior to filing the instant demurrer. But a determination by the Court that the meet and confer process was insufficient will not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)FEHA HarassmentTo establish a prima facie claim of harassment, a plaintiff must show the following: (1) plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on a protected characteristic; (4) the harassment complained of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 608.) FEHA liability for harassment extends to any employee of a covered employer. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(3).) Employers are automatically liable for harassment committed by a manager or supervisor. (Cal. Code. Regs, tit. 2, § 11019(b)(3).)Harassment is something that communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee. (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706.) It involves verbal and physical conduct, sexual or nonsexual, that creates a hostile or offensive working environment. (Cal. Code. Regs., tit.2, § 11019(b).) Harassment must be of a repeated, routine, or generalized nature when the harassing conduct is not severe. (See Lyle v. Warner Bros. Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.) Harassment that is occasional, isolated, or sporadic is insufficient. (See id.)Plaintiff alleges, “When CARVATTA became Regional Director, CARVATTA noticeably treated SHAW differently than his Co-Operation manager: Hera Jahng, a heterosexual individual, discriminating against the homosexual management over the heterosexual management colleagues. CARVATTA and STONER conspicuously dismissed SHAW’s recommendations and ideas and talked over him during staff meetings, undermining him. SHAW openly identified as gay. The discrimination and harassment did not end there. It continued sufficiently pervasive andchanged the condition of employment, creating an abusive working environment.” (Second Amended Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Plaintiff also alleges that defendants dismissed Plaintiff’s concerns regarding his perceived treatment, expressed contempt about Plaintiff, questioned Plaintiff about other employees, questioned Plaintiff about complaints levied against him, and made personnel decisions that were not in his favor. (Second Amended Compl., ¶¶ 20, 21, 34, 36, 38-41, 46-51, 118-133.)The Court does not find that the above allegations describe facts which could constitute harassment conduct. Rather, the key “facts” are merely legal conclusions. There is no allegation that any of the defendants communicated an offensive message to Plaintiff about his sexual orientation. Nor are there any facts asserting verbal or physical conduct by any person which communicated an offensive message to plaintiff. As a consequence, Plaintiff has not adequately alleged that defendants’ conduct was related to his sexual orientation.Because the Court finds that the alleged conduct is not harassment, the Court need not determine whether it is severe or pervasive.Leave to AmendIt is well established that denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment. (Eghtesad v. State Farm General Ins. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 406, 411.) In this case, a demurrer had previously been sustained as to this same issue with leave to amend. As the court finds plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to overcome this demurrer, leave to amend is denied.CONCLUSIONConsidering the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the FEHA harassment claim WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.