 Case Number:  24SMCV05092    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  1 Background
 
On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff Maria Angelica
Licea filed this employment action against CCC Westwood, Inc., Alberto
Hernandez, and Freddy Doe asserting four causes of action under FEHA as well as
causes of action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Motion 
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion seeking to transfer the action to the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. 
 
The motion is unopposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1005.) 
 
Motion
to Transfer Between Districts
 
Standard

 
LASC
Local Rules, rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases
from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated
grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the
convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of
justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local Rules is
discretionary. 
 
Because
the same language appears in both LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) and Code of Civil Procedure section 397(c), Department 1 applies the
case authority related to Section 397. Accordingly, a party acting under the
authority of Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) bears the same
burden of proof if it seeks a district transfer. (See Lieberman v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 396, 401.) That
burden of proof calls for affidavits that contain more than generalities and
conclusions. (See Hamilton v Superior Court (1974) 37 Cal.
App.3d 418, 424.) Such affidavits or declarations, like those for change of
venue under Code Civ. Proc. section 397(c), should show the name of each
witness, the expected testimony of each witness, and facts showing why the
attendance of said witnesses at trial would be inconvenient or why the ends of
justice would be served by a transfer. (See
Stute v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal. App.
3d Supp. 11, 17.) Convenience to non-party witnesses alone is the key to the
success of the motion, and not the convenience of parties or employees of
parties. (Ibid.) 
 
The
Action Was Filed in the Incorrect District
 
Plaintiff
seeks to transfer this action from the Santa Monica Courthouse in the West
District to the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central District. Plaintiff
contends the case was filed in an incorrect district based upon Plaintiff’s
elections on the civil case cover sheet and addendum.
 
LASC
Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(A) contains mandatory filing rules which have no
application to Plaintiff’s complaint, as the case does not fall within any of
the enumerated case types: personal injury, asbestos, class action, probate,
Labor Code section 98.2, writ of prohibition or mandate, emancipation,
adoption, or parentage. If none of the mandatory provisions apply, an unlimited
civil case may always be filed in the Central District at a plaintiff’s
election.  (LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B)
(“Except as set forth in subsection (A) above, [Mandatory Filing], . . .  an unlimited civil or Family Code action may
be filed in the Central District . . .”).) 
 
In “Step 4” of the civil case cover sheet addendum where the filing party is asked to “[c]heck
the appropriate boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for the type of
action that you have selected. Enter the address, which is the basis for the
filing location including zip code,” Plaintiff
selected Reason 2, which correlates with “[p]ermissive filing in Central
District.” Plaintiff listed the relevant address as 2005 Westwood Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90025. In “Step
5” of the civil case cover sheet addendum, where the filing party is asked to
certify the proper filing location, Plaintiff’s counsel indicated the Central
District was the appropriate filing location under the applicable Local Rules. 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates the case was mistakenly assigned to the Santa Monica
Courthouse, rather than Plaintiff’s chosen filing location in the Central
District. (Weinman Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, 8.) 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff demonstrated the action was filed in an incorrect district and the
motion is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Transfer District is GRANTED and 24SMCV05092 is ordered reassigned to
the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior
Court. 
 
Notice of case reassignment shall issue shortly. 
 
Clerk to give notice. 