 Case Number:  24NWCV02547    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  1 Background
 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiffs Erika Gonzalez
and Michael Gonzalez filed this action against Hacienda La Puente Unified School
District arising out of a slip and fall incident. The complaint alleges
Plaintiff Erika Gonzalez fell down a steep, wet hill while walking her children
to school at Los Molinos Elementary School; 3112 Las Marias Ave,
Hacienda Heights, CA 91745. Plaintiffs allege Plaintiff Erika Gonzalez
fractured her left ankle during the fall and Plaintiff Michael Gonzalez, her
husband, asserts a claim for loss of consortium. Defendant was allegedly aware
of the dangerous condition on its property and failed to adequately warn parents
or remediate the dangerous condition. 
 
Motion 
 
On October 14, 2024, Defendant Hacienda
La Puente Unified School District filed the instant motion seeking to transfer
the action to the Pomona Courthouse in the East District of the Los Angeles
Superior Court. 
 
Invalid Proof of Service
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1013b, a valid proof of electronic service must “set[] forth the exact title of
the document served and filed in the cause.” 
 
The proof of service attached to Defendant’s
motion fails to comply with this requirement as it states: “I electronically
served the foregoing document(s) described as [DOC TITLE] on the interested
parties in this action . . .” Defendant’s failure to alter their template
renders the proof of service invalid. 
 
The motion is unopposed and the time to file
a valid proof of service has expired. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1300(c) (“Proof of
service of the moving papers must be filed no later than five court days before
the time appointed for the hearing.”).) To satisfy due process, the Court shall
not entertain a motion absent evidence of proper service. (See
generally, McMillin v. Eare (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 893, 913 (describing
the “right to notice, which is an element of due process.”).)
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Hacienda La Puente Unified School District’s Motion to Transfer is taken
OFF-CALENDAR for lack of proper service. 
 
Clerk to give notice. 