  Case Number:  22TRCV01287    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
CALSAFE
  RESEARCH CENTER, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01287




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
OVERSEAS
  FOOD DISTRIBUTION, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 14, 2024                       
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff CalSafe Research Center, Inc.
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Approve Proposition
65 Settlement and Stipulated Consent Judgment
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  See Stipulated Consent Judgment.
BACKGROUND
On November 18, 2022, CalSafe
Research Center, Inc. filed a complaint for civil penalties and injunctive
relief against Overseas Food Distribution, LLC for violation of Proposition 65.

LEGAL AUTHORITY
Health and Safety Code § 25249.7(f)(4)
requires court approval of all settlements (other than voluntary dismissals) of
actions under the Act brought by a person in the public interest. The court can
approve the settlement only if it finds that:
(A) Any
warning required by the settlement complies with this chapter;
(B)  Any
award of attorneys’ fees is reasonable under California law; and
(C)  Any
penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b).
 
Plaintiff
has the burden of producing sufficient evidence to sustain each required
finding. Health & Saf. Code § 25249.7(f)(5). “In
the context of Proposition 65 litigation, necessarily brought to vindicate the
public interest, the trial court also must ensure that its judgment serves the
public interest.” Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 46, 62.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff seeks approval of the
parties’ settlement pursuant to Health and Safety Code §25249.7(f)(4).  Plaintiff states in the motion that the
proposed stipulated consent judgment resolves plaintiff’s allegations that
defendant has exposed individuals to lead from its sales of spices, including Golchin,
Tamarind Paste; Golchin, Cracked Green Olives with Provencal Herbs; Golchin, Green
Thyme, and Golchin, Gound Cinnamon manufactured by defendant that are sold,
distributed, or offered for sale to consumers in California by defendant and
its downstream distributors, private label resellers, and retailers, without
first providing clear and reasonable exposure warnings under Proposition 65
(“Covered Products”).
Plaintiff also asserts that it
mailed to defendant, the Office of the California Attorney General, and each of
California’s district attorney, city attorney, and/or prosecutors’ offices a
60-day Notice of Violation dated April 13, 2022, July 29, 2022, and September
9, 2022.  Plaintiff contends that on
October 12, 2023, the parties finalized the terms of the settlement and
mutually executed a proposed consent judgment, which plaintiff submitted to the
Attorney General on October 20, 2023. 
1.      The Warning’s Compliance
“Whenever a clear and reasonable
warning is required under Section 25249.6 of the Act, the method employed to
transmit the warning must be reasonably calculated, considering the alternative
methods available under the circumstances, to make the warning message
available to the individual prior to exposure. The message must clearly
communicate that the chemical in question is known to the state to cause
cancer, or birth defects or other reproductive harm. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to preclude a person from providing warnings other than
those specified in this article that satisfy the requirements of this article,
or to require that warnings be provided separately to each exposed individual.”
 Health & Saf. Code § 25601. 
“Reformulation
of a product, . . . or other changes in the defendant’s practices that reduce
or eliminate the exposure to a listed chemical, in lieu of the provision of a
warning, are [also] presumed to confer a significant benefit on the public.” 11
Cal. Code Regs., § 3201(b)(2).
The
proposed consent judgment states that for each “Covered Product,” defendant
agrees to undertake, or cause to be undertaken on its behalf, either:  (a) reformulation of the Covered Product to
bring it within the Proposition exemption or (b) to provide a warning, stating
either Option 1:  WARNING:  Consuming this product can expose you to
lead, which is known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth
defects or other reproductive harm; or Option 2:  WARNING: 
Cancer and Reproductive Harm, with a citation to the P65Warnings
website.  See Joseph R. Manning decl., ¶10; Exhibit B – a copy of
the Stipulated Consent Judgment, Sections 3.1-3.4.
The
court finds that the warning(s) required by the settlement complies with
Proposition 65.
2.  Reasonableness of Award of Attorney’s Fees
and Costs
Plaintiff
explains that defendant agreed to pay $19,575 to plaintiff’s counsel for
plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs. 
Plaintiff asserts that its attorneys spent in excess of 59 hours and
accrued $36,845.39 in fees and costs, beginning in March 2022 through the
hearing on the motion.  Manning decl., ¶¶15, 20. Plaintiff
is not seeking any fee enhancement in the interest of finalizing the
settlement.  Manning decl., ¶21.
The
court finds that the requested attorney’s fees and costs are reasonable.
2.      Reasonableness
of the Penalty
Any civil penalty assessed under
Health and Safety Code § 25249.7(b)
must take into consideration certain factors including the following:
(A) The nature and extent of the
violation;
(B)  The number of, and severity of, the
violations;
(C)  The economic effect of the penalty
on the violator;
(D) Whether the violator took good
faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time these measures were
taken;
(E)  The willfulness of the violator’s
misconduct;
(F)  The deterrent effect that the
imposition of the penalty would have on both the violator and the regulated
community as a whole; and
(G) Any other factor that justice may
require.
The Attorney General promulgated
guidelines for the “other factors” to be considered within the meaning of
Health and Safety Code section 25249.7(b)(2)(G). Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11 § 3203 states: “The following factors
are ‘[other factors] which just may require’ to be considered . . . .: (a) A
settlement with little or no penalty may be entirely appropriate . . . . (b)
Where a settlement provides additional payments to an entity in lieu of a civil
penalty . . . such payments may be proper ‘offset’ to the penalty amount but
are only proper if the following requirements are met: (1) the funded
activities have a nexus to the basis for the litigation, i.e., the funds should
address the same public harm as that allegedly caused by the defendant(s) in
the particular case; (2) the recipient should be an entity that is accountable,
i.e., is able to demonstrate how the funds will be spent and can assure that
the funds are being spent for the proper, designated purpose; (3) if the entity
receiving the funds will in turn make grants of funds to other entities for
specified purposes, the method of selection of the ultimate recipient of
settlement funds must be set forth in the settlement agreement.” 
Plaintiff contends that the parties
agreed to a civil penalty of $2,175, with 75% earmarked for the State of
California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment and 25% earmarked
for plaintiff.  Plaintiff asserts that
the parties agreed on the civil penalty after settlement discussions over a
period of several months, which included substantial legal and scientific
research and analysis, numerous emails and telephone calls between counsel,
during which the parties exchanged product information, empirical data,
laboratory results, and other information relevant to settlement.  Plaintiff explains how the statutory factors
support a finding that the civil penalty is appropriate.  Manning decl., ¶¶11-13.
            In consideration of the factors
above, the court finds the proposed penalty of $2,175 is reasonable.
3.      Public
Interest
The court also finds that the settlement
is in the public interest. According to settlement guidelines by the Office of
the Attorney General, “changes in the defendant’s practices which reduce or
eliminate the exposure to a listed chemical, in lieu of the provision of a
warning, constitute a sufficient showing of public benefit.”  Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, §3201(b)(2).  Here, as stated above, defendant has agreed to
reformulate the Covered Products to bring them within the Proposition exemption
or to provide a warning.  These actions
would reduce, if not eliminate, the public’s exposure to lead from the Covered
Product. 
Thus, the court approves the
settlement and Stipulated Consent Judgment.
The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  See stipulated consent judgment. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.