 Case Number:  23TRCV04009    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MAHIN
  GOLCHIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04009




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LAX
  PHYSICAL MEDICINE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 14,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants LAX Physical
Medicine and Matthew Araghi
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Mahin Golchin
Demurrer to Complaint
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED on the grounds
of uncertainty within 20 days leave to amend granted.
BACKGROUND
            On December 6, 2023, plaintiff Mahin
Golchin filed a complaint against LAX Physical Medicine, LAX Physical Therapy,
and Matthew Araghi for general negligence; and against DJO Global, Inc. for
product liability.  
            On January 26, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment designating Doe 1 as Matthew Szkalak.
            The Complaint appears to attempt to assert
two causes of action.  Only the First Cause
of Action, styled as “General Negligence,” is the subject of this demurrer.  The demurrer is brought by defendants LAX Physical
Medicine and Matthew Araghi.  Yet the
allegations in the First Cause of Action fail to include any factual
allegations regarding LAX Physical Medicine. 
Instead, the Complaint alleges “at all relevant times, Plaintiff Mahin
Golchin was a patient of LAX Physical Therapy, under the supervision of Matthew
Araghi…”  Thus, it appears that there are
no allegations made against defendant LAX Physical Medicine.
            Further, the entire balance of the
factual allegations state:
“… the Defendants, and each of
them, agreed to perform and undertook to perform for Plaintiff all services
necessary for Plaintiff's care, which included, but was not limited to,
observation, attention, examinations, evaluations, diagnosis, care and treatment
of Plaintiff Golchin and in so doing, the Defendants and each of them,
established a relationship with Plaintiff Golchin giving rise to each
Defendant's duty to Plaintiff to provide skillful management of her health
conditions, including but not limited to observation, attention, evaluation,
examinations, diagnosis, care and treatment of Plaintiff Golchin Defendants,
and each of them, and by Defendants' employees, and each of them, upon
Plaintiff Golchin, negligently failed to conform to the standard of care both
with respect to the care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff Golchin and with
respect to providing to Plaintiff Golchin information about the risks and
hazards, or other harmful consequences, that might follow from the treatment,
or diagnosis the Defendants, and each of them, planned for Plaintiff Golchin.
Defendants, each of them, and by
Defendants' employees, and each of them, as a proximate result of the said
conduct of the Defendants, and each of them, as Plaintiff Golchin, was injured
and sustained damages as a direct legal cause of Defendants' negligence and but
for the negligence of Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff would not have
been injured and sustained damages. At all relevant times, each of Defendants'
tortious acts and omissions, as alleged herein, were done in concert with one
another in furtherance of their common design and agreement to operate their
business. Moreover, the Defendants aided and abetted each other in
accomplishing the acts and omissions alleged herein. Plaintiff hereby demands a
jury trial.”
Nothing
other than conclusory language is contained in the First Cause of Action.  The reader is left to ask “what is this case
about?”
            The Court shall sustain the demurrer
as uncertain.  If Plaintiff is to force
LAX Physical Medicine to defend this suit, at a minimum defendant is entitled
to a pleading that does more than identify LAX Physical Medicine as a
defendant.  The Court is also sustaining
the demurrer on uncertainty grounds as no facts are included other than conclusions.  Plaintiff should plead factually what this
purported care was and what the claimed negligence involved, at least with
something more than this verbiage quoted above. 
What services were provided?  What
care was rendered?
 
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED on grounds
of uncertainty with 20 day sleave to amend.
            Moving party to give notice.