  Case Number:  22PSCV01950    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Costs, Sanctions, and Attorney
Fees
Respondent: Defendant Cesar
Armando Quijivix
Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Have Requests for Admission, Set One, Deemed Admitted and
Request for Costs, Sanctions, and Attorney Fees
Respondent: Defendant Cesar
Armando Quijivix
Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One and Request for Costs, Sanctions, and Attorneys Fees
Respondent: Defendant Cesar
Armando Quijivix
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant
Cesar Armando Quijivix is ordered to serve code-complaint responses on
Plaintiffs without objection within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ Request for Sanctions is GRANTED against
Defendant and Sanctions are awarded in the amount of $336.65, payable within 30
days of the issuance of this order.
Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Have Requests for Admission, Set One, Deemed Admitted is
GRANTED and Sanctions are awarded against Defendant Cesar Armando Quijivix in
the amount of $336.65, payable within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda
Oseguera’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Cesar
Armando Quijivix is ordered to serve code-complaint responses on Plaintiffs
without objection within 30 days of the issuance of this order. Furthermore, Plaintiffs’
Request for Sanctions is GRANTED against Defendant and Sanctions are awarded in
the amount of $336.65, payable within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In December
2020, Plaintiffs Erika Michelle Mesa and Rosalinda Oseguera allege Defendant
Cesar Armando Quijivix injured them in a motor vehicle collision that occurred
on Interstate 210 in San Dimas.
On November
21, 2022, Mesa and Oseguera filed a complaint against Quijivix and Does 1-25,
alleging (1) general negligence and (2) motor vehicle negligence.
On
November 9, 2023, Mesa and Oseguera filed the present motions. A hearing on
their motions is set for December 13 with a post-mediation status
conference/trial setting conference set for June 11, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Mesa
and Oseguera move to compel Quijivix to respond to discovery requests including
form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for production of
documents, and requests for admission. In addition, Mesa and Oseguera seek
sanctions in each motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (b) allows the propounding
party to file a motion to compel responses to requests for production if a
response has not been received. Similarly, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.290, subdivision (b), the propounding party may file a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories if a response has not been received. In
both cases, a response must be provided within 30 days of service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); § 2031.260, subd. (a).) If responses are
untimely, the responding party waives objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a); 2031.300, subd. (a).) The court shall impose monetary
sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
such orders to compel absent substantial justification or other circumstances
that make imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd.
(c); 2031.300, subd. (c).) While the imposition of sanctions is mandatory, the
court “has discretion to reduce the amount of fees and costs requested as a
discovery sanction in order to reach a reasonable award.” (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791 (Cornerstone).)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivisions (b) and (c) allow the
requesting party to file a motion requesting that the truth of any matters
specified in the request for admissions be deemed admitted unless the party to
whom the requests have been directed has served a response that is in
substantial compliance before the hearing. A response to requests for
admissions is timely if provided within 30 days of service. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250.) Monetary sanctions must be imposed pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c) for failure to timely respond to
requests for admissions but, as noted previously, the court has discretion to
reduce requested sanctions to make them reasonable. (Cornerstone, supra,
56 Cal.App.5th at p. 791.)
Discussion
On June
6, 2023, Mesa and Oseguera served discovery requests on Quijivix, including special
and form interrogatories, requests for production of documents, and requests
for admission. (Elechyan Decl., ¶ 6.) At an informal discovery conference held
on September 26, the court ordered Quijivix to provide verified responses to Mesa
and Oseguera’s discovery requests without objection on or before October 6.
(Elechyan Decl., ¶ 8; 9/26/2023 Minute Order.) Subsequently, Quijivix failed to
provide the required discovery responses. (Elechyan Decl., ¶ 10.) In response
to Mesa and Oseguera’s motions, Quijivix’s counsel filed a declaration stating
counsel has been unable to locate or communicate with Quijivix since June 2023.
(Botros Decl., ¶ 4-10.) But Quijivix’s apparent failure to communicate with
defense counsel does not excuse Quijivix’s responsibility to comply with
discovery obligations. Accordingly, the court GRANTS Mesa and Oseguera’s motions.
Mesa
and Oseguera also request sanctions in the amount of $1,811.65 against Quijivix
and Quijivix’s counsel for each for their motions to compel. Accordingly,
utilizing a lodestar approach and in view of the totality of the circumstances,
the court awards sanctions against Quijivix and finds reasonable attorney fees
and costs in the total of amount of $336.65 for each motion to compel ($275 for
one hour drafting the motion and fifteen minutes attending the hearing at an
hourly rate of $220 plus $61.65 in filing fees). Furthermore, based on the
declaration of Quijivix’s counsel, the court declines to award sanctions
against Quijivix’s counsel.