 Case Number:  23LBCV02241    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 On 6/27/24, the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend.  The Court ordered Plaintiff to
file his amended complaint within twenty days.
 
On 7/15/24, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Request Extension to File Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff provided evidence that he had been
suffering from serious illness, including hospitalization, and indicated he
needed an additional month to file his Second Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff did not set a hearing date for his
motion, and did not file proof of service of his moving papers on Defendant.
 
On 9/30/24, Defendant filed a
motion to dismiss pursuant to CCP §581(f)(2), which provides for dismissal in
the event a plaintiff fails to amend his complaint within the time ordered by
the Court after a demurrer is sustained. 
On 10/02/24, the Court specially set the motion for hearing on 10/17/24
and ordered Plaintiff to file his SAC on or before 10/17/24.  
 
Plaintiff has not, to date, filed a
Second Amended Complaint.  This is the
case even though Plaintiff declared, on 7/15/24, that he anticipated being able
to do so within one month.  It has now
been more than three months since Plaintiff made his request.  
 
The motion for additional time is
denied.  Plaintiff has made no showing of
inability to file a Second Amended Complaint by the time of the hearing on
these motions.  Plaintiff has not opposed
the motion to dismiss, and it is granted. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 