  Case Number:  23LBCV00373    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     History
of Parties’ Settlement Agreement 
Defendant, Jose Manuel
Armanta-Negrete moves for judgment pursuant to settlement with Plaintiff,
Albert Demetrus Conton.  Defendant
provides evidence that Plaintiff made a policy limits settlement offer to
Defendant on 1/23/23.  The parties agreed
to an extension of time to respond, and on 2/13/23, Defendant, through its
insurance company, accepted the offer. 
Plaintiff has not, since 2/13/23, signed the necessary release to
finalize the settlement, and on 11/08/23, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit (which
was consolidated with another lawsuit arising out of the same automobile
accident).  
 
2.     Motion
to Enforce Settlement
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant moves for an order
enforcing the parties’ settlement and reducing it to a binding judgment.  Defendant seeks relief pursuant to CCP
§664.6.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues the parties’ settlement agreement
cannot be enforced because (a) it contains terms not present in the settlement
offer, and (b) Plaintiff did not personally sign the settlement agreement.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends there
are no new material terms in the proposed final version of the agreement, and
contends the current version of §664.6 does not require the parties to
personally sign the settlement so long as their attorneys do so.  
 
b.     Variation
in Terms
Plaintiff contends Defendant
included two terms in the final version of the settlement, which it seeks to
enforce, which were not in the parties’ agreement.  The first such term is inclusion of the
phrase “their legal representatives or successors” in the release.  In Plaintiff’s demand letter, Plaintiff
included a condition that stated, “No person/entity may be included in the
Release other than your insured and the driver of your insured’s vehicle at the
time of Incident.”  The final settlement,
which Plaintiff refused to sign and which Defendant seeks to enforce, includes
language defining “Releasees” as “Jose Armenta and all others insured under
[the subject policy],” and also includes language barring suit against
Releasees, their legal representatives or successors.  
 
Plaintiff correctly notes, in
opposition to the motion, that the Court cannot enforce a settlement agreement
that contains materially different terms that the terms upon which the parties
agreed.  That said, the parties’
correspondence expressly contemplated Defendant drawing up the final version of
the agreement and release for signature. 
Thus, the Court will deny the motion if and only if it finds the final
version of the agreement contained a material variance from the terms of the
parties’ offer and acceptance correspondence. 

 
It is unclear how this variation in
terms affects Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed
his complaint (23LBCV02142) against Armenta-Negrete, Samuel Vaughan, and Seed
Dynamics, Inc.  Seed Dynamics is alleged
to have been Vaughan’s employer. 
Armenta-Negrete and Vaughan were each driving separate vehicles at the
time of the three-car accident and do not appear to have any relationship to
each other.  Nothing in the final version
of the settlement agreement bars Plaintiff’s suit against Vaughan and/or Seed
Dynamics.  
 
As Defendant correctly notes in the
reply papers, the language at issue is boilerplate and does not appear to
meaningfully change the parties’ settlement agreement at all.  Notably, Plaintiff never corresponded with Defendant
about these concerns prior to filing opposition to this motion.  The Court wishes to hear from Plaintiff, at
the time of the hearing, about how this additional term has materially affected
the parties’ settlement agreement.  If
the Court finds the term in any way affects Plaintiff, the Court will deny the
motion and require Defendant to submit a new settlement agreement to Plaintiff
for signature without the offending language. 
If the Court finds the term does not affect Plaintiff, then the Court
will not deny the motion on this ground.
 
Plaintiff’s second argument is that
the proposed final settlement agreement bars claims by Plaintiff’s spouse.  Defendant, in reply, provides evidence that
Plaintiff is unmarried.  Unless Plaintiff
can provide contrary evidence at the hearing, this contention appears to be a
red herring of no import.  
 
c.     Plaintiff’s
Signature
Plaintiff also argues he did not
personally sign the settlement agreement, and therefore it cannot be enforced
under §664.6.  As Defendant correctly
notes in reply, §664.6 was recently amended to permit the Court to enforce a
settlement agreement with the attorney’s, but not the client’s signature.  This argument therefore also fails.
 
d.     Conclusion
As noted above, the Court will hear
argument at the hearing on the issue of inclusion of third parties in the
release.  If the parties submit on the
tentative, the Court will find against Plaintiff on that issue and will grant
the motion.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they must be prepared to argue the issue of the release
language at the hearing.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.