 Case Number:  23LBCV01851    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 9/17/24.  The
Court continued the hearing to require the parties to meet and confer to
resolve the issues pending between them. 
Specifically, the Court stated:
The hearing on the motion is
continued for one month, to 10/17/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  If the parties resolve their issues, they
must take the motion off calendar using the online reservation system.  If they are unable to resolve their issues,
they must file short (no more than five pages) briefs and declarations
detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument against
imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  They must also file a joint statement of
items in dispute.  The joint statement
must set forth each objection Defendant is asserting (to each PMK designation
and/or request for documents) and each party’s statement of reasons the
objection should be sustained or overruled. 
The parties must ensure their discussion in connection with each issue
is limited solely to that particular issue, and they must not re-state their
general position over and over in a non-specific manner.  
 
The joint statement, briefs and
declarations are due at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
On 10/04/24, Plaintiff filed an
untimely brief, declaration, and separate statement.  The parties did not file a joint
statement.  Defendant has not filed
anything relating to the discovery issues. 
Plaintiff, in the 10/04/24 papers, indicates all issues have been
resolved except imposition of sanctions. 
The Court finds Plaintiff adequately showed Defendant’s conduct caused
Plaintiff to reasonably file the motion and pursue the requested relief.  
 
Plaintiff, in the original notice
of motion, sought sanctions solely against Defendant and not against its
attorney of record.  Plaintiff sought
sanctions in the amount of $6599.42.  The
request is granted in full.  Defendant is
ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through his attorney of record,
in the amount of $6599.42, within twenty days. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 