  Case Number:  22AHCV01400    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



RAYMOND CLARK, an individual,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
CRAIG
  REIBER, an individual; JEANNE REIBER, an individual; and DOES 1 to 50,
  inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 22AHCV01400
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING IN PART DEFENDANT REIBER’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
  SERVED ON PENNY CHAN, MARCIAS GINI & O’CONNELL LLP
 
Date:   October
  16, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
 
 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiff
Raymond Clark (Clark) entered into a transaction to purchase Crescenta Valley
Tile Distributor, Inc. (CV Tile) from Defendants Craig and Jeanne Reiber
(Reibers).
Craig and Jeanne Reiber owned and operated Crescenta Valley
Tile Distributor, Inc. for 30 years. In 2021, they began to look for someone to
sell the business to so they could retire. Clark, after conducting due
diligence, purchased the business. 
This lawsuit is, in essence, a fraud claim. Clark alleges
that: the Reibers misrepresented that the financials had been prepared in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP); that the
financials were accurate; that the reported Accounts Receivable (AR) was
accurate; and that the financials supported the conclusion that there was a
positive cash flow, and the
company would not require additional capital investment by Clark. These
misrepresentations are alleged to have caused Clark to suffer material damages
due to lost investment and opportunity, as well as expenditure of legal and
accounting fees. 
In their cross-complaint, the Reibers allege that from August
to December 2022, Clark breached the agreement in several ways, including:
failing to complete the F Reorganization and lease negotiations: failing to
timely pay business and credit accounts held in the name of Craig Reiber, causing
him to incur substantial debt and harm to his credit; and failing to request a
“true-up” accounting. The Reibers further allege that in December 2022, Clark
informed the Reibers that he would invest no more money
in the company.  He also allegedly refused
to pay a debt of more than $500,000 that was personally guaranteed by Craig Reiber; and he renounced any further obligations
under the contract. Clark also announced he was closing the company, and on
December 29, 2022, he caused the company to file for bankruptcy. 
The operative first amended cross-complaint (FACC) sets forth
the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) repudiation of
contract; (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(4) express indemnity; (5) intentional misrepresentation; (6) negligent
misrepresentation; and (7) untrue statement or omission in connection with the
sale of a security. 
Before the Court is Plaintiff Clark’s motion to
quash a subpoena served on his accountants. As set forth in greater detail
below, the motion is granted in part and denied in part.
          
          II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The Reibers
request that the Court take judicial notice of a screenshot of www.valcoronline/professionals.html.
Additionally, the Reibers request judicial notice of a screenshot of www.valcoronline/clients.html.
Lastly, they request judicial notice of a screenshot of www.valcoronline/about-valcor.html.

The
Reibers have failed to set forth what subsection of Evidence Code 452 applies
to their request for judicial notice. It is unclear which subsection of the
code would apply to these webpages. Therefore, the request for judicial notice
is DENIED. 
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1 provides:
“(a) If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
          Subd. (b)(1) permits a party to seek relief.
 
IV.     ANALYSIS

A. The
Subpoena 
At
issue is a subpoena served by the Reibers. The subpoena seeks records
pertaining to the financial information concerning Clark, with time references in
the last three requests.           
The subpoena
was served on Macias Gini & O’Connell LLP and contains twelve requests.
However, only five of the requests are being challenged. The Reibers seek the
following categories of information in these requests:
1.“YOUR
entire client file for RAY CLARK.” 
2.
“YOUR entire client file for Valcor Advisors, LLC.” 
5.“To
the extent not produced in response to any of the foregoing demands, all
COMMUNICATIONS between you and RAY CLARK during the RESPONSIVE TIME PERIOD.”
6.“To
the extent not produced in response to any of the foregoing demands, all
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and Kelly Ryan during the RESPONSIVE TIME PERIOD.”
7. “To
the extent not produced in response to any of the foregoing demands, all
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and the Miller Accounting Group, including without
limitation Nancy Miller or Jim Miller, during the RESPONSIVE TIME PERIOD.”
 
 
 
B. Relevance and Privilege
Code Civ. Proc. §2017.010
permits a party to “obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that
is relevant to the subject matter . . . if the matter is either itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” According to a leading treatise, “For discovery
purposes, information should be regarded as ‘relevant’ to the subject matter if
it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing
for trial, or facilitating settlement. [Gonzalez v. Sup.Ct. (City
of San Fernando) (1995) 33 CA4th 1539, 1546, 39 CR2d 896, 901 (citing
text); Lipton v. Sup.Ct. (Lawyers' Mut. Ins. Co.) (1996) 48 CA4th
1599, 1611, 56 CR2d 341, 347 (citing text); Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 CA4th 1006, 1013, 105 CR2d 115, 120 (citing text)]”
(Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group June 2022), ¶8:66.1.) 
          The Reibers argue that they are entitled to discover
“information regarding Plaintiff’s fraudulent conduct” (Opposition, p. 6:4-5)
that they allege induced them to sell CV tile to Clark. The Reibers argue that
the records sought are pertinent to their misrepresentation claims against
Clark. The Reibers also argue that they are entitled to discover the “financial
information regarding plaintiff’s/Valcor’s entity clients and information
sufficient to identify witnesses” (Opposition, p. 7:10-11.) They allege that
such information “is highly relevant to the Reibers fraud causes of action.”
(Opposition Separate Statement 10:17-19.) 
In
their cross-complaint, the Reibers allege that Clark represented “he was a
sophisticated investor, his purchase of [CV Tile] was a suitable investment for
him given his financial status” (First Amended Cross-Complaint ¶ 88), and that
they were induced by these representations and justifiably relied on them when
entering into the Contract. (First Amended Cross-Complaint ¶ 92-94.) The
subpoena is assertedly aimed at obtaining Clark’s true financial information.
This information may allow the Reibers to argue that Clark misrepresented
himself and his financial status when he induced them to sell CV Tile.
Witnesses may be able to speak to the truth or falsity of these representations,
or lead the Reibers to discoverable evidence of witnesses. The standard (e.g., “reasonably
calculated to lead to discoverable evidence”) is met.
The Reibers
also assert that information regarding Valcor’s file is specifically integral
to their argument regarding misrepresentation, as Valcor is the entity under
which Clark purchased the Reibers’ business, CV Tile. As the Reibers allege
that Clark misrepresented both his financial status and “his business acumen”
(First Amended Cross- Complaint ¶ 107), information as to past business
restructurings, and the nature of the entity under which Clark performed this
work could be highly relevant to substantiate the Reibers’ claims that Clark misrepresented
this information.  Therefore, information
within MGO’s Valcor Advisors file could provide key information as to the Reibers’
misrepresentation causes of action. 
Lastly,
Clark argues that the information sought by the subpoena is privileged. Clark
does not identify what specific evidentiary privilege applies. In any case,
California does not recognize an accountant-client privilege. (Strasbourger
Pearson Tulcin Wolff Inc. v. Wiz Tech (1999) 6 Cal.App.4th 1399,1409.) If
Clark is arguing attorney-client privilege, disclosure to a third party, MGO, would
likely vitiate the privilege. (Evid. Code § 954.) Therefore, the Court
concludes that the documents are not privileged. 
In
short, the Reibers have explained how these records sought might help them
evaluate the case, prepare for trial, or facilitate settlement. Thus, the
documents sought are relevant. 
C.  Privacy
Concerns
If the information sought
appears relevant, a balancing is then undertaken to evaluate the privacy rights
of the affected parties against the need for the discovery.  (Valley
Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 657; Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.) Certain information
(such as social security numbers, tax returns, banking information, medical
records, and the like) is protected by a constitutional right to privacy. (Calif.
Const., Art. 1, §1; County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 621, 639 [privacy interest in patient medical and prescription
records].) 
A privacy interest is
qualified, not absolute, however; and disclosure may be required if a
compelling public interest is demonstrated. (Cross v. Superior Court
(2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 305, 326.) “The party asserting a privacy
right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened
intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Ct., (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 532, citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal. 4th 1, 35.) The Court must then
“weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.” (Williams,
supra at 557.) 
i.
Non-Parties’ Privacy Concerns
Clark
argues that the subpoena seeks personal financial information of third parties
“which falls within the zone of privacy protected by article 1, section 1 of
the California Constitution.” (Motion, p.4: 26-27.) Clark asserts that “MGO is
a financial services company” which provides “audit and assurance, tax services
and business advisory services” -- but he does not discuss specifics. Clark
does not directly establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy on
the part of any particular person.  Clark
states that financial records and information of nonparties “[who] have not
been served with a consumer notice” are implicated; but this is tenuously
established. Lastly, Clark does not establish that there is a threatened
intrusion that is serious as to any third party.  However, inasmuch as the subpoena apparently involves
financial records of nonparties, the Court concludes for the sake of argument that
aspect of the analysis is established.  
Next,
the Court must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party
identifies. The Reibers assert that the MGO documents are “critical to the
Reibers’ ability to prove their fraud claims;” and “if the Court limits the
scope of the MGO subpoena to documents concerning CV Tile as Plaintiff
requests, the Reibers will be unable to obtain the documents they need to prove
three of their causes of action.” (Opposition, p. 9: 4-8.) The Reibers urge
that “even if Plaintiff had met his burden to establish the extent and
seriousness of the prospective invasion, the Reibers’ need for these documents
outweighs the privacy interests raised by Plaintiff.” (Opposition Separate
Statement, p. 13:25-27.) Additionally, the Reibers argue that a Protective
Order would obviate any privacy concerns. (Opposition Separate Statement, p.
5:4-5.) 
Corporations
do not have a right of privacy protected by the state constitution. (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.) Even so, a
protective order would likely allay the potential privacy concerns of any entities.
(See Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Sup. Ct. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 579,599.) As it appears that the third parties whose
information may be revealed though this discovery request are entities, the Reibers’
argument has merit. (Vanderpool Declaration, Exh. 1-3.) Redaction of other entities
or individuals’ financial information would accomplish the same thing. (Moskowitz
v. Sup. Ct (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 316; see Opposition Separate
Statement, p. 10:4-5.)
To
the extent that Clark believes that compliance with the subpoena by MGO would
implicate the privacy rights of third parties, he has the right to raise such
objections on that basis. However, Clark does not adequately meet his burden to
demonstrate that these privacy concerns outweigh the Reibers’ interest in identifying
potential witnesses; and relevant financial information they allege may have
been misrepresented to them.
ii.
Clark’s Privacy Concerns
The Reibers
argue that they are entitled to discover “Clark’s financial information in the
context of this case revolving around his and CV Tile’s finances.” (Opposition,
p. 6:17.)  The Reibers argue that by
breaching the Agreement and filing suit against them, Clark put himself in a
position where “he must now be willing to disclose his own financial
information for the purpose of the case” (Opposition, p. 2: 15-17.)  The Reibers urge that they are entitled to the
information because Clark does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in
the information, and it is key to their misrepresentation causes of action. (Id.
at 6:17-19.) Additionally, a protective order would allay any concerns about
public disclosure. (Opposition Separate Statement, p. 9:17-19.)
Here,
Clark has arguably established a legally protected privacy interest, as the
records sought contain his financial information. However, he cannot establish
a reasonable expectation of privacy in these records, as he sued the Reibers in
connection with the contract between them. 
Clark has alleged that the Reibers misrepresented the nature of the financial
records of CV Tile.  The Reibers then
cross-complained, arguing that Clark misrepresented his financial information.
Thus, the financial information of all of the parties are at issue in the case,
and no reasonable expectation of privacy exists as to any of them.  Even if the Court found that Clark had a
reasonable expectation of privacy in his information, the threatened intrusion
would not be serious, as Clark has placed those matters in issue by initiating
this action.   
 
D. Overbreadth
          Clark asserts that each of the five requests at issue are overbroad
in scope. Clark does not provide any specific reasoning, however, as to why the
requests are overbroad. Clark also objects that the definition of “Ray Clark”
as propounded by the document requests is overly broad. (Motion Separate
Statement, p. 2:20-21.)  
In
opposition, the Reibers urge that the document requests are not overbroad, as
“MGO presumably has an organized file for Valcor that it can easily produce.”
(Opposition Separate Statement, p.9: 9-10.)  Secondly, the Reibers urge that document
requests 5, 6 and 7 are not overly broad because they are limited in time to
July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2023.  And
lastly, the Reibers urge that the definition of “Ray Clark” as set forth in the
document requests functions the same as if the definition stated “Ray Clark
shall mean Plaintiff Ray Clark.” (Opposition Separate Statement, p.6: 15-20.)
          Because requests 5, 6 and 7 are limited to the time period
when the parties negotiated and finalized the agreement for the sale of CV
Tile, the Court does not find these requests to be overbroad. To the extent
that requests 1 and 2 seek discovery of the entirety of the client files for
Ray Clark and Valcor Advisors, however, the Court finds that these requests are
overbroad. The Reibers request information as to the past business
dealings/acumen of Clark, and his entity through which he does business (Valcor);
as well as information concerning the financial stability of both Valcor and
Clark. As stated, the requests could result in the production of financial
information and records of third parties not relevant to the case at hand. 
Therefore,
the Court will modify the requests to include “Past business restructuring
deals and financial information of RAY CLARK as contained in YOUR file for RAY
CLARK;” and “Past business restructuring deals and financial information of
VALCOR ADVISORS, as contained in YOUR file for VALCOR ADVISORS.”
          For these reasons, the Court will grant the motion to quash
in part to limit the scope of requests 1 and 2. 
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Clark’s motion to quash the subpoena served on MGO is GRANTED
in part, to limit the scope of requests 1 and 2 as noted above.  The motion is otherwise denied.  Clark is ordered to provide notice of ruling. 
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT