 Case Number:  22STCV33699    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MANUEL DE JESUS REYES CHICAS, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
ADOBE COMMUNITIES,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV33699
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Adobe Communities (“Defendant”) moves for a
determination of good faith settlement.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a landlord-tenant case. Plaintiffs Manuel de Jesus
Reyes Chicas, Iris Yesenia Baires, Mylo Steven Baires, Ezre Izvy Loya Baires,
and Heaven Reyes Baires (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) were tenants at a property
owned by Defendant and alleged a number of bases for liability arising out of
that property.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 17, 2022. The
operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which alleges (1)
breach of implied warranty of habitability; (2) breach of statutory warranty of
habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4) negligence;
(5) violation of Civil Code, section 1942.4; (6) private nuisance; and (7)
violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance.
 
On April 25, 2023, the Court sustained a demurrer to the
second cause of action without leave to amend.
 
On September 22, 2023, Plaintiffs and Defendant entered into
a settlement agreement.
 
Defendant filed this motion on November 13, 2023. No party
opposes the motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
When analyzing a motion for determination of good faith
settlement, the trial court should consider several factors, including “whether
the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt).) Such factors
(the “Tech-Bilt Factors”) are summarized as follows: 
 
1.     A
rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; 
2.     The
amount paid in settlement; 
3.     The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; 
4.     A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial; 
5.     The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling defendants;
and 
6.     The
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants. 
 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)
 
“[O]nly when the good faith nature of a settlement is
disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the
Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion
which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) In light of
the non-opposition to the application, the Court need not consider and weigh
the Tech-Bilt factors.
 
Discussion
 
          No
party objects to the settlement here.
 
          Defendant’s
motion sets forth the background of the case and the grounds for good faith. Daniel
Berke, Counsel for Defendant, declares that the settlement was reached in
compliance with Tech-Bilt’s requirements for good faith. (Berke Decl. ¶
7.) Per the settlement agreement, Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss this action in
exchange for a total settlement amount of $200,000.00. (Berke Decl. ¶ 2.) The
settlement was reached following negotiations through counsel and a mediator.
(Berke Decl. ¶ 6.) All parties were represented by competent counsel. (Berke
Decl. ¶ 8.) The settlement was not structured in a manner so as to defraud any
party. (Berke Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant denies liability but agreed to settle in
order to avoid further costs of litigation. (Berke Decl. ¶¶ 5, 8.) 
 
          The
Court finds that the settlement was entered into in good faith. Defendant’s
unopposed motion for determination of good faith settlement is granted.