  Case Number:  21STCV32268    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JORGE PINA ALONSO, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
KIA MOTORS AMERICA, INC.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV32268
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for
judgment on the pleadings on the fourth cause of action in the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiffs Jorga Pina Alonso and Ivonne Maltos
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”).
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a Lemon Law case. The following facts are taken from
the allegations in the FAC.
 
Plaintiffs purchased a vehicle (the “Subject Vehicle”) with
a defective engine from Defendant. Plaintiffs allege that the type of engine
installed in the Subject Vehicle had a propensity to suffer from a blockage of
oil flow to the engine’s moving parts, causing unreliable and potentially
dangerous performance. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were aware of this
defect due to internal reports such as pre-release testing data, consumer
complaints, replacement part sale data, and other sources of aggregate
information. This information was not available to the public. Defendants did
not disclose any information about the engine’s defect to Plaintiffs before
Plaintiff’s purchased the vehicle.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on August 31, 2021. The
operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1) breach of
express warranty under the Song-Beverly Act; (2) breach of implied warranty
under the Song-Beverly Act; (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act, section
1793.2; (4) fraudulent inducement by concealment; and (5) fraudulent inducement
by intentional misrepresentation.
 
Defendant filed this motion on January 18, 2024, seeking
judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of action. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and Defendant filed a reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Either prior to trial, but after the time to answer or demur
has passed, or at the trial, the plaintiff or the defendant may move for
judgment on the pleadings and that the appropriate ground for such a motion is
the same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to state a
cause of action or defense. (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d
787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583,
586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made at any
time, even during trial, since the grounds for a general demurrer are never
waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).)   
 
Discussion
 
Timeliness
 
The Court exercises its discretion under Code of Civil
Procedure, section 438, subd. (e) to hear the motion.
 
Preemption
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fraudulent concealment
claim is preempted by federal disclosure requirements.
 
78 Fed. Reg. 161, 51382 establishes Early Warning Reporting,
which lays out a regulatory scheme under which manufacturers of vehicles must
report certain vehicle data to the NHTSA.
 
5 U.S.C. § 552 provides that covered agencies shall make
certain information available to the public. 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(4) provides that
“[t]his section does not apply to matters that are … trade secrets and
commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or
confidential[.]” (Ibid.)
 
49 CFR Part 512 governs how the NHTSA handles confidential
information that is submitted to the agency. In relevant part, the regulation
provides that that NHTSA will not publicly disclose confidential information.
(49 CFR § 512.20.) 
 
“If Congress has not entirely displaced state regulation
over the matter in question, state law is still preempted to the extent it
actually conflicts with federal law, that is, when it is impossible to comply
with both state and federal law, or where the state law stands as an obstacle
to the accomplishment of the full purposes and objectives of Congress[.]” (Silkwood
v. Kerr-McGee Corporation (1984) 464 U.S. 238, 248.)
 
Defendant argues that permitting state law causes of action
regarding the disclosure of vehicle data to consumers would impair the NHTSA’s
ability to obtain necessary information in the future.
 
These federal statutes and regulations handle what
information must be reported to federal agencies and how the agency
handles information that is reported to it. The forgoing law serves to ensure
that agencies protect confidential information which is disclosed to
them. Nothing in their language suggests that they are intended to control what
information manufacturers do or do not disclose to buyers of their vehicles.
Although Defendant argues that the regulations also cover how agencies handle
Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) requests, that is, again, a rule
controlling what information agencies may give to the public when the
public requests it from the agency. It is not a regulation protecting
manufacturers from ever having to disclose confidential information to members
of the public.
 
Defendant cites to Lloyd v. Ford Motor Co. (In re
Ford Motor Co. F-150) (6th Cir. 2023) 65 F.4th 851, where the Sixth Circuit
found that the plaintiff’s fraud-on-the-agency argument was preempted by
federal law which established requirements for disclosure to the EPA. In re
Ford Motor Co. F-150 is inapposite. Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendant
committed fraud on a federal agency. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
committed fraud on Plaintiffs. Thus, Plaintiff’s claim does not require an
analysis of whether Defendants correctly reported information to the federal
government – it requires an analysis of whether Defendants fraudulently failed
to disclose information to Plaintiffs. 
 
Defendant attempts to represent Plaintiffs’ claim as an
assertion that Plaintiffs are entitled to the same aggregate data that
Defendant provides to the NHTSA. This is not the case, as Defendant would not
have had to disclose its aggregate data to Plaintiffs to avoid liability – it
would only have had to disclose the engine’s propensity for defects.
 
Thus, the Court finds that permitting Plaintiff to pursue a
cause of action for fraudulent concealment of the engine’s defects does not
conflict with the NHTSA’s regulatory scheme for its own information acquisition
and protection procedures. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s claim is
not preempted.
 
Failure to State a Claim
 
“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Defendant argues in its reply that Plaintiffs fail to carry
their burden to establish that Defendant had a duty to disclose. This argument
was not raised in the moving papers and is therefore waived.
 
The Court therefore denies Defendant’s motion.