 Case Number:  22STCV40027    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JORGE HERNANDEZ VERDEL,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV40027
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  3



 
          Plaintiff  Jorge Hernandez Verdel (“Plaintiff”) seeks a
person most qualified (“PMQ”) on certain topics to be produced by Defendant
General Motors LLC (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff
further seeks production of documents reflected in each of the categories
attached to the deposition notice.  Plaintiff
also seeks $1,860 in discovery sanctions. 
 
          The Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion as set forth below. 
Defendant shall produce a PMQ and responsive documents within 30
days.  Defendant shall pay Plaintiff’s
counsel $1,860 in attorney’s fees within 30 days.  
 
The parties’ respective positions can be found in their
filings, including the separate statements. The Court’s rulings on each request
are set forth below.  In general, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant
must produce a PMQ and documents as set forth below.  
 
 
PMQ Categories 1-4:  Defendant shall produce a deponent.  
 
Request for Document 1:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request for Documents No. 2:  Defendant shall
produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Documents No. 3:  Defendant shall
produce responsive documents sufficient to show any policies and procedures
that are responsive to this request.  
Defendant shall not have to search for or produce emails.  
 
Request for Documents No. 4:  Defendants shall
produce all responsive documents for a reasonable time period before the events
at issue in this lawsuit took place.  
 
Request for Documents No. 5:  Defendants shall
produce all responsive documents.
 
Request for Documents No. 6:  The Court agrees
that this request is vague and overbroad. 
Defendant need not produce further documents responsive to this request.
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for discovery sanctions
in the amount of $1,860.  (See 12/18/2023
Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 13-15.)  Defendant is a
frequent litigant in Lemon Law cases and, like many Lemon Law defendants, is
subject to frequent discovery motions and requests for discovery sanctions.  Accordingly, the Court wishes to specifically
address a mistaken legal argument that Defendant makes in its papers on the
issue of discovery sanctions.  
 
Defendant argued that “Sanctions should be reserved for only
the most blatant discovery misconduct.” 
(Opp. at 8:12-13.)  This is not a
correct statement of California law. 
Plaintiff seeks its attorney’s fees under Civil Code section 2025.450,
subdivision (g), which states:  “If a
motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   Thus, imposition of sanctions is mandatory—it
is the default—unless the Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial
justification or there are other special circumstances. The Court makes no such
findings in this case exempting Defendant from the ordinary rule that sanctions
must be awarded.  Accordingly, the Court
grants the sanctions request.  
 
 