 Case Number:  23STCV15607    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LEE & ASSOCIATES INVESTMENT
  SERVICES GROUP, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PHILLIPS RANCH DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV15607
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024
 Calendar Number:  11



 
 
 
Cross-Defendant San Gabriel/Pomona Valleys Developmental
Services, Inc. (“SGPV”) demurs to the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) filed
by Defendant and Cross-Complainant PRBC VII Limited Partnership (“PRBC”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Lee & Associates Investment Services Group,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges that it entered into a commission agreement (the
Commission Agreement) with Defendant Phillips Ranch Development, LLC (“PRD”).
The Commission Agreement provided that Plaintiff was entitled to commissions
for the leasing by PRD, or its successor, of real property located at 41 Rancho
Camino Road, Pomona, CA (the “Property”). The agreement provided for
commissions of six percent of the base rent for the initial lease term, and
three percent for any term of an option term exercised by the tenant of the
Property.
 
SGPV entered into a lease of the Property on April 15, 2013
(the “Lease”). The Lease had an initial term of 10 years and gave SGPV two
options to extend the Lease for five years each.
 
Plaintiff alleges that PRD’s successor, PRBC, continues to
lease the property beyond the initial term of the Lease and that Plaintiff is
therefore entitled to the three percent commission specified for the option
terms of the Lease.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against PRD and PRBC
(collectively, “Defendants”) on July 5, 2023, raising claims for (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (3)
declaratory relief. All three causes of action seek to enforce the claimed
right to commission for the extended term of the Lease.
 
On August 28, 2023, PRBC filed the Cross-Complaint against SGPV
and Savills, Inc. (“Savills”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”). The operative
cross-complaint is now the FACC, which raises claims for (1) equitable
indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; (3) contribution; and (4) implied indemnity
under Code of Civil Procedure, section 1021.6.
 
SGPV demurred to the FACC on January 8, 2024. On January 23,
2024, San Gabriel filed an amended demurrer, correcting typographical errors in
the original demurrer. PRBC filed an opposition and San Gabriel filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
Discussion
 
Equitable Indemnity – First Cause of Action
 
The elements for equitable indemnity are (1) a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is contractually or equitably responsible. (Gouvis
Engineering v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 642, 646.) “To state a
claim for equitable indemnity, a defendant must allege the same harm for which
he may be held liable is properly attributable—at least in part—to the
cross-defendant.” (Platt v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445,
fn.7.)
 
“Where, as here, the parties have expressly contracted with
respect to the duty to indemnify, the extent of that duty must be determined
from the contract and not by reliance on the independent doctrine of equitable
indemnity.” (Rossmoor Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc. (1975) 13 Cal.3d
622, 628.)
 
Section 16.13 of the Lease provides:
 
Tenant
[SGPV] warrants that it has had no dealing with any real estate brokers or
agent in connection with the negotiations of this Lease, except the broker(s),
if any referenced in the applicable Lease Summary provision (“Broker”). Tenant
shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Landlord against all claims,
demands, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses (including without limitation,
legal fees) with respect to any commission or other compensation or
other amounts owing or alleged to be owing to any broker (other than Broker
[Plaintiff]) occurring by or through Tenant.
 
(FACC, Exh. 2 at p. 24.)
 
          The
parties do not dispute the content of the Lease.
 
          PRBC
alleges that SGPV informed PRBC that SGPV had used a broker other than
Plaintiff, and that PRBC paid commissions to that broker as a result. PRBC
argues that, as a result, SGPV must indemnify PRBC for the commissions that
PRBC owes to Plaintiff.
 
          This
contention misreads the contract. SGPV may well be obligated PRBC for the
commission payments PRBC made to the third-party broker. However, those
payments are not the commission payments that Plaintiff is suing
for. Thus, SGPV is protected from liability to indemnify PRBC for the
commissions that PRBC allegedly owes to Plaintiff in this action.
 
          The
Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
 
Declaratory Relief – Second Cause of Action
 
“To qualify for declaratory
relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential
elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home
Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets
omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory
relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to
demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290).
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.” (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Here, PRBC’s declaratory relief claim is solely intended to
secure a determination of a duty to indemnify. It is therefore derivative of
the equitable indemnity claim. Thus, the declaratory relief claim also fails.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
 
Contribution – Third Cause of Action
 
A claim for contribution requires allegations of (1) “a
money judgment,” (2) “rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a tort
action,” (3) “in accordance with the principles of equity,” (4) “after one
tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint judgment or has paid more than
his pro rata share thereof,” (5) without intentional injury by the tortfeasor.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subds. (a)-(d).) 
 
Plaintiff’s action lies in contract, not tort. Additionally,
there is no money judgment rendered against PRBC. Furthermore, PRBC does not
allege that SGPV is a joint tortfeasor. Thus, PRBC does not have a claim
against SGPV for contribution.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
 
Implied Indemnity – Fourth Cause of Action
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 1021.6 provides:
 
Upon
motion, a court after reviewing the evidence in the principal case may award
attorney's fees to a person who prevails on a claim for implied indemnity if
the court finds (a) that the indemnitee through the tort of the indemnitor has
been required to act in the protection of the indemnitee's interest by bringing
an action against or defending an action by a third person and (b) if that
indemnitor was properly notified of the demand to bring the action or provide
the defense and did not avail itself of the opportunity to do so, and (c) that
the trier of fact determined that the indemnitee was without fault in the
principal case which is the basis for the action in indemnity or that the
indemnitee had a final judgment entered in his or her favor granting a summary
judgment, a nonsuit, or a directed verdict.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.6.)
 
According to its text, this statute does not create a cause
of action. Rather, it provides for the recovery of attorney’s fees by a party
who prevails in an indemnification action under certain circumstances.
 
PRBC argues that the demurrer to this claim should be
overruled because a plaintiff may argue in the alternative and because a trial
court, though it may delay an indemnity action to avoid complicating the
plaintiff’s case, may not preclude the filing of an indemnity cross-complaint
altogether. Both of these arguments are non-sequiturs. The right to argue in
the alternative is not a right to invent causes of action from whole cloth.
PRBC has not stated a claim, nor could it, because it is relying on an attorney
fee statute. The Court therefore sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.