  Case Number:  20STCV01009    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV01009




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 26, 2024 by Petitioner Jasmine Bledsoe (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Jayden Coleman, age 15.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice. 
 
Petitioner indicates in items 12b(1) and 14b that she
paid $2,749.80 in medical expenses, presumably to Sherman Oaks Hospital (see
item 12b(5)(b)(i)). Petitioner must provide proof of the expenses and payments.

 
The value in MC-351, item 8a(2) is listed as $3,726.00.
However, if this value reflects medical expense paid by Petitioner and the
non-medical expenses incurred by Petitioner’s attorney, then the amount should
be $3,726.70. Petitioner must review this value. 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 