 Case Number:  20STCV07875    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KATHERYN CRESPIN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  KATHRYN ALVERSON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV07875  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 8, 2024  I. Background On February 28, 2020, Plaintiff Kathryn Crespin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Kathryn Alverson (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle incident. Trial is currently set for March 4, 2024.  On January 16, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion requesting the Court to continue the trial date in order for her discovery motions to be heard and for discovery to be completed prior to Trial.  As of January 26, 2024, the motion is unopposed.   II. Discussion Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) Here, Defendant argues there is good cause for a continuance because Plaintiff’s counsel refused to produce Plaintiff for her independent medical examination (IME) on November 14, 2023, necessitating a motion to compel filed by Defendant. Defendant further contends that Plaintiff has placed her mental condition in controversy, and defense counsel has not received a meaningful response from Plaintiff’s counsel regarding a second examination for Plaintiff’s mental condition. Defendant avers she was forced to file motions to compel Plaintiff’s IME, second IME, and mental Ime, which are currently set to be heard on March 28, 2024 and April 10, 2024. Additionally, Defendant filed an amendment to cross-complaint naming Roberto Sandoval (“Sandoval”) as Roe 2. Defendant argues that despite her best efforts, she has been unable to serve Sandoval with the cross-complaint because he lives in a gated community. Defendant contends Sandoval bears some allocation of fault because Sandoval planted a tree without a permit from the City of Los Angeles, and the tree contributed to the accident by obscuring Defendant’s view of the stop sign in the incident. Defendant argues she will be prejudiced and unable to adequately prepare for trial without a continuance.  This is the third request for a trial continuance, and no parties oppose the motion. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date to allow the parties sufficient time to complete discovery and for Defendant’s motions to be heard prior to the trial date. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.   The March 4, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The February 20, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31.  All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date. Given the number of prior continuances and the age of the case, the Court will not be inclined to grant any further continuances. The parties must plan all discovery and trial preparation accordingly.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   