 Case Number:  24PSCV00521    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC’s Application
for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC’s Application
for Default Judgment is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona).
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for cancellation of instruments and declaratory judgment.
In March
2019, Defendants Ernesto Cano Avila and Ernesto Cano Sanchez financed the
purchase of a property in La Puente with an FHA-insured mortgage loan that was
secured by a recorded deed of trust. Subsequently, the loan and deed of trust
were assigned to Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC (Lakeview). Lakeview
then discovered there were alleged scrivener’s errors in the grant deed,
quitclaim deeds, and deed of trust for the La Puente property. Lakeview also
discovered a prior lien remains recorded against the La Puente property that
should be released.
On February
20, 2024, Lakeview filed a complaint against Cano Avila; Cano Sanchez;
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD Secretary); Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS); Aqua Finance, Inc. (Aqua); all unknown
persons; and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
reformation of instruments, (2) cancellation of instrument, (3) declaratory
judgment, and (4) quiet title. On April 19, 2024, Lakeview’s process server
personally served Aqua in Sacramento. On April 23, 2024, Lakeview’s process
server served Cano Avila and Cano Sanchez with substitute service in La Puente
and personally served MERS in Glendale. On April 25, 2024, Lakeview’s process
server personally served the HUD Secretary in Washington, D.C. after previously
serving the HUD Secretary with personal service on April 24, 2024, in Los
Angeles.
On
May 31, 2024, the court entered default against MERS after they failed to
timely file an answer. On June 4, 2024, the court entered default against Cano
Avila and Cano Sanchez after they failed to timely file an answer. On June 7,
2024, the court entered default against Aqua after they also filed to timely
file an answer.
On
September 30, 2024, Lakeview filed the present application for default
judgment. On October 1, 2024, Lakeview dismissed the fourth cause of action and
entered into a stipulated judgment with the HUD Secretary.
An
OSC Re: Default Judgment is set for October 3, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Lakeview
seeks default judgment against Cano Avila, Cano Sanchez, MERS, and Aqua in the form
of reformation of instruments and declaratory judgment. But in submitting the
present application for default judgment, Lakeview failed to include any
supporting declarations and evidence as required by Code of Civil Procedure
585. While their application references a declaration by Linda Brown, the court
notes such a declaration appears to be missing from their default judgment
packet. Accordingly, the court finds their application for default judgment to
be incomplete and CONTINUES the present hearing.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
hearing on Lakeview’s application for default judgment is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona).