  Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRILE RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH, (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS CORPORATION (a Delaware
  corporation); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   October
  24, 2024
 Trial Date:        January
  14, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Freddie
  Roach’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of
  Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action [RES ID # 5341]
Defendant Freddie
  Roach’s Joinder to Keith Davidson’s Motion for Summary Judgment [RES ID #
  5282]
Defendant Freddie
  Roach’s Joinder to Defendants Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s
  Renewed Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s First, Third, and
  Fourth Causes of Action [RES ID # 1045]
 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda (Rueda)
sues Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao (Pacquiao), Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith
M. Davidson, Paramount Global (f/k/a ViacomCBS, f/k/a CBS Corporation),
Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a February 2,
2024, Third Amended Complaint (TAC). The TAC alleges claims of: (1) Breach of
Oral Contract against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2) Omitted
[Breach of Implied Contract; Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts for
Labor, Work, and Services against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach;
(4) Quantum Meruit against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (5) Fraud
in the Inducement against Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation
against Freddie Roach; (7) Omitted [Unjust Enrichment; Dismissed by the Court];
(8) Omitted [Attempted Extortion; Dismissed by the Court]; and (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress against the Showtime Defendants, Freddie
Roach, Defendant Pacquiao, and Defendant Davidson. 
The claims arise from allegations
that Rueda, pursuant to an unpaid finder’s fee, introduced Leslie Moonves, the
then-president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to Defendant Roach,
who was the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao. Moonves allegedly used the
introduction to broker a bout between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd Mayweather
Jr.—dubbed the “Fight of the Century”—that earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and
Showtime Networks more than $430 million. According to Rueda, he is entitled to
2% of the gross proceeds from the fight received by Roach, Pacquiao, and
Paramount and Showtime. When Rueda approached Moonves, Roach and Pacquiao for
payment after the fight, Defendants directly or indirectly sought to intimidate
Rueda to minimize or eliminate the money to be paid to Rueda.
B. Motion Before the Court
On July 9, 2024, Defendant Keith
Davidson filed a motion for summary judgment (MSJ) to the TAC’s ninth cause of
action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED). 
On July 31, 2024, Defendants
Showtime Networks Inc. and Paramount Global (the Showtime Defendants) filed a renewed
MSA to the TAC’s first, third, and fourth causes of action. 
On August 2, 2024, Defendant Freddie
Roach filed the instant motion for summary adjudication (MSA) to the TAC’s
ninth cause of action for IIED. 
On August 7, 2024, Roach filed a
Joinder to the Showtime Defendants’ MSA. 
Also on August 2, 2024, Roach filed
a Joinder to Davidson’s MSJ. 
On September 9, 2024, Rueda opposed
Davidson’s MSJ. 
On September 18, 2024, Davidson replied.
 
On September 30, 2024, the Court denied
Davidson’s MSJ. 
On October 4, 2024, Rueda opposed
the Showtime Defendants’ MSA.  
On October 10, 2024, Rueda filed oppositions
to Roach’s MSJ, Roach’s Joinder to Davidson’s MSJ, and Roach’s Joinder to the
Showtime Defendants’ MSA. 
On October 11, 2024, the Showtime
Defendants replied to Rueda’s opposition to their MSA.  
On October 18, 2024, Roach filed a
joint reply to Rueda’s oppositions to the MSJ and opposition to the Joinder to
Davidson’s MSJ. 
Roach’s MSJ, Joinder to the
Davidson MSJ, and Joinder to the Showtime Defendant’s MSA are now before the
Court. 
 
II. Motion for Summary Adjudication
A.   
Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial
notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States.” The court however
may not take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
Documents are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what
orders were made such that the truth of the facts and findings within the
documents are not judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Per
Rueda’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)   This
Court’s March 5, 2019, Ruling on Emmanuel D. Pacquiao’s Motion for Summary
Judgment (Ex. A)
(2)   The
Declaration of Keith Davidson in Support of Special Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s Complaint Pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.6 (Ex. C)
(3)   This
Court’s Ruling on Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion (Ex. D)
(4)   This
Court’s September 30, 2024 Minute Order (Ex. E)
The
Court declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit B because it is not relevant
to the Court’s decision on this motion. 
 (Opp., RJN, Exs. A-E.) 
B.   
Evidentiary Objections
In
granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the
court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it deems material to
its disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Rueda
Evidentiary Objections to Motion: 
Not ruled on as not material to disposition
of the motion. 
Roach
Evidentiary Objections to Opposition:  
Not ruled on as not material to disposition
of the motion. 

C.   
Legal Standard
A motion for summary adjudication
(MSA) is nearly identical to a motion for summary judgment except that instead
of disposing of the entire case, a summary adjudication disposes of only select
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) All matters that are not resolved
by summary adjudication will be resolved at trial. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n)(1).)  
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that
the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
D.   
Analysis
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress [IIED] exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-1051].) 
 Roach argues that the IIED claim fails
because Roach did not, directly or indirectly, engage in conduct that constitutes
actionable IIED. 
1.    
Direct Liability for IIED
The only facts alleged about
Roach’s direct liability for IIED pertain to an interaction at Craig’s
restaurant. Rueda alleges that in December 2025, Roach, Liam Vaughan, Richard Palmer
and Joseph Abinanti had dinner at Craig’s, where Rueda worked as a waiter. (UMF
62-63; PUMF 83.) Rueda alleges that during this dinner Roach and the others pointed
at and taunted Rueda. (UMF 57.) He alleges that Roach called him a
“motherfucker” and that in Roach’s presence, Abinanti grabbed Rueda’s wrist and
threw it down on the table. (UMF 57, 107; PUMF 86-87.) This instance of insults
and threats alone does not amount to the kind of ‘extreme and outrageous
conduct’ necessary for an IIED cause of action. (see Hughes, supra, 46
Cal.4th at 1050-1051.) Thus, Rueda has not shown that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to Roach’s direct liability for IIED.    
2.    
Vicarious Liability for IIED 
a.     
Conspiracy 
“[T]he basis of a civil conspiracy
is the formation of a group of two or more persons who have agreed to a common
plan or design to commit a tortious act. The conspiring defendants must also
have actual knowledge that a tort is planned and concur in the tortious scheme
with knowledge of its unlawful purpose.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp.
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1582) (cleaned up). “Knowledge of the planned tort
must be combined with intent to aid in its commission.” (Ibid.) 
However, such knowledge and intent
“may be inferred from the nature of the acts done, the relation of the parties,
the interests of the alleged conspirators, and other circumstances.” (Wyatt
v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773, 785.)
Roach argues that the facts as
alleged are not sufficient to show a conspiracy relationship because there are
no facts establishing that Roach has ever communicated with any other person
about harming or threatening Rueda or has any knowledge of overt acts to harm
Rueda. (UMF 49-50, 54-55, 77-78.) Rueda argues that there is sufficient circumstantial
evidence for one to infer a conspiracy relationship based on the relationship
between Roach and the other alleged co-conspirators including Nick Khan, Keith
Davidson, and Leslie Moonves, as well as Roach’s alleged connections to the
individuals who threatened and harassed Rueda. (PUMF 76, 80, 82-87.) 
Here, there is a genuine issue of
material fact as to whether Roach conspired with other individuals to harass
and intimidate Rueda out of pursuing his finder’s fee. Rueda provides evidence that
he arranged a meeting between Roach and Moonves to coordinate the fight, and that
Roach’s talent agent, Nick Khan, coordinated to hire Davidson. (PUMF 15,
30-33.) Rueda further alleges that after he met with Davidson, Roach and other
individuals showed up to Rueda’s workplace and threatened and taunted him. (PUMF
79-80.) Rueda also alleges that he was stalked by unidentified individuals that
he recognized as members of Roach’s Wildcard Gym. (PUMF 77.) 
It is true that “[m]ere association
does not make a conspiracy” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp., (1995)
40 Cal. App. 4th 1571, 1582), It is also true that a temporal sequence of
events alone does not prove causation. (Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc. (2004)
116 Cal.Ap.4th 375, 393-394.) However, Rueda has alleged close relationships
amongst the named parties with a direct connection between them to the
allegedly tortious conduct. Considering the evidence in the light most
favorable to the Plaintiff, as the Court must, a reasonable finder of fact
could infer a conspiracy. Roach’s close business and personal relationships
with the alleged co-conspirators and tortfeasors, plus Roach’s direct
involvement in the incident at Craig’s restaurant, coupled with the temporal
proximity of events, creates at least a triable issue of fact whether Roach was
aware of or aided in a plan to inflict emotional distress upon Rueda. (Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics,
Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1284, 1300 [“[A] finder of fact may infer the requisite concurrence and
knowledge from the nature of the acts done, the parties’ relations to each
other, and the common interest of the alleged conspirators. ‘It is not
necessary that the plaintiffs provide evidence showing that the defendants met
and actually agreed to undertake the performance of the unlawful act.’”] See
also Balistreri v. Turner (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 236, 241-242 [“Proof of
a combination linking two or more defendants may . . . be inferred from indirect
and circumstantial evidence, such as the nature of the acts done, the
relationship of the parties, their interest and other circumstances.”]; Wyatt
v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 34 Cal.3d 773, 785.)
Roach argues that the Court should
adopt its reasoning from Pacquiao’s motion for summary adjudication, however
the events as they relate to Pacquiao are distinguishable. There was no
evidence that Pacquiao knew of specific tortious conduct against Rueda, while
here Rueda alleges that Roach witnessed and participated in the incident at
Craig’s. Additionally, there was no evidence that Pacquiao had any recent communication
with the alleged co-conspirators, while here Roach was actively represented by
Nick Khan during the relevant period and Roach acknowledges that Davidson acted
as his lawyer. 
Thus, Rueda has met his burden to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to
establishing a cause of action against Roach for IIED based on conspiracy. Accordingly, there is a genuine issue of material fact
regarding Roach’s liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
b.    
Agency 
Because the Court has found that a
genuine issue of material fact exists as to Roach’s liability for IIED based on
a conspiracy theory, the Court need not reach of the issue of whether there is
also a genuine issue of material fact under an agency theory. 
 
III. Joinder to Keith Davidson’s Motion for Summary
Judgment
A.   
Requests for Judicial Notice
Per
Rueda’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)   The
Declaration of Keith Davidson in Support of Special Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s Complaint Pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.6 (Ex. A)
(2)   This
Court’s Ruling on Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP Motion (Ex. B)
(3)   The
Court of Appeal’s October 11, 2018 Ruling (Ex. C)
(4)   The
Declaration of Keith Davidson in Support of Defendants CBS Corporation and
Showtime Network Inc.’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Eighth and Ninth Causes of
Action (Ex. D)
(5)   This
Court’s November 13, 2020 Order (Ex. E.)
(6)   The
Court of Appeal’s July 26, 2023 Ruling (Ex. F.) 
(7)   This
Court’s December 21, 2023 Minute Order (Ex. G.)
(8)   This
Court’s April 25, 2024 Order (Ex. H.) 
The
Court declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit I because it is not relevant
to the Court’s decision on this motion. 
(Opp., RJN, Exs. A-H.)

B.   
Evidentiary Objections
In
granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the
court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it deems material to
its disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Roach
Evidentiary Objections to Opposition:  
Not ruled on as not material to disposition
of the motion. 
C.   
Legal Standard
See
above. 
D.   
Analysis

Because Roach’s Joinder raises
identical arguments as to those raised in Davidson’s motion for summary
judgment, (compare Davidson MSJ, pp. 12-19, with Roach Joinder,
p. 2), the Court adopts its reasoning to find that a reasonable trier of fact
could conclude that Davidson’s conduct is outrageous, that for purposes of this
ruling the June 29, 2015 meeting between Davidson and Rueda is protected by the
litigation privilege, and that there is a genuine issue of material fact as to
whether in that phone call Davidson conspired with the other named individuals
to harass and intimidate Rueda from following up on his request for a finder’s
fee. (See 9/30/2024 Minute Order.) 
            Thus,
considering the above, and the fact that there is evidence that Davidson was
acting as Roach’s lawyer, there is a triable issue of material fact whether
Roach can be held vicariously liable for Davidson’s alleged conduct. 
 
IV. Joinder to Showtime Defendants Renewed Motion for
Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s First, Third and Fourth Causes of Action
A.   
Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it
deems material to its disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (q).) 
Rueda Evidentiary Objections to
Motion: 
Not ruled on as
not material to disposition of the motion. 
Roach Evidentiary Objections to
Opposition:  
Not ruled on as
not material to disposition of the motion. 
B.   
Legal Standard
See above. 
C.   
Analysis
Roach joins the Showtime
Defendant’s MSA with respect to Issue 2 – no meeting of the minds. No binding
agreement is formed when the parties to the agreement fail to “reach a meeting
of the minds on all material points.” Cheema v. L.S. Trucking, Inc., (2019)
39 Cal. App. 5th 1142, 1149 (quoting Banner Ent., Inc. v. Super. Ct., (1998)
62 Cal. App. 4th 348, 359).
 In their MSA, the Showtime Defendants argue
that the February 27, 2015 Email and Rueda and Marshall’s June 2024 testimony
about the email establish that there was no meeting of the minds on the alleged
May 2014 oral contract. (Showtime MSA, pp. 14-17.) Specifically, the Showtime
Defendants argue that there was no meeting of the minds on the following
material terms: (1) whether Rueda was entitled to a finder’s fee on rematches
and (2) how many tickets Rueda would receive to the fight. (Showtime MSA, pp. 15-17.)
The Showtime Defendants argue that Rueda has testified that compensation for
rematches and the number of tickets for the fight were material terms of the
agreement, and further testifies that the parties did not reach an agreement on
either of these terms. (SUF 6, 8, 11, 92, 93.) 
In opposition to the Joinder, Rueda
argues that the oral contract between Rueda and Roach was entirely separate
from the oral contract between Rueda and CBS. (Opp. to Joinder, p. 6.) He
asserts that “[t]he oral contract between Rueda and Roach was for a 2% finder’s
fee only (with respect to Roach’s and Pacquiao’s gross proceeds), and did not
include any agreement (or discussion) regarding tickets or compensation for
future bouts.” (Opp. to Joinder, p. 6:20-22.) Rueda further argues that the
February 27, 2015 Email relates only to Rueda’s efforts to get an advance on his
finder’s fee contract with the Showtime Defendants and thus is unrelated to his
finder’s fee contract with Roach. (Opp. to Joinder, pp. 12:25-13:2.) 
The TAC makes no clear reference to
either an “advance” or to Rueda’s contention that he is owed two separate
finders fees, one pursuant to an oral contract with Roach and another pursuant
to an oral contract with the Showtime Defendants. Roach did not file a reply
addressing Rueda’s argument about the separate contracts. Rueda has presented evidence
that the February 2015 communications only pertained to an advance, not the
finder’s fee itself, and that regardless, his separate contract with Roach did
not contemplate future fights or tickets. Accordingly, because the Court must
view the evidence in the light most favorable to the Plaintiff, Rueda has
raised a triable issue of material fact regarding whether there was a meeting
of the minds on the finder’s fee agreement.
V. Conclusion
Defendant Freddie Roach’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s
Ninth Cause of Action is DENIED.
Defendant Freddie Roach’s Joinder to Keith Davidson’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
Defendant Freddie Roach’s Joinder to Defendants Showtime Networks Inc.’s
and Paramount Global’s Renewed Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s
First, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action is DENIED.