 Case Number:  24SMCP00411    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           FanfixApp, et
al., v. Passes Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00099
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Compliance; Motion to Seal
HEARING DATE:   12/17/2024

 
Legal
Standard
If a party permits inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents in response to a request for production of documents, but thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance. (CCP § 2031.320(a).) The court “shall” impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §
2031.320(b).)
 
Further, the court has the general authority to compel obedience to
its judgments, orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge out of court,
in an action or proceeding pending therein. (CCP §128(a)(4).)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiff Fanfixapp LLC moves to compel Defendant Nofhotos Group LLC to
comply with the Court’s October 17, 2024, Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
Order (the “Order”).
 
Plaintiff contends that the parties agreed, and the Court ordered,
that Defendant would turn over the electronic devices of Alec Celestin
(“Celestin”) to a forensic examiner for inspection. Simply put, the record does
not reflect the Court ordering the turn over of electronic devices. The order
relevantly states: “During the IDC, the parties agree that they would meet and
confer to select a forensic examiner for Defendant’s electronic devices so that
further discovery responses could be provided. Defendant further agrees that
Plaintiff’s deadline to file any motion to compel further will be extended an
additional 30 days.” (10/17/24 Minute Order.) As such, the parties did not
agree that Celestin would turn over his electronic devices. The parties instead
agreed to meet and confer to select a forensic examiner so that further
discovery responses could be provided. The parties apparently complied
by meeting and conferring, but they did not come to any agreement on the
responses or production, and negotiations broke down since Celestin refused to
turn over his electronics. If the parties were unable to come to an agreement,
then Plaintiff was permitted to file “any motion to compel” within an
additional 30 days. No such motion was filed.
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
Motion to Seal
Passes’
request that the Court seal a portion of Passes’ cross-complaint, specifically,
Page 4:10-16; Figure 1.  California Civil
Code section 3426.5 provides that in an action under the Uniform Trade Secrets
Act “a court shall preserve the secrecy of an alleged trade secret by
reasonable means, which may include . . . sealing the records of the action[.]”
(Civ. Code § 3426.5.)  Here, the request
aligns with the protection mandated by Section 3426.5, and makes the factual
showing required by CRC 2.550(d) and 2.551(b)(1). 
The
proposed sealing of portions of Passes’ Cross-Complaint is narrowly tailored,
and the overriding interests in protecting the confidentiality of the
information contained therein cannot be achieved through less restrictive
means. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED