  Case Number:  19STCV23747    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



J.G., a minor by
  and through his Guardian ad Litem, S.F., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 19STCV23747 (c/w  20STCV01832 and 19STCV30462; r/w 23TRCV02505)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
 
Date: May 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
A.C., a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, S.F., and M.M., a minor,
by and through his Guardian ad Litem, M.C.
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers
and opposition papers. No reply has been received.
 
BACKGROUND
             These consolidated actions involve various
plaintiffs who have sued Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”) based on allegations of sexual abuse perpetrated by Defendant Daniel
Ayon (“Ayon”), who was employed as an afterschool staff coordinator. Similar
facts are alleged in the related case M.M. v. Los Angeles Unified School
District, et al. (Case No. 23TRCV02505).
 
            Now, Plaintiffs in the consolidated
cases seek to further consolidate case no. 23TRCV02505 with case no.
19STCV23747.
 
DISCUSSION
            California Rules of Court Rule 3.350 sets forth the procedural
requirements for bringing a motion to consolidate.  The notice of motion
must: “(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who
have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (B)
Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the
lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought to
be consolidated.” The motion itself need only be filed in the lowest numbered
case.  (CRC rule 3.350(a)(2).)  All motion documents must
nevertheless be served together with the notice on all attorneys of record and
all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated. (Id.)
A proof of service must be filed as part of the motion.  (Id.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1048(a) provides: “When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”¿ “A consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the parties.
The purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience and economy
by avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues
common to both actions.”¿ (Wouldridge v. Burns (1968) 265
Cal.App.2d 82, 86.) 
Procedural Compliance
As
a preliminary matter, the instant motion is not procedurally proper pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rule3.350 because the notice of motion was not filed
in the related action. However, this defect is minor and shall be excused
because all parties have been served. (Motion, Proof of Service.)
 
Additionally,
it is noted that the instant motion had been filed before 19STCV23747 and 23TRCV02505
were deemed related. Nevertheless, since then, the causes have been deemed
related. (See May 9, 2024 Minute Order.) Thus, the instant motion can be heard.

 
            Merits
Here,
Plaintiffs argue that consolidation of these actions is warranted because they
present overlapping issues and are based on the same facts. (Motion at pp. 6-7.)
In particularly, they argue that the same causes of actions have been alleged
as well as the same defendants. (Id. at pg. 6.)  Furthermore, the same wrongful conduct that
occurred to Plaintiff M.M as alleged in case no. 23TRCV02505 is alleged to have
happened to the plaintiffs in the consolidated actions. (Id. at pp.
6-7.) They are further alleged to have occurred during the same period while the
plaintiffs attended the Beyond the Bell after-school program. (Ibid.) 
            
            In opposition, LAUSD argues that it
will be unduly prejudiced because it will be limited in conducting necessary
discovery based on the current trial date and due to the fact that the
consolidated cases are pressing up against the five-year deadline statute.
(Opposition at pg. 3.) This includes deposing the plaintiff in 23TRCV02505, his
guardian, relevant witnesses and completing written discovery and the
plaintiff’s independent medical examination. (Ibid.) However, within the
motion, Plaintiffs point out that much of the discovery that has already been
taken would apply and be relevant to case no. 
23TRCV02505. (Motion at pg. 8.) 
 
            In light of the extensive amount of
discovery already conducted in the consolidated cases, and the fact that there
are common questions of law and fact amongst these cases, the Court finds that
consolidation is warranted to promote judicial efficiency. (Wouldridge, supra, 265 Cal.App.2d at 86.) While Court
acknowledges the concerns raised by LAUSD regarding the need to complete
discovery, trial is currently set for November 12, 2024. Because of the overlap
in discovery represented by Plaintiffs, it is unlikely that significant
discovery remains. Furthermore, because the five-year deadline would apply to
certain actions, Plaintiffs would be incentivized to conduct any remaining
discovery in an efficient manner. 
 
            Accordingly, because case nos.
19STCV23747 and 23TRCV02505 involve common issues of fact and law and LAUSD
will not be unduly prejudiced, the instant motion to consolidate is GRANTED.   The Court notes, however, that if the parties
are unable to complete discovery before the trial date, the Court will consider
that fact in deciding if the trial date should be continued.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 28th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



