..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV30751
Plaintiff's Name: Aisha Jeter, Daniel Ernan Jacob Jeter, Elijah David Massey
Defendant's Name: 6325 8th Avenue, LLC, Malin Asset Management, Inc.
People-Names: Aisha Jeter, Daniel Ernan Jacob Jeter, Elijah David Massey
Company-Names: 6325 8th Avenue, LLC, Malin Asset Management, Inc.
Places: 6325 8th Ave, Los Angeles 90043
Dates: December 18, 2023, September 23, 2020, July 18, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Motion to Strike, Hearing
Money: Not specified
Intentions: To determine the sufficiency of the complaint and strike irrelevant or improper matters
Facts: Vermin infestation, dampness, moisture, and mold in the rental unit, defective plumbing, smoke detectors, and crumbling walls and floors
Disputes: Whether the complaint states a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress and breach of warranty and covenant
Acts: Filing of demurrer and motion to strike, submission of declaration
Agreements: Lease agreement between defendants and Elijah David Massey's parents
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Family Code, Civil Code section 1942.4
Case Citations: Coyne v. Krempels, Young v. Gannon, Serrano v. Priest, Picton v. Anderson Union High School District, Hahn v. Mirda, Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc., Hughes v. Pair, Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments, McNairy v. C.K. Realty, Danger Panda, LLC v. Launiu, Mt. Hawley Ins. Co. v. Lopez
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.10, 435, 436, 437, California Family Code sections 6701, 6712
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements:
* The complaint does not describe conduct that exceeds all bounds of what might ordinarily be tolerated.
* A tenant may recover against her landlord for intentional infliction of emotional distress in extreme cases, such as direct threats of violence against tenants or knowing permission for severe habitability problems to persist across many buildings and units.
* The terms of sections 6701 and 6712 are clear, and they do not permit Massey to sign a rental agreement with defendants.
```
And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer and motion to strike filed by defendants 6325 8th Avenue, LLC and Malin Asset Management, Inc. in a case brought by plaintiffs Aisha Jeter, Daniel Ernan Jacob Jeter, and Elijah David Massey.

The plaintiffs sued the defendants for negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, breach of the implied warranty of habitability, tortious breach of same, private nuisance, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, unfair business practices, and premises liability.

The defendants demurred to several causes of action, arguing that the plaintiffs failed to allege extreme or outrageous conduct in the second cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress and that Elijah David Massey, a minor, cannot state claims based on the defendants' lease agreement with his parents.

The judge sustained the defendants' demurrer to the second cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, finding that the conduct alleged in the complaint does not exceed the bounds of what might ordinarily be tolerated.

The judge also sustained the defendants' demurrer to the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action, finding that Elijah David Massey, as a minor, cannot sign a rental agreement with the defendants and therefore cannot state claims based on the lease agreement.

The judge denied the defendants' motion to strike as moot, since the demurrer was sustained and the motion was no longer necessary.

The judge gave the plaintiffs 30 days to amend their complaint to clarify Elijah David Massey's rights on the contract, if any.
