 Case Number:  23AHCV02419    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JAMES BROOKS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
WALMART,
   INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02419
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   14, 2025



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 18, 2023, plaintiff James
Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Walmart, Inc.
(“Defendant”). On December 3, 2024, Petrona Brooks (“Brooks”) moved to be
appointed as Plaintiff’s successor in interest. Brooks declares that Plaintiff
passed away on September 6, 2024. 
On December 30, 2024, Defendant filed
an opposition brief.
No reply brief is on file. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“A cause of action that survives the
death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the
decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.30.)  After the death of a plaintiff,
the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be
continued by the decedent’s personal representative or
successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 377.31.)
The person who seeks to commence or
continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute
and file an affidavit or declaration stating: (1) the decedent’s name, (2) the
date and place of decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4) a copy of the
final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered, (5) either
the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the affiant
or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true,
under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Brooks declares that she is Plaintiff’s
surviving daughter and that he passed away on September 6, 2024. (Brooks Decl.,
¶ 2.) She declares no proceeding is now pending for the administration for his
estate and that no persons other than herself has a superior right to be
substituted for him in this proceeding. (Brooks Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.) 
In opposition, Defendant argues that the
declaration is insufficient and that she “must be required to clarify the facts
in support of her motion.” (Opp., p. 3.) In particular, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff was legally married when he passed away, and that his widow, referred
to only as “Patricia”, could have a superior right to be substituted for
Plaintiff. (See Prob. Code, § 6401 [difference in intestate share of
decedent’s separate property left to surviving spouse depending on different
circumstances].) 
Brooks did not submit a reply, which
the Court construes as a concession that Defendant’s arguments have merit. Therefore,
the motion to substitute Brooks as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest is DENIED
without prejudice. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.

Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 14th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 