  Case Number:  22AHCV00467    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM ZHANG, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KEMI
   CAI, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00467
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR
   PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS BY DEFENDANT NICK CHUI; REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   14, 2025



 
On July 15,
 2022, plaintiff William Zhang (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendant Nick Chui (“Defendant”). On March 29,
 2024, Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set
Two on Defendant. Despite extensive communications with
Defendant’s attorney about overdue responses, no responses have been received.
This motion was filed on October 17, 2024. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) 
In opposition, Defendant
argues that responses were served within 2 weeks after this motion was filed.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion is DENIED as moot. 
Sanctions may be awarded under in favor
of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed. (C.R.C.
3.1348.) Defendant argues that sanctions should not be imposed because the
parties were in communication about the missing discovery responses in October
2024 when the motions were filed. This is insufficient to show that sanctions
are not warranted because the discovery requests were propounded in March 2024.
Nevertheless, the amount requested by Plaintiff is excessive. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against
Defendant in the reduced amount of $560
for 1
hour at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $500
and $60
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 14th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 