 Case Number:  24PSCV00938    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
LRA, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED in part with leave to
amend (i.e., as to 5th COA for IIED), SUSTAINED in part
without leave to amend (i.e., as to 2nd COA for breach of covenant
of quiet enjoyment (as agreed by Plaintiffs to be stricken)), and OVERRULED
in part (i.e., as to 1st COA, 3rd COA, and 4th
COA). 
 
Background
 
This is a
habitability case. Plaintiffs BRIANA GARCIA, an individual; MARIA ANA YELi
GARCIA CASTILLO, an individual; and ELIJAH GARCIA, a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem BRIANA GARCIA allege the following against Defendant LRA,
LLC: In around December 2020, the parties entered into a rental agreement.
However, the property has “a severe cockroach infestation; a severe spider
infestation; aggressive mold contamination; lack of plumbing maintained in good
working order; lack of heating facilities maintained in good working order; and
complete deterioration and crumbling of the structure as a whole due to
deterioration, water damage, and/or improper maintenance.” (Complaint ¶15.) Despite Plaintiffs’ complaints
about the foregoing hazards, Defendant has “not responded at all or have
responded ineffectively.” (¶26.) 
 
On March 19,
2024, Plaintiffs filed suit asserting the following causes of action (COAs): 1.     Tortious Breach of Warranty of
Habitability 2.     Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 3.     Negligence 4.     Nuisance (Intentional Tort) and 5.     Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (IIED)
 
On May 13,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.
 
On June 3,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On June 7,
2024, Defendant filed its reply.
 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41 provides:  
 
a.   
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. … 
 
Here, on
April 26, 2024, Defense Counsel sent a meet and confer letter, but Plaintiff
did not respond. Plaintiffs do not maintain otherwise in opposition. For any
future motions/hearing, the court orders the parties/Plaintiffs to meet and
confer.  
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the entirety of the complaint on the grounds that each COA fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a COA (Code of Civil Procedure §§
430.10(e)) and the complaint is subject to a special demurrer on the grounds of
uncertainty. (§ 430.10(f).) 
 
A.    CCP section 430.10, subdivision (e)
 
1st
COA: Tortious Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
 
To prove a claim
for breach of warranty of habitability, a tenant must allege (1) an
uninhabitable condition; (2) actual knowledge by landlord or constructive
knowledge; and (3) damages. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
903, 918-919.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
have asserted multiple uninhabitable conditions including a severe cockroach
infestation, aggressive mold contamination, lack of plumbing and heating
facilities maintained in good working order, and deterioration and crumbling of
the structure as a whole due to deterioration, water damage, and/or improper
maintenance. (See also Opp. p. 4.) As for damages, they have asserted those
include, but are not limited to, insect bites, allergic reactions to the
conditions of the subject property, and insomnia. (Complaint p. 5.) 
 
To the extent that Defendant argues Plaintiffs
have provided a “generic complaint” (Demurrer p. 7:21-22) and that it is
“entitled to more comprehensive details” (Reply p. 3:10-11), it advances this
proposition without citation to any instructive authority.
 
To the extent
that Defendant argues SB 235 requires “Plaintiffs and LRA not only to make
initial disclosures but also to disclose witnesses and documents that are
relevant to (including potentially harmful to) their case” (Reply p. 3:12-18),
this argument fails on two counts. First, advancing new arguments in
reply is improper. (Ponte v. County of Calaveras (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
551, 554, fn. 1, citing Kahn v. Wilson (1898) 120 C. 643, 644.) Second, a review of SB 235
indicates that it pertains to discovery. The court at this juncture,
however, is concerned with pleading standards, not discovery. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer is overruled as to the 1st COA.
 
2nd
COA: Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
 
To be
actionable, the landlord's action or omission must substantially interfere with
a tenant’s right to use and enjoyment the premises for the purposes
contemplated by the tenancy. The covenant is breached when there is an eviction,
either actual or constructive, of the tenant. (Demurrer pp. 9-10, citing
Marchese v. Standard Realty & Development Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d
144, 148.) An actual eviction occurs when there is an expulsion or ouster of
the tenant by the landlord. (Demurrer p. 10, citing Giraud v. Milovich
(1938) 29 Cal.App.2d 543.) A constructive eviction occurs when there is a
substantial or material interference with tenant’s use of the premises, causing
the tenant to vacate. (Demurrer p. 10, citing Stoiber, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at pp. 925-926.) 
 
Here, as
Plaintiffs remain in possession and have not alleged facts that they were asked
to relocate, Plaintiffs concede that their 2nd COA fails. Plaintiffs
intend to amend their Complaint by eliminating the 2nd COA for
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment.
 
Therefore,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the 2nd COA. 
 
3rd
COA: Nuisance (Negligence)
 
To state a
cause of action for nuisance, a plaintiff must allege that the (1) conduct that
interfered with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of property, (2) an invasion of
plaintiff’s interest that is substantial thereby causing plaintiff to suffer
substantial actual damage, and (3) the interference is unreasonable in its
nature, duration, or amount. (Opp. p. 5, citing San Diego Gas & Electric
Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 937-38.) 
 
Here, for
similar reasons as explained in the 1st COA, Plaintiffs have pled
a valid nuisance COA. 
 
Therefore,
the court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the 3rd COA.
 
4th
COA: Nuisance (Intentional Tort)
 
“A nuisance
may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.” (Stoiber, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at p. 920.) 
 
Here, for
similar reasons as explained above, Plaintiffs have pled a viable
nuisance/intentional tort COA.
 
Therefore,
the court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the 4th COA.
 
5th
COA: IIED
 
Both parties
cite to Stoiber and Stoiber has established that a landlord can
be sued for intentional infliction of emotional distress “if the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and
result in severe mental distress.” (Id, at p. 922.) 
 
Here, the court finds that the
IIED COA could use additional facts to establish how Defendant’s conduct
allegedly “exceeds all bounds usually tolerated by a decent society.” (Id. at p.
921.) “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (Ibid.) 
 
For example, as observed by the Stoiber court, facts sufficient
for IIED include evidence that after a plaintiff opposed rent increases, the
landlord insulted the plaintiff and directed she vacate the premises or
else the landlord would “handle this the way [they] do down South.” (Id. at
p. 921, citing Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d
288, 297-298.) Or, after a plaintiff exercised his right to “repair and deduct”
the landlord increased rent. (Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at
p. 921, citing Aweeka v. Bonds (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 278, 281.) Here, Plaintiffs have not
provided ultimate facts as to the complaints made and Defendant’s conduct
upon receiving such complaints.  
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the 5th COA with
leave to amend. 
 
B.     Special Demurrer (CCP section 431.10
(f)
 
Defendant
argues that the complaint is uncertain because it fails to state facts
including, but not limited to, as to (i) when the alleged violations occurred;
(ii) the dates Plaintiffs made complaints to Defendant; and (iii) the physical
injuries and emotional distress suffered. 
 
However, a
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the
pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the
complaint is not “so bad” that Defendant cannot respond to the issues.
Moreover, should any of the specifics be required, some of them are within
Defendant’s knowledge such as (a) The citations or safety violations or
code violations issued to LRA with respect to the Plaintiffs or the premises;
(b)When the citations or safety violations or code violations occurred; (c)
Which entity issued the citations or safety violations or code violations; (d)
The dates of Plaintiffs’ complaints to LRA and to whom the complaints were
made. (Opp. p. 10, citing Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811,
822.) 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer is overruled on the grounds of uncertainty. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in part. 
 
 
 
 