  Case Number:  21STCV32886    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OLLYE G. INGRAM,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ANTHONY THOMPSON, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV32886
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFFS’ RENEWED MOTION TO COMPEL
  DEFENDANT CENTAURUS FINANCIAL, INC.’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFFS’
  REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET ONE), AND FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date: July 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiffs Ollye G. Ingram; Holda M. Novelo; Esther
Dorothy Farmer; Steven B. Friedman; J. Roger Gorski; Charles Klipp and Margo
Klipp; Beatrice Vogel; Nickolas W. Vogel; Joachin D. Reich; and Raymond Jallow
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Centaurus Financial, Inc. (“Centaurus”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action stems from an allegedly failed private placement investment
in the Spring Gate Plaza Delaware Statutory Trust (“Spring Gate DST”).  Plaintiffs’ operative Second Amended Complaint,
filed on February 25, 2022, asserts causes of action for breach of fiduciary
duty and various statutory, tort and contract claims against multiple defendants,
including Centaurus.       
 
On
February 17, 2023, Plaintiffs served their Requests for Production, Set One
(“RFPs”) on Centaurus.  (Declaration of
Marc S. Ehrlich in Support of Plaintiffs’ Renewed Motion to Compel Further
Responses (“Ehrlich Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Plaintiffs assert that Centaurus served
unverified, “objection-only” responses to Plaintiffs’ RFPs.  (Id., ¶ 4.)
 
On
July 7, 2023, the parties stipulated to and participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference held by the Court, where parties stipulated to the entry
of the following order (“IDC Order”): 
 
Defendant
Centaurus Financial, Inc. (“CFI”) will serve further, complete, substantive,
Code-compliant and verified responses (“Further Reponses”) to Plaintiffs’ Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for
Admissions (Set One) and Requests for Production (Set One) (including
production of Bates-stamped documents, which shall be identified in the written
discovery responses) by close of business August 7, 2023; and
 
Plaintiffs
shall serve Further Responses to CFI’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), Requests for Admissions (Set One) and Requests for Production (Set One)
(including production of Bates-stamped documents, which shall be identified in
the written discovery responses) by close of business August 7, 2023.
 
  On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion to Compel Compliance with the Court’s IDC Order, alleging that Centaurus
served unverified supplemental responses to the RFPs that still consisted
almost entirely of objections.  (Ehrlich
Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. F.)  Centaurus
subsequently served a second supplemental response to the RFPs on November 17,
2023.  (Id., ¶12, Exh. I.)
  Plaintiffs
filed this Renewed Motion to Compel Further Responses and for Sanctions (the
“Motion”) on April 12, 2024, asserting that Centaurus’ Second Supplemental
Responses do not cure the deficiencies in its previous responses, and are still
not Code-compliant.  On July 2, 2024,
Centaurus filed its opposition to the Motion. 
Plaintiffs submitted a late reply on July 9, 2024.
             
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).)
 
Motions
to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a meet-and
confer-declaration (per Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040) demonstrating a
“reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Id.,
§§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) 
They must also be accompanied by a separate statement containing the
requests and the responses, verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response
is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must
also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by
reference.  (Id., rule 3.1345(c).)
 
A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court
(1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1) (Information is
discoverable if it is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and it is not
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.); Lipton v.
Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 (noting a party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence).)
 
Motion
            Plaintiffs assert that Centaurus’
second supplemental responses do not comply with the Code for the following
reasons: (1) Centaurus failed to provide complete due diligence files as
requested and improperly withheld known/identified responsive documents; (2) Centaurus’
responses to certain RFPs consisting of “N/A” do not indicate whether the
requested documents do not exist or whether Centaurus is objecting to the
requests and is refusing to produce such documents; and (3) Centaurus’
responses to certain RFPs merely including Bates ranges do not indicate whether
Centaurus is producing and/or has produced all or part of the responsive
documents currently in its possession, custody, or control; and (4) Centaurus’ responses
also advance meritless and boilerplate objections.  
 
Opposition
            In its opposition, Centaurus claims
that it complied with the IDC Order by producing the due diligence file
concerning Spring Gate DST consisting of 40,806 pages of documents. Centaurus argues
that it identified Bates stamp ranges for documents responsive to Plaintiff’s
RFPs, in accordance with the IDC Order which expressly indicated for Centaurus
to do so.  (Declaration of Lucas E.
Garcia in Support of Opposition to the Motion (“Garcia Decl.”), ¶¶ 9-13.)  Regarding its “N/A” responses to certain
RFPs, Centaurus explained that its second supplemental response was meant to supplement
and not supplant its first supplemental response, and that the two responses should
be read in tandem. It clarified that where the second supplemental response
stated “N/A”, it meant that the particular response was not being supplemented
beyond the first supplemental response.  
 
Centaurus
further asserts that the IDC Order did not specify for it to respond to
Plaintiffs’ RFPs without objections, and that it has rightfully objected based
on the attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product doctrine, among
others.  Importantly, Centaurus acknowledged
that it withheld certain documents, but that it did so because the withheld
documents are protected from disclosure by the attorney-client and
attorney-work product privileges, and that it properly disclosed the existence
of those privileged materials.  Centaurus
asserts that the only documents that were withheld are privileged
documents.  
 
Centaurus’
responses are not Code-compliant
Cal.
Code of Civil Proc., (“CCP”) § 2031.240 provides:
 
a)
If only part of an item or category of item in a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is objectionable, the response shall contain a
statement of compliance, or a representation of inability to comply with
respect to the remainder of that item or category.
(b)
If the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the
following:
(1)
Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or
electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the
demand to which an objection is being made.
(2)
Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection. If
an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked
shall be stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information
sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.
(c)
(1) If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the
information sought is protected work product, the response shall provide
sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that
claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.
(CCP §2031.240.)
 
Initially,
the written responses, including the supplemental responses to the RFPs are not
Code-compliant.  They not include the
statutory language, including instead vague portions of the required language
such as “Centaurus will produce non-privileged, non-objectionable documents
responsive to this request to the extent they can be located within its
possession, custody, or control after a reasonably diligent search” (Response
to RFP 58.)  Such language first implies
that no such “reasonably diligent search” (instead of the required “diligent
search and reasonable inquiry”) has in fact been conducted as of the time of
the response, but also that only “non-objectionable” responsive documents
(whatever that means) will be produced. 
This initial inadequate response is then “supplemented” by lists of
documents, without any verified response that the documents being produced
constitute all of the documents (diligently searched for) responsive to the
RFP.  The Court also notes that nowhere
do the responses state that all responsive documents are being produced,
only that “Centaurus will produce non-privilege, non-objectionable documents”
will be produced.  It must be clear from
the response that “all responsive documents” will be produced, except for those
identified with specificity and by Bates number in the privilege log discussed
below.  
 
Moreover,
because Centaurus claims that certain withheld documents are privileged, its
response must also but does not currently include enough factual information
for the other parties to assess the merits of that claim. Centaurus must serve
a privilege log on Plaintiffs, and no privilege log was not included in its
responses.  
 
It
is the burden of the party seeking to withhold documents based on the
attorney-client or work product privilege to establish the facts establishing
the privilege.  (D.I Chadbourne, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 729; Wellpoint Health Networks,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 123.  The privilege log must be sufficiently
specific to allow a determination as to whether a withheld document is, in
fact, privileged.  (Wellpoint Health
Networks, supra, at 130.)  The
privilege log must provide the identity and capacity of all individuals who
authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document, the document’s date,
a brief description of the document and its contents or subject matter
sufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the precise
privilege or protection asserted.  (Catalina
Island Yacht Club v Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130.)
 
Therefore,
the entire response (including the supplemental response) is inadequate and not
Code-compliant and is hereby ordered to be supplemented with a full, verified,
Code-compliant response to each RFP.  To
the extent that any documents are identified in those supplemental responses as
assertedly privileged, they must be identified on a privilege log.  All ordered further responses, together with
a privilege log and any supplemental produced documents are to be served on
Plaintiffs within twenty days of the date of this order.
 
Monetary Sanctions
If
the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to
compel further, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP
§§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Since
Centaurus’ responses are not Code-compliant, sanctions are appropriate.  Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions in the total
amount of $12,290.  (Ehrlich Decl., ¶¶ 17-25.)  The Court exercises its discretion and imposes
monetary sanctions against Centaurus and its counsel, jointly and severally, in
the reasonable amount of $3,100, consisting of 5 hours at $400 plus 2 hours at
$550.  This amount is due to be paid to
Plaintiffs within twenty days of the date of this order.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 11th day of July 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 