  Case Number:  23TRCV01147    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
PAUL
  WORKMAN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01147




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY OF
  LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 31, 2024  
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Paul Workman
Responding Party:                  Defendant The People of the
State of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
Motion
for Relief from Gov. Code §945.4 and Permission to File a Late Government Claim
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On April
19, 2023, plaintiff Paul Workman filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles,
T.C. Real Estate Ltd., and Coral Realty, Inc. for dangerous condition of public
property and negligence.  Plaintiff
alleges that on November 4, 2022, plaintiff was riding his bicycle through the
parking lot intending to ride onto the city sidewalk to continue his journey.  However, as plaintiff rode from the parking
lot toward the nearest crosswalk by the city sidewalk, the front wheel of his
bicycle reached a drop of approximately 11 inches between surface of the
parking lot and the surface of the city sidewalk.  Said drop was a concealed trap not marked in
any meaningful manner and constituted a dangerous condition since the drop in
elevation between the parking lot and the sidewalk could not be seen by
plaintiff.  As a result, plaintiff
flipped off his bicycle onto the sidewalk and sustained serious injuries.
On June
9, 2023, T.C. Real Estate Ltd. and Coral Realty, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against City of Los Angeles.
On July
3, 2023, City of Los Angeles filed a cross-complaint against T.C. Real Estate
and Coral Realty.
On
September 12, 2023, plaintiff filed an amendment designating ADR/Preferred
Business Properties as Doe 1.
On
December 13, 2023, the Court granted plaintiff’s motion for relief from Gov.
Code §945.4 as against State of California.
On
January 16, 2024, plaintiff filed amendments designating California Department
of Transportation as Doe 2 and State of California as Doe 3.
On March
30, 2024, defendants and plaintiff entered into a stipulation and the Court
ordered that the order dated December 13, 2023 be vacated, that the hearing on
the motion be rescheduled, and that the motion be re-served on State of
California and California Department of Transportation.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Before a suit for damages may be
filed against a public entity, a claimant must present a timely written claim
to the public entity and the claim must have been acted upon by the board or
deemed rejected.  Gov. Code §945.4; Munoz
v. State of Cal. (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1767, 1777.  A claim relating to a cause of action for
injury to person or personal property must be presented to the public entity
not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.  Gov. Code §911.2.  Munoz, supra, 33 Cal. App. 4th
at 1777.
If a claimant fails to present a
claim within the statutory period, he may apply “within a reasonable time not
to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action” to the public
entity for leave to present a late claim. 
Gov. Code §911.4.  If the public
entity denies leave to present a late claim, a claimant may petition the Court
under Government Code §946.6 for relief from the requirements of Government
Code §945.4.  Munoz, supra, 33
Cal. App. 4th at 1777.
Additionally, a petition pursuant
to Government Code §946.6 must be “filed within six months after the
application to the board is denied or deemed to be denied pursuant to Section
911.6.”  Gov. Code §946.6(b); see also City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 621, 627.  This requirement is mandatory.  Lineaweaver v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1983) 139 Cal. App. 3d 738, 741.
If the §946.6 petition is timely
filed, the court may relieve a claimant from the requirements of §945.4 if it
makes certain findings, including:  (1)
the claimant made a timely application to the public entity for leave to
present a late claim; (2) the application was denied; and (3) the failure to
timely present a claim was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.  Gov. Code §946.6(c).  In determining whether relief is warranted
under Government Code §946.6, the court considers the petition, any affidavits
submitted in support of or in opposition to the petition, and any other
evidence presented at the hearing.  Gov.
Code §946.6(e); Munoz, supra, 33 Cal. App. 4th at 1778.
“The
showing required for relief under [§] 946.6 because of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or excusable neglect is the same as required under [CCP] [§] 473 for
relieving a party from a default judgment.” 
Ebersol v. Cowan (1983) 35 Cal.3d 427, 435.
DISCUSSION
            Under
Gov. Code §946.6, plaintiff Paul Workman requests relief from the government
claims statute under Gov. Code §945.4 as against State of California.
            As
alleged in the complaint, the incident occurred on November 4, 2022.  The herein motion for relief was filed on
October 27, 2023 (and refiled on March 25, 2024).
            Plaintiff
explains that on December 2, 2022, plaintiff filed a timely government claim
against defendant City of Los Angeles, believing that the sidewalk and its curb
where the incident occurred, were within the possession and control of the City
of Los Angeles.  The City of Los Angeles
denied the claim on January 25, 2023, but did not indicate that the denial was
based on lack of possession or control over the site of the incident.  During discovery, defendants T.C. Real Estate
and Coral Realty responded on August 21, 2023 to plaintiff’s special
interrogatories that “based on information and belief the City of Los Angeles
or its contractors constructed the vertical drop.”  On September 26, 2023, defendant City of Los
Angeles responded to plaintiff’s form interrogatories that “[t]he construction
of the vertical drop was performed by State of California [Caltrans] or by
persons acting on behalf of the State of California” and that “[t]he subject
vertical drop is the property of State of California.”  Plaintiff argues that from the date of his
injuries through September 26, 2023, there was no reasonable way for plaintiff
to know that the 11” vertical drop in the curb was constructed by the State of
California and its department Caltrans.
            Plaintiff
asserts that on October 27, 2023, plaintiff filed a government claim against
the State of California and Caltrans, along with a Request for Leave to Present
a Late Claim.  Plaintiff contends that
due to the fact that the one-year limitation to file motions for relief from
the six months deadline to file a government claim will expire prior to the
45-days for the denial or acceptance of the claim and/or request, he seeks
relief.  He further contends that his
failure to timely present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect in that he and his counsel believed that the
City of Los Angeles was in control and possession of the public sidewalk, which
is located in the city of Los Angeles, where the incident occurred.
            In
opposition, defendant argues that plaintiff has not met his burden of showing
that his failure to file a timely claim was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect because he has not shown reasonable
diligence, including what if any investigation took place to identify what
public entities owned, controlled, maintained, or managed the location, other
than “seemingly assuming that the Incident Location was located within the City
of Los Angeles.”   Defendant contends
that plaintiff and his counsel had “easily available access to multiple sources
that would have identified that the stretch of Lincoln Boulevard where the
incident occurred is” CA-1, a state highway, including from multiple state
highway markers and Google Maps.
            In
reply, plaintiff argues that although plaintiff’s counsel may have made an
erroneous assumption that the City of Los Angeles is the sole owner of the
location because the location of the incident is a sidewalk at an intersection
that is owned and controlled by the City of Los Angeles, it was reasonable to
conclude that a sidewalk at a city street is within the responsibility  and ownership of the city.  Further, plaintiff contends, the crosswalk
button signage at the location indicates that it is controlled by the city and
two sewer covers on the two sides of the accident scene are embossed with the
city’s name.  Also, plaintiff asserts,
the work repair orders referred the work repair requests to the Los Angeles
Department of Transportation.  Plaintiff
also argues that counsel was diligent by sending a safety engineer expert who
inspected the scene in March 2023. 
Plaintiff further contends that in counsel’s experience, a denial of a
government claim based on “wrong entity” would have been indicated but it was
not in this case.  Plaintiff also points
out that the City of Los Angeles Fire Department responded to the incident and
the LA Police Department investigates collision accidents at the location.  See Etan Lorant decl. 
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that the §946.6 petition was timely filed.  See stipulation and order dated March 20,
2024. The Court also finds that the claimant made a timely application to the
public entity (State of California and Caltrans) for leave to present a late
claim.  Although the Court is unaware
whether the State denied the application, the Court also finds that the failure
to timely present a claim was the result of counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.