  Case Number:  21STCV44649    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Reclassify to Limited Jurisdiction             
 
Moving Party:             Richard Cartier (Defendant)  
Responding Party:      N/A     
Tentative Ruling:     
 Deny
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Bayron Enriquez Vazquez (Plaintiff) filed this action on
December 8, 2021, for personal injuries arising out of a motor vehicle accident
on July 28, 2020, alleging negligence.  Plaintiff
seeks special damages for the medical treatment he received as a result,
amounting to a $8,525.00, in addition to $3,500 in damages his vehicle
sustained. Plaintiff also estimates he will incur between $1,500 to $3,000 in
medical costs for future treatment. 
(Motion to Reclassify, Exh. A “Response to Interrogatory Form 1.1.”)
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendant Richard Cartier (“Defendant”) filed this motion to
reclassify the action as a limited jurisdiction action, arguing that Plaintiff does
not seek relief for costs above the $35,000.00 threshold for unlimited
jurisdiction.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to this motion.
 
ANALYSIS
I.               
Defects
As a preliminary matter, the court
notes Defendant’s notice was untimely.  Defendant’s
notice (p. 7) to Plaintiff reflects that service was provided to Plaintiff via
email on June 25—16 court days before the July 18 hearing.  Because service
made via email extends the notice period by 2 court days, Defendant was
untimely.  ((Code Civ. Proc., §
1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
II.            
Motion to Reclassify this Action as a
Limited Jurisdiction Action 
CCP § 403.040 governs
reclassification of civil cases. “The court shall grant the motion and enter an
order for reclassification, regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the
case has been classified in an incorrect jurisdictional classification.” (Code
Civ. Proc.,, § 403.040(a).) A case should only be reclassified from unlimited
to limited if the jurisdictional amount necessarily cannot be reached. (See
Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 270-71.) This is a high
standard that amounts to a “legal certainty.” (Id. at 270) “The court
may believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the amount demanded,
but this is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it appears to a legal
certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount which he has demanded.” (Id.)
CCP § 86(a)(1) classifies civil cases
as limited when the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value of the property
in controversy amounts to thirty-five thousand ($35,000) or less.  
A.             
Amount in
controversy
The court initially notes the jurisdictional amount increased to
$35,000 at the beginning of this year, but it does not appear the new statute
is retroactive.  (See Civ. Code §§
85-86.)  Thus, the central issue to determine whether to reclassify this
action as limited jurisdiction is whether it is a “legal certainty” that Plaintiff
cannot recover over $25,000.00 from this case. 
(Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 270.)  Whether the new
jurisdictional amount is retroactive and applicable to this case is immaterial,
as Defendant still would not meet their burden for the reasons discussed
below.   
Defendant points to Plaintiff’s responses to form 1.1
interrogatories to assert that the total relief sought does not reach the
jurisdictional amount required.  Namely,
Defendant indicates that Plaintiff incurred $12,025.00 in medical expenses and
vehicle damage so far, and estimates up to $3,000.00 in additional costs for
future medical expenses.  (Motion to Reclassify, Exh. A
“Response to Interrogatory Form 1.1.”) 
Defendant argues that because these total costs—amounting to $15,025.00—fall
below the minimum requirement for unlimited jurisdiction, this action should be
reclassified. (Memorandum
of Points and Authorities in Support of Reclassification p. 3.)  
Here,
it is not a “legal certainty” that Plaintiff will not recover over the
jurisdictional minimum.  Plaintiff’s
response to interrogatory no. 6.7 indicates that a healthcare provider advised
Plaintiff that they will have between $1,500 to $3,000 in future medical costs
attributable to Defendant, it does not speak directly to the issue of damages
Plaintiff is seeking in this action. 
More specifically, Plaintiff’s response to interrogatory no. 9.1 lists
that he requests recovery for general damages, pain and suffering, and future
medical expenses, all of which in the amount “to be determined.”  Defendant has not addressed the potential for
Plaintiff to recover for pain and suffering, nor the possibility that
Plaintiff’s future medical expenses will exceed the estimate his healthcare
provider provided.  Because of the
especially uncertain nature of personal injury cases, failing to address all of
Plaintiff’s bases for recovery is especially problematic—as Defendant did not conclusively
show Plaintiff cannot receive above threshold required for unlimited
jurisdiction.  In turn, Defendant has not
met the burden of showing the “legal certainty” required to reclassify the case
to limited jurisdiction.
RULING
            Based on the foregoing, the Motion to Reclassify is denied.