  Case Number:  21STCV43669    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




allie rose weinstein

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
francisco barrera

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV43669




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   23, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to third amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to third amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Joe Shuster (sued
as Doe defendant 19) and Ted Bessen (sued as Doe defendant 20) (joined by
defendant Sean Wolfington (sued as Doe defendant 21) on October 17, 2023)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy
Weinstein
(1)  
Demurrer
to Third Amended Complaint
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (sued as Doe defendant 17) and American Honda Finance
Corporation (sued as Doe defendant 16)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy
Weinstein
(2)  
Demurrer
to Third Amended Complaint 
The court considered the moving, joinder, opposition, and reply papers
filed in connection with each demurrer. 
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation and the court’s June 7, 2023
order, plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein (“A. Weinstein”) and Jeremy Weinstein (“J.
Weinstein”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint in this action, alleging eight causes of action for negligence
against, inter alia, defendants Sean Wolfington (“Wolfington”), Joe
Shuster (“Shuster”), Ted Bessen (“Bessen”), American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(“Honda”), and American Honda Finance Corporation (“Honda Finance”).[1]

            Two sets of responsive pleadings are
now pending before the court.  First,
defendants Shuster and Bessen, joined by defendant Wolfington (collectively,
“Dealer Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for negligence (count IV).  Second, defendants Honda and Honda Finance
(collectively, “Honda Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for negligence (count III). 
DEMURRER FILED BY DEALER DEFENDANTS
The court overrules Dealer Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for negligence (count IV) because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged the elements of duty
and causation.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687 [“The
elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate
cause, and damages”].) 
First, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing that Dealer Defendants owed them a
duty of care. 
Pursuant to Civil Code
section 1714, “[e]veryone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her
willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want
of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person,
except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought
the injury upon himself or herself.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) 
This statute “articulates a general duty of care.  But exceptions can be recognized when
supported by compelling policy considerations.” 
(Kuciemba v. Victory
Woodworks, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
993, 1021.)  
The court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing that (1)
Dealer Defendants owed a general duty of care to Plaintiffs pursuant to Civil
Code section 1714, and (2) the factors set forth in Rowland v. Christian (1968)
69 Cal.2d 108, 113 (“Rowland”) do not support limiting that duty.
 (TAC ¶ 116.)
The following Rowland factors are evaluated to determine whether policy considerations
support “a departure from Civil Code section 1714’s default rule of duty[:] . .
. ‘the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that
the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.’”  (Kuciemba, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1021.)  “‘The most important factor to
consider in determining whether to create an exception to the general duty to
exercise ordinary care articulated by [Civil Code] section 1714 is whether the
injury in question was foreseeable.’”  (Id. at p. 1022.)  In making this
determination, the court focuses “not on particularities of the defendant’s
conduct and the plaintiff’s injury, but on ‘whether the category of negligent
conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of harm
experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed . . . .’”  (Ibid.; Gilead Tenofovir Cases (2024)
98 Cal.App.5th 911, 158 [same].)  
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that (1) nonmoving defendant Francisco
Barrera (“Barrera”) purchased the subject vehicle from Dealer Defendants; (2)
Dealer Defendants knew that Barrera did not have a valid driver’s license at
the time that he purchased the vehicle; (3) Dealer Defendants knew and understood
that Barrera would be driving the vehicle despite not having a valid driver’s
license; (4) Dealer Defendants knew or should have known that Barrera was
incompetent or unfit to drive the subject vehicle; and (5) Dealer Defendants
breached their duty to exercise reasonable care in the operation, use,
maintenance, repair, ownership and entrustment of the subject vehicle.  (TAC ¶¶ 9, 31, 114-119, 121.)   The
court finds that these allegations establish that it was foreseeable to Dealer
Defendants, in selling the subject vehicle to Barrera with the knowledge that
he was unlicensed and would continue to drive the vehicle while unlicensed,
that (1) Barrera would operate the subject vehicle incompetently, including by
driving the vehicle through a red light, and/or (2) Barrera was unfit to drive
the subject vehicle, thereby causing harm to persons such as Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶¶ 115-116, 118-119, 120; Kuciemba,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1022.) 
The court further finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts showing that
they have suffered injury, and that Dealer Defendants’ conduct is closely
connected to Plaintiffs’ injuries because they sold Barrera the vehicle that he
was incompetently driving when he struck plaintiff A. Weinstein.  (TAC ¶¶ 114-119, 123-125; Kuciemba,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1023-1024.) 
The court also finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts showing that
Dealer Defendants could have taken steps to avert the foreseeable harm (i.e.,
by refusing to sell the vehicle to a driver they knew was unlicensed and was
going to drive the vehicle) and therefore have alleged moral culpability on
their part.  (TAC ¶¶ 114-119; Kuciemba,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1025 [courts have stated that, “if there were
reasonable ameliorative steps the defendant could have taken, there can be
moral blame attached to the defendants’ failure to take steps to avert the
foreseeable harm”] [internal quotations omitted].)  The court recognizes the policy of preventing
future harm caused by unlicensed drivers that were able to purchase vehicles,
while unlicensed, from dealerships that knew of their lack of licensure and their
intent to drive without obtaining a license. 
(Kuciemba, supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1021, 1026.)  Finally, the court finds that (1) imposing
liability on defendants for the harm caused by their selling vehicles to a
person they know does not have a driver’s license and will drive the vehicle
without a license would not impose an undue burden on Dealer Defendants or the
community, and (2) the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance supports
imposing liability on Dealer Defendants because car dealerships are likely to
have commercial liability insurance.  (Kuciemba,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1021, 1027.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing
that Dealer Defendants owed a legal duty of care to Plaintiffs. 
            Second, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing that Dealer Defendants proximately
caused Plaintiffs’ injuries. 
            “‘ “[T]he doctrine of proximate
cause limits liability; i.e., in certain situations where the defendant’s
conduct is an actual cause of the harm, the defendant will nevertheless be
absolved because of the manner in which the injury occurred. . . .  Rules of legal cause . . . operate to relieve
the defendant whose conduct is a cause in fact of the injury, where it would be
considered unjust to hold him or her legally responsible.” ’”  (Novak v. Continental Tire North America (2018)
22 Cal.App.5th 189, 196.)  Policy
considerations contemplated by the doctrine of proximate cause include (1)
whether a defendant should be held liable for unforeseeable consequences, and
(2) whether intervening forces caused a plaintiff harm.  (Id. at pp. 196, 197.) 
            As set forth above, the court has
concluded that Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing foreseeability.  Moreover, the court finds that, even though
Barrera is alleged to have been the driver that directly hit plaintiff A.
Weinstein, the allegations do not show that his conduct constitutes an
intervening force that would support absolving Dealer Defendants of
liability.  Barrera’s conduct (1) did not
“bring[] about harm different in kind from that which would otherwise have
resulted from the actor’s negligence;” (2) did not bring about consequences
that were “extraordinary” or attenuated because, as set forth above, it was
foreseeable that supplying an unlicensed driver with a vehicle could result in
the driver’s failure to competently and safely operate a vehicle; and (3) did
not occur independently of a situation caused by Dealer Defendants since they
sold the vehicle to Barrera with knowledge that (i) he was unlicensed and (ii)
would continue to drive the vehicle while unlicensed.  (TAC ¶¶ 118, 120, 123; Novak, supra,
22 Cal.App.5th at p. 197 [setting forth elements that are weighed in
determining whether an intervening force is a superseding cause of harm to the
plaintiff].) 
            Third, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for loss of
consortium by plaintiff J. Weinstein against Dealer Defendants.  (Tucker v. CBS Radio Stations, Inc. (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1256 [loss of consortium claims, if derivative of
negligence claims, fail or survive based on the underlying negligence claims].)
 
 
 
DEMURRER FILED BY HONDA DEFENDANTS
The court overrules Honda Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for negligence (count III) on the ground of uncertainty because this
cause of action is not ambiguous or unintelligible.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f); Notice
of Demurrer, p. 2:9.) 
The court overrules Honda Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for negligence (count III) because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged the elements of duty
and proximate cause.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Peredia, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p.
687 [elements of cause of action for
negligence].) 
First, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing the element of duty because
Plaintiffs have alleged facts showing that (1) Honda Defendants owed a
general duty of care to Plaintiffs pursuant to Civil Code section 1714 (TAC
¶ 104), and (2) the Rowland factors do not support limiting that
duty.  
            Plaintiffs have alleged that Honda
Defendants owned the subject vehicle at the time that it was sold to Barrera,
and permitted the sale of the vehicle to Barrera with the knowledge that he was
unlicensed and would continue to drive the vehicle without obtaining a proper
license.  (TAC ¶¶ 32, 101-102.)  The court finds that these facts show that it
was foreseeable to Honda Defendants, in permitting the sale of the subject
vehicle (which Plaintiffs have alleged was owned by Honda Defendants at the
time of the sale) to Barrera, knowing that he was unlicensed and would continue
to drive the vehicle while unlicensed, that Barrera (1) would operate the
subject vehicle incompetently, including by driving the vehicle through a red
light, and/or          (2) was unfit to
drive the subject vehicle, thereby causing foreseeable harm to persons such as
Plaintiffs.  (TAC ¶¶ 32, 101-102, 106,
107, 109-110; Kuciemba, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1022.)
            Further, as set forth in connection
with the court’s ruling on Dealer Defendants’ demurrer, the court finds that
Plaintiffs alleged facts showing that suffered injury.  (TAC ¶¶ 109-110; Kuciemba, supra,
14 Cal.5th at p. 1023.)  The court also
finds that Honda Defendants’ conduct is closely connected to Plaintiffs’
injuries since they permitted the sale of their property, i.e., the subject
vehicle that Barrera was driving when he struck plaintiff A. Weinstein, with
the knowledge that Barrera was unlicensed and planned to continue driving the
vehicle without obtaining a license. 
(TAC ¶¶ 101, 107.)  As with the
Dealer Defendants, the court (1) finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts
showing that Honda Defendants could have taken steps to avert the foreseeable
harm by refusing to sell their property to a driver that they knew was
unlicensed and planned to drive the vehicle without obtaining a license, and
therefore have alleged moral culpability on the part of Honda Defendants, and
(2) recognizes the policy of preventing future harm caused by unlicensed
drivers that were able to purchase vehicles, while unlicensed, from owners that
knew of their lack of licensure and their intent to drive the purchased vehicle
without obtaining a license.  (TAC
¶¶ 101 [alleging that Honda Defendants owned the vehicle at the time of
sale]; Kuciemba, supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1025 [courts have
stated that, “if there were reasonable ameliorative steps the defendant could
have taken, there can be moral blame attached to the defendants’ failure to
take steps to avert the foreseeable harm”] [internal quotations omitted],
1026.)  Finally, the court finds that (1)
imposing liability on defendants for the harm caused by their permitting the
sale of vehicles to a person they know does not have a driver’s license and
will drive the vehicle without a license would not impose an undue burden on
Honda Defendants or the community, and (2) the availability, cost, and prevalence
of insurance supports imposing liability on Honda Defendants because
vehicle-financing companies are likely to have commercial liability
insurance.  (Kuciemba, supra,
14 Cal.5th at pp. 1021, 1027.)
            Second, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing the element of proximate cause. 
            The court (1) has concluded, as set
forth above, that the injury to Plaintiffs was a foreseeable consequence of
Honda Defendants’ actions, and (2) finds that Barrera’s conduct does not
constitute a superseding cause of harm to Plaintiffs that would absolve Honda
Defendants of liability because (i) the consequences of Barrera’s actions were
not “extraordinary” since, as set forth above, it was foreseeable that
permitting the sale of their property to an unlicensed individual that planned
to continue driving while unlicensed would cause the type of harm suffered by
Plaintiffs, and (ii) Barrera’s conduct was not independent of Honda Defendants’
conduct since Honda Defendants provided Barrera with the subject vehicle.  (Novak, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 196 [foreseeability is a policy consideration subsumed within proximate
cause], 197 [elements used to determine if a superseding cause of harm may
absolve the defendant of liability].) 
            Third, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for loss of
consortium by plaintiff J. Weinstein against Honda Defendants.  (Tucker, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1256 [loss of consortium claims, if derivative of negligence claims, fail
or survive based on the underlying negligence claims].)
ORDER

The court overrules defendants Joe Shuster and Ted Bessen’s demurrer
to plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy Weinstein’s Third Amended
Complaint. 
The court overrules defendant Sean Wolfington’s joinder to demurrer to
plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy Weinstein’s Third Amended Complaint.

The court overrules defendants American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and
American Honda Finance Corporation’s demurrer to plaintiffs Allie Rose
Weinstein and Jeremy Weinstein’s Third Amended Complaint. 
The court orders defendants Joe Shuster, Ted Bessen, Sean Wolfington,
American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and American Honda Finance Corporation to file
an answer to plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy Weinstein’s Third
Amended Complaint within 20 days of the date of this order. 
The court orders plaintiffs Allie Rose Weinstein and Jeremy Weinstein
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 23, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


