 Case Number:  22STCV20562    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




judith ann langdon

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
tzvika diner

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV20562




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   23, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to deem requests for
  admission admitted
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Judith Ann Langdon             
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed 
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Judith Ann Langdon (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order (1) deeming admitted the truth of the matters specified in the Requests
for Admission served on defendant Tzvika Diner (“Diner”); (2) deeming admitted
the truth of the matters specified in the Requests for Admission served on
defendant David Porat (“Porat”); (3) deeming admitted the truth of the matters
specified in the Requests for Admission served on defendant OMYOMY, LLC
(“OMYOMY”); (4) deeming admitted the truth of the matters specified in the
Requests for Admission served on defendant Brilliant Marketing Consulting, Inc.
(“Brilliant Marketing”); and (5) awarding sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and
against defendants Diner, Porat, OMYOMY, and Brilliant Marketing (collectively,
“Defendants”) in the amount of $1,250.
If
a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the court shall, upon motion by the propounding party, order that the
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted unless the court finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served
substantially compliant responses before the hearing on the motion.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff
served Defendants, separately, with Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission on
December 15, 2023, by mail and email. 
(Andrews Decl., Ex. B [Requests for Admission to Diner], Ex. C [Requests
for Admission to Porat], Ex. D [Requests for Admission to OMYOMY], Ex. E
[Requests for Admission to Brilliant Marketing], Ex. F [Proof of
Service].)  Plaintiff had not received
responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Andrews Decl., ¶ 6.)  Defendants have not filed opposition papers
or other evidence with the court establishing that responses have since been
served. 
Thus, the
court finds that Defendants have not served responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Admission and therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b),
(c).) 
The court
grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  The court finds that $1,000 (2
hours x $500 hourly rate) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against
Defendants in connection with this motion. 
(Andrews Decl., ¶ 7.) 
ORDER
The court grants plaintiff Judith Ann Langdon’s motion to deem
requests for admission admitted. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b),
the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in plaintiff Judith
Ann Langdon’s Requests for Admission, Set One, served on defendant Tzvika
Diner, are deemed admitted. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b),
the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in plaintiff Judith
Ann Langdon’s Requests for Admission, Set One, served on defendant David Porat,
are deemed admitted. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b),
the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in plaintiff Judith
Ann Langdon’s Requests for Admission, Set One, served on defendant OMYOMY, LLC,
are deemed admitted. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b),
the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in plaintiff Judith
Ann Langdon’s Requests for Admission, Set One, served on defendant Brilliant
Marketing Consulting, Inc., are deemed admitted. 
The court orders defendants Tzvika Diner, David Porat, OMYOMY, LLC,
and Brilliant Marketing Consulting, Inc., jointly and severally, to pay
sanctions to plaintiff Judith Ann Langdon in the amount of $1,000 within 30
days of the date of service of this order. 
The court orders plaintiff Judith Ann Langdon to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 23, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court