  Case Number:  24VECV04558    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Georgi
  Dzneladze,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Silver
  Age Senior Living, et al.
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
24VECV04558           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Demurrer without Motion to Strike 
 




 


 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE
ABOVE CASE]: Overruled.

I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On or about January 2023, Plaintiff Georgi Dzneladze (“Plaintiff”)
and Defendants Silver Age Senior Living, Anna Hakobyan, David Hakobyan, and
Pogos Tofalyan (the “Silver Age Parties”) entered an agreement to sell Silver
Age Senior Living (the “Business”) to Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 13.) The Silver
Age Parties advised that: (1) the Business was “licensed to perform adult day
health care services with all appropriate licensing authorities”; (2) “the
license transfer for the business would take, approximately, three months”; (3)
“once the license transfer is complete, the parties would enter into a
management agreement whereby Anna Hakobyan and Pogos Tofalyan would manage the
business”; and (4) Plaintiff “would receive $10,000.00, at minimum, per month
as profit for owning the Business.” (Complaint ¶¶ 14-17.) 
 
On or around January 9, 2023, Plaintiff and the Silver Age
Parties executed a stock purchase agreement (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”) where
Plaintiff would pay a $150,000.00 purchase price. (Complaint ¶¶ 18-19.) Plaintiff
made a partial payment of $96,175.00 to Defendant Vitamin Club USA, which is
owned and controlled by Pogos Tofalyan. (Complaint ¶ 20.) Plaintiff also paid
$13,675.00 to the Business’ landlord. (Complaint ¶ 21.)
 
Plaintiff did not receive stock certificates, discovered
the Business was not licensed, and did not receive regular profits from the
Business. (Complaint ¶¶ 22-24.) Around December 2023, Plaintiff learned the
Business was permanently closed. (Complaint ¶ 25.)
 
The Silver Age Parties told Plaintiff that “they were
negotiating with potential buyers of the Business and [Plaintiff] would soon
make a profit.” (Complaint ¶ 28.)
 
On or around January 2024, the Silver Age Parties gave
Plaintiff a check for profits “from an account belonging to [Defendant] North
Hollywood Hospice.” (Compliant ¶ 30.) “The check was subsequently dishonored.”
(Complaint ¶ 30.)
 
On or around May 2, 2024, Plaintiff, Anna Hakobyan, and
Silver Age Senior Living entered a settlement agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”). (Complaint ¶ 33.) Tofalyan refused to be part of the Settlement
Agreement. (Complaint ¶ 32.) The Settlement Agreement provided that Plaintiff
would receive $175,000.00 in exchange “for a general release of all claims in
connection with the Stock Purchase Agreement.” (Complaint ¶ 34.) Silver Age
Senior Living and Anna Hakobyan “failed to tender any sums under the Settlement
Agreement.” (Complaint ¶ 38.)
 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants Silver Age Senior Living, Anna Hakobyan, David Hakobyan, Pogos
Tofalyan, Vitamin Club USA Corp., North Hollywood Hospice, Inc., and Does 1
through 50, alleging three causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2)
fraud and deceit; and (3) unjust enrichment.
 
On December 2, 2024, Defendant Pogos Tofalyan (“Defendant”)
demurred to the complaint. On December 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Defendant filed no reply.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
 
A.   
Timeliness 
 
“A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been
filed may, within 30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint,
demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿430.40(a).) When a party is served by substitute service, “[s]ervice . .
. is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.20(b).)
 
Per California Code of
Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed
at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto
should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to
any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set
hearing. 
 
Defendant was served by substituted service on October 26, 2024.
(Proof of Service filed 11/04/24.) The documents were mailed to Defendant on
October 28, 2024. Accordingly, service was deemed complete on November 7,
2024.  Defendant filed the demurrer on
December 2, 2024. Thus, Defendant’s demurrer was timely filed.
 
The demurrer and opposition were also timely filed under section
1005.
 
B.   
Meet and Confer 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the
filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in
the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith.
(Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)
 
Defendant states in the demurrer that:
 
POGOS TOFALYAN
attempted to meet and confer with plaintiff, GEORGI DZNELADZE via phone call
but to no avail, in compliance with CCP §430.41(a). Let the record reflect that
defendant POGOS TOFALYAN was willing and able to meet and confer with plaintiff
GEORGI DZNELADZE.
 
(Demurrer
p. 3.) 
 
Section
430.41 requires a declaration. Accordingly, Defendant’s statement within the
demurrer is insufficient.
 
However, Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4)
states that “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” Accordingly,
Defendant’s failure to file a declaration is not grounds to overrule the
demurrer.
 
III.          
LEGAL STANDARD
  
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it
contains “[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this
standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather
than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.) 
 
A party may demur to a complaint because the complaint “does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §
430.10(e).) 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Breach of
Contract
 
Defendant argues the first cause of action for breach of
contract fails to state a cause of action because Defendant “refused to be a
part of any settlement agreement.” (Demurrer pp. 4-5.) Defendant further argues
that the parol evidence rule bars consideration of the original agreement to
sell the Business because the Settlement Agreement contains a clause, stating:
“All prior representations and agreements, whether oral or in writing, have
been merged into and replaced by this agreement, and this agreement otherwise
supersedes any such prior representations and agreements.” (Demurrer pp. 4-5.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant cannot enforce
the integration clause in the Settlement Agreement because Defendant was not a
party to that agreement. (Opposition p. 2.) Plaintiff further argues that even
if Defendant can enforce the Settlement Agreement, the complaint alleges alter
ego and agency between Defendant and Silver Age Senior Living and “seeks
damages in connection with Silver Age Senior Living, Ana Hakobyan and Davit
Hakobyan’s breach of the settlement agreement.” (Opposition p. 3.) Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the parol evidence rule should not be considered here
because it is an evidentiary rule. (Opposition pp. 3-4.)
 
The elements of
a breach of contract cause of action are: (1) existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach;
and (4) resulting damage. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
Plaintiff and Defendants Anna Hakobyan and Silver Age entered into the
Settlement Agreement where Plaintiff would be paid $175,000.00 to release all
claims connected to the Stock Purchase Agreement. (Complaint ¶¶ 46-47.) Thus, the complaint alleges existence of a
contract.
 
Plaintiff further alleges “Defendants breached the
Settlement agreement by failing to provide any payment under its terms.”
(Complaint ¶ 48.) Thus, the complaint alleges breach of the contract.
 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ breaches, Plaintiff has been damaged in the amount of
$175,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 50.) Thus, the complaint alleges damages resulting
from the breach.
 
The complaint
alleges that Defendant “refused to be a part of any settlement agreement.”
(Complaint ¶ 32.) Thus, because Plaintiff does
not allege Defendant was a party to the Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff must
allege an alternative theory of liability.
 
Generally, “a corporation is regarded as a legal entity separate and
distinct from its stockholders, officers and directors.” (Toho-Towa Co.,
Ltd. v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1106.)
“Under the alter ego doctrine, however, where a corporation is used
by an individual or individuals, or by another corporation, to perpetrate
fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable
purpose, a court may disregard the corporate entity and treat the corporation's
acts as if they were done by the persons actually controlling the corporation.”
(Id. ) To allege an alter ego theory of
liability, a plaintiff must allege: (1) “that there is a sufficient unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and the individual or organization
controlling it that the separate personalities of the individual and the
corporation no longer exist”; and (2) “that treating the acts as those of the
corporation alone will sanction a fraud, promote injustice, or cause an
inequitable result.” (Misik v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1072.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges “Upon information and belief, there is a unity of interest and
ownership between Defendants Silver Age, Anna Hakobyan, David Hakobyan, Pogos
Tofalyan, Vitamin Club, North Hollywood Hospice and DOES 1 through 75 that
individuality and separateness amongst them ceased to exist at all times
relevant herein.” (Complaint ¶ 43.) Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants Silver Age, Vitamin Club, North
Hollywood Hospice and DOES 1 through 75 are completely controlled by Defendant
Anna Hakobyan and Pogos Tofalyan.” (Complaint ¶ 44.)
And Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants Pogos Tofalyan, Anna Hakobyan,
and David Hakobyan and DOES 1 through 75 derive actual and significant monetary
benefits from Defendants Silver Age, Vitamin Club, North Hollywood Hospice
through their unlawful conduct as stated herein and currently hide behind
corporate formalities to accomplish a wrongful or inequitable purpose.” (Complaint
¶ 44.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“Defendants Silver Age, Vitamin Club, North Hollywood Hospice and DOES 1
through 75 do not comply with all requisite corporate formalities to maintain a
legal and separate corporate existence from Defendants Anna Hakobyan, David
Hakobyan, and Pogos Tofalyan.” (Complaint ¶ 44.)
Finally, Plaintiff alleges “the business affairs of Defendants Silver
Age, Anna Hakobyan, David Hakobyan, Pogos Tofalyan, Vitamin Club, North
Hollywood Hospice, and DOES 1 through 75, and at all times relevant were, so
mixed and intermingled that the same cannot be reasonably segregated, and the
same are in inextricable confusion” and “[t]he recognition of the separate
existence of Defendants Silver Age, Vitamin Club, and North Hollywood Hospice
and DOES 1 through 75 would not promote justice, in that it would permit them
to insulate themselves from liability to Plaintiff for the acts alleged
herein.” (Complaint ¶ 44.) 
 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges there is sufficient unity of
interest between Defendant and Silver Age Senior Living such that their
separate personalities no longer exist. Plaintiff also sufficiently alleges
that treating Silver Age Senior Living’s acts as those of the corporation’s
alone would promote injustice.
 
Defendant also argues this court cannot consider the
original agreement relating to the sale of the Business because the Settlement
Agreement contains an integration clause. (Demurrer pp. 4-5.)
 
“The parol evidence rule generally prohibits the
introduction of any extrinsic evidence, whether oral or written, to vary, alter
or add to the terms of an integrated written instrument.” (Alling v.
Universal Manufacturing Corp. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1433.) “An
integrated agreement is a writing or writings constituting a final expression
of one or more terms of an agreement.” (Id.)  “The rule comes into operation when there is
a single and final memorial of the understanding of the parties. When that takes
place, prior and contemporaneous negotiations, oral or written, are excluded;
or, as it is sometimes said, the written memorial supersedes these prior or
contemporaneous negotiations.” (Id.) 
“The determination of whether the agreement in question is an
‘integrated’ – that is, whether it was intended by the parties as a final,
complete and exclusive statement of their agreement with respect to the terms
included in the agreement – is a question of law to be determined by the
court.” (Id.)  “Although the parol
evidence rule results in the exclusion of evidence, it is not a rule of
evidence but one of substantive law.” (Riverisland Cold Storage, Inc. v.
Fresno-Madera Production Credit Association (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1169, 1174.) 
 
There is “lingering uncertainty as to whether the parol
evidence rule permits a stranger to the contract to invoke the parol evidence
rule’s exclusionary provisions.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 608.) However, there is authority stating a third party may
invoke the parol evidence rule. (See Neverkovec v. Fredericks (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 337, 350 fn. 8.) 
 
“It
is a well understood concurrent rule that where parol evidence is entirely
consistent with and in no way changes or contradicts the written contract, it
should be admitted. [Citation]. The rule that a writing supersedes all
contemporaneous oral [ne]gotiations has no application to an independent
contract arising out of matters provided for in the written agreement.”  (Goble v. Dotson (1962) 203
Cal.App.2d 272, 276.)  As alleged in the complaint, “[t]he Stock Purchase
Agreement required, among other things, payment . . . of a $150,000.00 purchase
price.” (Complaint ¶ 19.) In contrast, the Settlement Agreement served as “a
general release of all claims in connection with the Stock Purchase Agreement
upon payment to [Plaintiff] of $175,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 34.) Defendant cites
no authority for the argument this court should exclude evidence of a contract
when the parties subsequently execute a settlement agreement releasing a
party’s claims under the contract. The references in the complaint to the Stock
Purchase Agreement do not appear to vary, alter, or add terms to the Settlement
Agreement.  Accordingly, this court is
not persuaded that the complaint’s references to the Stock Purchase Agreement
should be excluded under the parol evidence rule.
 
Thus, this court overrules the demurrer on this ground.
 
B.   
Fraud and
Deceit
 
Defendant argues the second cause of action for fraud and
deceit fails to state a cause of action because Defendant did not enter into
the Settlement Agreement. (Demurrer p. 7.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the fraud cause of action “relates
to the purchase and sale of the Business, not the Settlement Agreement.”
(Opposition p. 4.) 
 
The elements of a fraud cause of action are: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) Fraud elements must be alleged with particularity.
(Id.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 993.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Silver Age Parties, and
each of them specifically advised that Silver Age was a duly licensed to
perform adult day health care services with all appropriate licensing
authorities” and the “license transfer for the business would take,
approximately, three months.” (Complaint ¶¶ 54, 56.)
Plaintiff alleges these were misrepresentations because “Silver Age was not
licensed to perform adult day health care services” and the “license could not
be transferred because [the Silver Age Parties] knew no license existed.”
(Complaint ¶¶ 55, 58.) Accordingly, the complaint alleges the Silver Age
Parties made misrepresentations with knowledge of their falsity.
 
Plaintiff further alleges Plaintiff “relied on Defendants’
statements that Silver Age was licensed [and] that its license would be
transferred to enter into the Stock Purchase Agreement.” (Complaint ¶ 62.)
Thus, the complaint alleges justifiable reliance.
 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges “As a direct and
proximate result of the acts stated herein, [Plaintiff] has been damaged in the
amount of $150,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 83.)
Accordingly, the complaint alleges resulting damages.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not stated a cause of
action for fraud because Defendant did not enter into the Settlement Agreement.
(Demurrer p. 7.) However, the complaint alleges that Defendant was a party to
the agreement to sell the Business to Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 13.) And the fraud
and deceit cause of action allegations relate to the initial purchase of the
Business. (See Complaint ¶¶ 45-58, 62, 83.) 
 
Thus, the complaint sufficiently alleges a cause of action
for fraud. Accordingly, this court overrules the demurrer on this ground.
 
C.   
Unjust
Enrichment
 
Defendant argues the third cause of action for fraud and deceit
fails to state a cause of action because Defendant did not enter into the
Settlement Agreement. (Demurrer pp. 8-9.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the complaint does not
allege unjust enrichment in connection with the Settlement Agreement.
(Opposition p. 5.)
 
The elements of an unjust enrichment cause of action are:
(1) receipt of a benefit; (2) unjust or wrongful retention of the benefit; and
(3) at the expense of another. (Peterson
v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges Plaintiff transferred $96,175.00 to Vitamin Club USA and $13,675.00 to
the Business’ landlord. (Complaint ¶¶ 20-21.) As
noted above, the complaint alleges alter ego and that Defendant “is an officer
and director of Silver Age [and] Vitamin Club[.]” (Complaint ¶ 5.) Thus,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant received a benefit.
 
Plaintiff also alleges that the Silver Age Parties
“guaranteed [Plaintiff] would receive $10,000.00, at minimum, per month as
profit for owning the Business” and Plaintiff and the “Silver Age Parties
executed a stock purchase agreement on or around January 9, 2023” that
“required, among other things, payment . . . of a $150,000.00 purchase price.”
(Complaint ¶¶ 17-18.) Plaintiff further alleges that Plaintiff “never received
stock certificates after making full payment under the Stock Purchase
Agreement” and Plaintiff “did not receive regular Profits from the operation of
the Business.” (Complaint ¶¶ 22, 24.)  Thus,
Plaintiff alleges unjust or wrongful retention of the benefit and that it was
at Plaintiff’s expense.
 
Thus, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action for
unjust enrichment. Accordingly, this court overrules the demurrer on this
ground.
 
V.            
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court overrules the
demurrer.
 
 
 
January 2, 2025
 
__________________________________
                                                            Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
                                                                                    Los Angeles County Superior Court
 