  Case Number:  22VECV00082    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Melania
  Almonte, et al.,
      
         Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
April
  Moore, as trustee of the Panorama City Separate Property Trust, et al.,
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   22VECV00082            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING:
Motion
  to Compel



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
Granted
as to appearance of Plaintiffs at depositions (but not as to documents of which
production is sought). Granted as to sanctions against Plaintiffs and
Plaintiff’s counsel in the requested amount of $575.00.
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Melania
Almonte (“Almonte”) and Gloria Gonzales Almonte (“Gonzales Almonte” and,
together with Almonte, “Plaintiffs”) have lived at an apartment since 2002 that
is owned or managed by defendants April Moore, as trustee of the Panorama City
Separate Property Trust, (“Moore”) and Gregory Mizen, as trustee of the
Panorama City Separate Property Trust, (“Mizen” and, together with Moore,
“Defendants” and Defendants, together with Plaintiffs, “Parties”). (Complaint,
p. 2.) Plaintiffs have incurred injuries “as a result of the uninhabitable
conditions existing at the building.” (Ibid.)
 
On January 19,
2022, Plaintiffs initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of the warranty of habitability, (2)
negligent maintenance of premises, (3) nuisance, (4) breach of quiet enjoyment,
and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
On January 29 or
31, 2024, Defendants served notices of depositions on Plaintiffs seeking to
take both Plaintiffs’ depositions on February 16, 2024. (Motion p. 3, Exh. A;
Opposition p. 4.) On February 16, 2024, neither Plaintiff appeared for the
deposition and certificates of non-appearance were taken. (Id. at p. 3.)
Because trial is set for April 4, 2024, the discovery cut-off date was March 5,
2024. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020, subd. (a) [“[A]ny party shall be
entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before
the 30th day… before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”].)
 
On February 21,
2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to compel discovery (the “Motion”).
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the
Motion, and on March 8, 2024, Defendants replied to the Opposition.
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 

The Motion

 
Defendants contend that they are entitled to a court order compelling
Plaintiffs’ attendance at a deposition. (Motion pp. 3–4.) They argue that
Plaintiffs’ counsel “alleged he had another trial mere days before the
duly noticed depositions” and “has categorically refused to provide dates of
his clients’ deposition availability despite the looming trial date.” (Id.
at p. 4, emphasis original.) Defendants further argue that sanctions are
therefore warranted in the amount of their attorney’s fees and costs associated
with bringing the Motion (specifically, $575.00). (Ibid.) 
 

The Opposition

 
Plaintiffs contend
that the Motion is jurisdictionally defective because Defendants “failed to
file the required separate statement setting forth the reason why depositions
should be compelled since the request included a document production.”
(Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiffs argue that their counsel informed Defendants’
counsel that they would be unable to attend the deposition on the set date
because Plaintiffs’ counsel was engaged by a trial in another case. (Id.
at pp. 4–5.) “At all times, Plaintiff’s counsel made every attempt to work with
the Defendant’s attorney to avoid motion practice.” (Id. at p. 5.)
“Plaintiff’s counsel made [two] attempts to meet and confer with the
defendant’s counsel regarding the deposition and even agreed to produce the
Plaintiffs for shorter notice.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
do not include a meet and confer statement with the Motion and “Defendant[s]
did not advance any justifiable basis for proceeding with the deposition or for
filing this motion even after [being told that Plaintiffs’ counsel was busy in
trial].” (Id. at p. 6.) “Defendants do not set forth good cause for the
production of any documents.” (Ibid.) “The motion was served by e-mail
and/or fax on 12/21/17 [sic], providing only 13 court days’ notice.” (Id.
at p. 8.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendants did not act with “civility and
professionalism” in bringing the Motion. (Id. at p. 10.) Because the
Motion was “entirely unjustified,” Plaintiffs seek sanctions against Defendants
in the amount of their attorney’s fees and costs associated with opposing the
Motion (specifically, $6,924.25). (Id. at pp. 9–10.)
 

The Reply

 
Defendants begin by stating that “[d]espite repeated efforts by Defense
counsel to obtain deposition dates of both plaintiffs, and even after having
filed this instant motion, Plaintiffs’ counsel has still not provided
dates of his clients’ availability.” (Reply p. 2, emphasis original.) Then,
after calling the Opposition “excessively long,” Defendants allege that
“Plaintiffs’ counsel spent more time drafting an Opposition than simply meeting
and conferring with Defense counsel to provide dates.” (Ibid.) Defendants
explain that no separate statement is needed in this case and argue that
“Plaintiffs’ counsel failed timely object to the deposition notices.” (Ibid.)
Defendants contend that their counsel made reasonable efforts to meet and
confer. (Id. at p. 4.) “Defense counsel merely desires to take the deposition
of both plaintiffs prior to trial. Defendants are so entitled and merely seek
dates that plaintiffs are available for deposition.” (Ibid.)
 
III. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

The Separate Statement

 
Rule 3.1345, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court states,
“Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to
such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that
require a separate statement include a motion… [t]o compel answers at a
deposition.” Rule 3.1345, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court
states, “A separate statement is not required under the following
circumstances: (1) When no response has been provided to the request for discovery.”
 
The Motion does not seek to compel answers at a deposition, but rather
seeks to compel Plaintiffs’ appearances at the deposition. Plaintiffs’
non-appearances at the scheduled depositions makes this a case where no
response has been provided to the request for discovery. Thus, no separate
statement was required to be filed with the Motion.
 

Meet and Confer Efforts

 
No “meet and
confer” is required to compel initial deposition attendance, but there must be
“a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) "Implicit in the
requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and
make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue," including by
rescheduling.  (Leko v. Cornerstone
Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124; see also
L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26 (“[G]uidelines adopted by the Los Angeles County Bar
Association are adopted as civility in litigation recommendations.”).)
 
Defendants attach
to the Motion a declaration by their counsel that states he “diligently
attempted to obtain the dates to take plaintiff’s deposition before and after
the deposition dates, but plaintiffs’ counsel simply did not provide them.”
(Khurin Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendants’ counsel attaches copies of the
correspondences between Parties’ counsel as exhibits to his declaration, though
we note that none of the attached correspondences take place after the
deposition dates. (Khurin Decl. Exh. C.) Nonetheless, on the strength of the
Khurin Declaration, we are satisfied that this requirement has been met in good
faith.
 

Filing Fees

 
Defendants
filed a single motion for what should have been two separate motions. Combining
discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing
fees. “But while it is mandatory for the court clerks to demand and receive
statutorily required filing fees, it is not… a jurisdictional defect if the
precise fee is not collected.” (Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants are ordered to pay an additional filing fee.  
 
IV. ANALYSIS
 

Judicial Notice

 
“Judicial¿notice¿is
the recognition and acceptance by the court, for use by the trier of fact or by
the court, of the existence of a matter of law or fact that is relevant to an
issue in the action without requiring formal proof of the matter.” (Unruh-Haxton
v. Regents of University of California¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 364.)
“Judicial¿notice¿may not be taken of any matter unless authorized or required
by law.” (Cal. Evid. C. §¿450.) Matters subject to¿judicial¿notice¿are listed
in Cal. Evid. Code §§¿451–452. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp.¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) Judicial notice may be taken
of the “[r]ecords of… any court of this state.” (Cal. Evid. Code § 452,
subd. (d).) Further, judicial notice shall be taken of any matter in
Cal. Evid. Code § 452 requested by a party if the adverse party is given
sufficient notice and the court is furnished with sufficient information to
enable it to take judicial notice of the matter. (Cal. Evid. Code § 453.)
 
Plaintiffs request
in the Opposition that this court take judicial notice of another lawsuit “and
its docket,” apparently as proof that Plaintiffs’ counsel was engaged in a jury
trial in the week before the scheduled depositions. (Opposition p. 2.) In this
instance, first, we note the questionable relevance of the other lawsuit and
its docket, and second, we question whether, given that judicial notice was
requested with a single sentence in an opposition and that a copy thereof was
not provided with the Opposition, whether the adverse party has been given
sufficient notice of this request.
 
Accordingly, we
decline to take judicial notice of the other lawsuit or its docket.
 

Depositions

 
A motion to compel
deposition attendance and testimony or document production may be brought when
a party fails to appear for a deposition following service of a deposition
notice without having served a valid objection under Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2025.410. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410, subd. (a).) Any such
motion that seeks document production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production,” and if production of electronically
stored information is sought, the burden falls on the party opposing the motion
to show that “the information is from a source that is not reasonably
accessible because of the undue burden or expense.” (Id. at
§ 2025.410, subd. (b)–(c).) 
 
Defendants
properly bring the Motion under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410, subd. (a)
because the Motion follows Plaintiffs’ failure to appear for their depositions,
which followed service of the deposition notices without either deponent having
served any valid objections under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410. Both
deposition notices seek document production along with oral deposition
testimony, but Defendants do not include any specific facts or argument showing
good cause to justify such production. We observe that Defendants do not argue
for production of the requested documents in the Motion or the Reply but
emphasize that they merely “desire[] to
take the deposition of both plaintiffs prior to trial.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ request to compel the appearances of Plaintiffs at depositions as
sought in the Motion is GRANTED but Plaintiffs need not produce any of the
requested documents at their depositions.
 
\\

Sanctions

 
Sanctions are
mandatory in favor of the moving party and against the deponent, or the party
affiliated with the deponent or both, whose failure to appear at the deposition
necessitated the motion to compel the deposition “unless the court finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1); see also Cal. Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a)
[The court can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed.].) “If the party seeking a
monetary sanction meets its burden of proof, the burden shifts to the
opposing party attempting to avoid a monetary sanction to show that
it acted with ‘substantial justification.’” (Doe v. United States
Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1436.) “‘[S]ubstantial justification’
as used in the above statutes means a justification that is ‘well-grounded in
both law and fact.’” (Diepenbrock v. Brown (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 743,
747.) Behavior during discovery that is intended “for purposes of delay or
harassment, or [is] otherwise unreasonable,” for example, would point against a
finding of substantial justification. (Union Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 1, 15.) “As to the amount
of sanctions, Cal. C. Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a) authorizes
the trial court to impose an amount representing ‘the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result’ of a party's misuse
of the discovery process. (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.)
 
Here, since
Defendants prevailed on the Motion and sanctions are mandatory, the burden
shifts to the Plaintiffs to show they acted with substantial justification in
failing to produce the deponents for their noticed depositions. Plaintiffs
argue that they failed to respond to the deposition notices more than four days
before they were set because their counsel was in jury trial, which “fact was
made known to the Defendant’s counsel on 2/12/2024 and thereafter 2/14/2024,
that Plaintiff’s counsel was still in trial and that the depositions previously
set would not move forward.” (Opposition p. 2.) We remind Plaintiffs’ counsel
of his obligation to litigate each of his cases with equal diligence and note
that being busy is not an adequate excuse to avoid discovery sanctions. (See Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 269.) Parties exchanged
communications about the depositions’ scheduling prior to the noticed dates and
Plaintiffs had ample opportunity to reschedule or postpone the depositions but
failed to do so. Therefore, we find that Defendants did not act with
substantial justification in failing to produce the deponents for their noticed
depositions. 
 
Defendants seek
$575.00, which they allege “represents the reasonable cost incurred by
Defendants in bringing this motion.” (Motion p. 5.) Defendants fail to attach a
declaration attesting to those costs. However, we note that the Motion is
signed by Defendants’ counsel, Mr. Arthur Khurin, and that by signing the
Motion, Defendants’ counsel thereby attested to its contents. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (b) [“By presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met… (3) The allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support.”].) We find the requested amount of sanctions,
$575.00, to be a reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred in the
filing of the Motion.
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ request for sanctions against Plaintiffs is GRANTED in the amount
of $575.00
 
 
Dated:             March
15, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________             Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court