 Case Number:  23VECV05264    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Ira
  Mandel,
 
        
  Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Vegas
  Auto Gallery Lotus Cars Las Vegas,
 
        
  Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
   23VECV05264  
       107




 
COURT’S RULING RE: 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
According to the Complaint, on November
29, 2021, plaintiff Ira Mandel (“Plaintiff”) purchased a certain used vehicle
(the “Vehicle”) from defendant Haute, LLC d/b/a Vegas Auto Gallery Lotus Cars
Las Vegas (“Defendant”). (Complaint p. 2; Motion p. 3.) Plaintiff asserts that
he later learned that the Vehicle’s odometer had been “rolled back” so that it
showed significantly lower mileage than it actually possessed. (Id. at
p. 3.) According to the Plaintiff, Plaintiff notified Defendant of the odometer
“roll back” and demanded that Defendant rescind the purchase agreement, but
Defendant refused. (Ibid.)
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff initiated
this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action
for (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3)
violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq, and (4)
violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to quash service of summons (the “Motion”). On February 20, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion (the “Opposition”), and on March 7,
2024, Defendant replied to the Opposition.
 
II.             
PARTIES’
ARGUMENTS
 
A.   
The
Motion
 
Defendant moves to quash the service of
summons on the grounds that this court lacks personal jurisdiction over him. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff “must prove,
by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual basis justifying the exercise
of the jurisdiction.” (Motion p. 5.) Defendant contends that as a resident of
Nevada who does business in Nevada, this court does not have general personal
jurisdiction over him. (Id. at p. 6.) Defendant further contends that
this court additionally lacks specific personal jurisdiction over him because
he has not availed himself of any benefits of the forum, it offends traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice, and it would be a hardship for
Defendant to have to travel to California multiple times for this lawsuit. (Id.
at pp. 6–7.)
 
B.    
The
Opposition
 
Plaintiff rebuts that Defendant is subject
to specific personal jurisdiction of this court because he purposefully and
voluntarily directed his activities toward the forum. (Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff
observes that “purposeful availment” exists even as to acts done outside the
state so long as “the act is done with the intention of causing effect in
California or with a reasonable foreseeability that it would cause an effect in
California.” (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff argues that fraudulently
tampering with an odometer was directed at California because it violated a
specific state regulation. (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiff further argues that
Defendant availed himself to the benefits of the forum when he “engage[d] in
affirmative conduct to deliver its product into the forum state, and d[id] so voluntarily
and for its own financial benefit.” (Ibid.) Finally, Plaintiff argues
that the sale was only completed when the Vehicle was delivered to him in
California at Defendant’s expense, and that the sale therefore took place in
California. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that his claims are
“eminently related to Defendant’s contacts with California” because “shipping a
car with a rolled back odometer into the state could result in unsuspecting buyers
purchasing vehicles at inflated prices based on false mileage readings,” the
car may not meet California’s stringent emissions standards, the fraud could
affect California’s “tax revenue that would have been generated from vehicles
accurately reflecting their mileage,” and committing fraud, as a criminal offense,
could burden California’s judicial system. (Id. at pp. 6–7.) 
 
Plaintiff additionally argues that
traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice are not offended when
considering the relative financial abilities of the parties, who are an
individual plaintiff and a corporate defendant, all material witnesses are in
California, the relevant acts or incidents all took place in California, and
Defendant “fails to provide sufficient evidence to support its assertion that
the exercise of jurisdiction in California would not comport with fair play and
substantial justice” in the Motion. (Id. at pp. 7–8.)
 
C.   
The
Reply
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not
met his initial burden of showing that this court has personal jurisdiction
over him because Plaintiff, as evidence, only attaches a declaration of
Plaintiff. (Reply p. 2.) “Here, the defendant’s relationship to a state is
primarily ‘legalistic.’” (Id. at p. 3.) Defendant argues that the law
Plaintiff cited (a portion of the Song-Beverly Act) for his proposition that
the sale was completed in California is inapplicable to this case and, in fact,
the sale was completed in Nevada. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) “Further,
plaintiff’s claim in his declaration about an agreement on shipment is barred
by the integration clause of the sales agreement” and “confirms defendant’s
position that the vehicle purchase agreement did not require for defendant to
deliver the vehicle to defendant at a destination.” (Id. at p. 5.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff submits no evidence that Defendant “rolled
back” the Vehicle’s odometer or knew that the Vehicle “was to be strictly used
in California.” (Id. at p. 6.) Defendant repeats his arguments from the
Motion, then concludes, “because of defendant’s lack of contacts with
California as a whole, it could not reasonably be expected to be subject to
California’s jurisdiction.” (Id. at p. 10.)
 
III.           
ANALYSIS
 
Pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 418.10, “[a] defendant, on or before the last day of his or
her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion…to quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
 
When a defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts
that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an
effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)
The plaintiff must establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of
the evidence. (Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
556, 568.) “When a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the
evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. This burden must
be met by competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary
evidence. An unverified complaint may not be considered as an affidavit
supplying necessary facts.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054–55, internal citations omitted.)
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure Section
410.10, California courts may exercise jurisdiction over nonresidents on any
basis consistent with the Constitution of California or of the United States. “The
exercise of jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions
if the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268,
internal quotation marks omitted.) “If the nonresident defendant does not have
substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits, and the controversy is related to or arises out of a
defendant's contacts with the forum.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest
Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446, internal citations and quotation
marks omitted.) “When determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts
consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation. A
court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if:
(1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum
benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant's
contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would
comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior
Court, supra, at 269, internal citations and quotation marks
omitted.) “The purposeful availment inquiry focuses on the defendant's
intentionality.” (Ibid.) “[M]erely asserting that a defendant knew or
should have known that his intentional acts would cause harm in the forum state
is not enough to establish jurisdiction under the effects test.” (Id. at
270–71.)
 
As the court in Moncrief v. Clark,
238 Cal. App. 4th 1000, 1008, explained: “If a defendant has purposely availed
himself of the benefits of the forum state, and the controversy is related to
the defendant's contacts with the forum, the defendant will be subject to
specific jurisdiction if it would be fair. (See, e.g., Snowney, supra,
35 Cal.4th at p. 1070.) ‘In making this determination, the ‘court “must
consider the burden on the defendant, the interests of the forum State, and the plaintiff's
interest in obtaining relief. It must also weigh in its determination ‘the
interstate judicial system's interest in obtaining the most efficient
resolution of controversies; and the shared interest of the several States in
furthering fundamental substantive social policies.”’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
However, where a defendant who “‘purposefully has directed [his or her]
activities at forum residents seeks to defeat jurisdiction, [he or she] must
present a compelling case that the presence of some other considerations would
render jurisdiction unreasonable.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) 
 
 “Vehicle
Code section 5901, subdivision (d) provides a ‘sale’ is deemed completed when
the purchaser of a vehicle has paid the purchase price or signed a purchase
contract or security agreement and taken physical possession or delivery of the
vehicle.” (Durbin v. Fletcher (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 334, 343.) “It has
long been established [in California] that a transfer of the property interest
in a motor vehicle is effective as between the immediate parties even though
they have not complied with the registration statute.” (Brasher’s Cascade
Auto Auction v. Valley Auto Sales & Leasing (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th
1038, 1063. In Davis v. Newmar Corp. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 275, 278
(hereafter, Davis), a vehicle sale that was negotiated by the consumer
while in California but which provided in the sale agreement for possession of
the vehicle to be transferred out of state was found to have taken place
outside of California because title to the vehicle passed upon delivery. By
contrast, in Gusse v. Damon Corp. (2007) 470 F.Supp.2d 1110, 1112–14
(hereafter, Gusse), the agreement for the sale of a vehicle was
negotiated and signed in California and did not require the seller to make
delivery outside the state. Still in California, parties signed a number of
forms, including a DMV form that provided the sale, transfer, and delivery of
the vehicle had taken place on that day, and the buyer was given keys to the
vehicle and allowed to load his belongings into it. Subsequently, still in
California, the buyer signed a DMV form that indicated that the sale had taken
place out of state and a California Board of Equalization form indicating the
same. Buyer then directed the seller to deliver the vehicle to him out of state.
In this case, the court found that the sale had taken place in California. The Gusse
court found that “the contract is one which required or authorized [the seller]
to transport the [vehicle], but did not require delivery at the destination.
Accordingly, title passed to [the buyer] at the time and place of shipment.”
 
Plaintiffs dispute whether the sale of the
Vehicle from Defendant to Plaintiff was completed in Nevada or California. Defendant
contends that this case is most akin to Gusse because the sale agreement
in this case does not require delivery to be made to California. However, a
number of facts distinguish Gusse from the instant case: namely, in this
case, parties did not sign any forms agreeing that the sale was completed in
the origin state and Plaintiff was not given control of the Vehicle (via
possession of keys, storage of belongings therein, and power to direct
third-party contractor where to deliver the Vehicle). Rather, in Gusse,
the buyer unilaterally attempted to class the vehicle sale as occurring out of
state afterwards despite the apparent intent of the seller that the sale take
place on the day the agreement was signed in California. The case in Davis,
on the other hand, is much more similar to the instant case. Davis
mentions the matter of delivery being a term of the sale agreement but does not
base its holding on this fact. Rather, Davis declares its holding to be
based on the fact that title passed in the state in which delivery occurred,
citing California State Electronics Assn. v. Zeos Internat. Ltd. (1996)
41 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1276–77, which stands for the same proposition. Thus, this
court finds that Defendant did not surrender possession of the Vehicle until it
was delivered to Plaintiff in California, and thus, that the sale was completed
in California.
 
By finding that Defendant remained in
possession of the Vehicle when he directed it to be sent into the state and
delivered to Plaintiff in California, we may further find that Defendant
thereby purposefully availed himself of the benefits of doing business in
California with California residents and that the controversy at issue arises
out of Defendant’s contacts with the state since the sale at issue took place
in California and the controversy here arises out of that sale.
 
Finally, we are persuaded by Plaintiff’s
arguments that it does not offend traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice to hear this case in California. Rather, it is in the
interest of economy to have this case be heard in California given that most if
not all material witnesses are located here, and so the net burden of travel is
reduced.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES the Motion
to Quash.
 
Dated:             March
15, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court