  Case Number:  23STCV09073    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Siamak Pishvaee, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09073




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Cedars-Sinai Health System, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(2) Demurrers to First Amended
Complaint and Motions to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Smidt Heart Institute, Florian Rader, M.D.,
Nathan Reuven Stein, Jae Hyung Cho, M.D., Joshua Goldhaber, M.D., Caitlin Leigh
Oldenkamp, M.D., Gene St. Pierre, Andrew Kondrat, Afshin Afrashteh, Danielle
Kahanowitch, And Achilles Vincent Aiken; and Defendant Neha Jeurkar Darrah, M.D.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Siamak Pishvaee,
individually and as successor-in-interest to Jamal Pishvaei
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS ARE OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTIONS TO STRIKE ARE DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
reply, and supplemental briefing. 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff Siamak
Pishvaee, individually and as successor-in-interest to decedent Jamal Pishvaei,
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting
causes of action for (1) elder abuse; (2) violation of the Bane Act; (3)
violation of the Ralph Act; (4) violation of the Unruh Act; (5) defamation; (6)
assault; (7) battery; (8) violation of Health & Safety Code § 123100; (9)
fraud; (10) negligence; (11) negligent hiring; (12) negligent supervision; (13)
IIED; (14) UCL violations; (15) injunctive relief; and (16) declaratory relief.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants neglected decedent’s health, wrongfully restrained
decedent, withheld food and water for several days, and withheld medical care.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ wrongful conduct caused decedent’s death.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants have filed two demurrers and two motions to strike that make
identical arguments. The Court will address them together.
 
A. Elder Abuse
 
To plead elder abuse, the plaintiff must
allege “facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for
meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,
hydration, hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2) knew of conditions that
made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic
needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to
meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that
injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the
plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of
the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness)
[citations].” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) “The plaintiff must also allege . . . that the
neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or
mental suffering.” (Id. at 407.) “[T]he facts constituting the neglect
and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury ‘must be
pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules governing
statutory claims.” (Id. (quoting Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790).)
To distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse from
Professional Negligence, there must be a showing of recklessness, fraud,
malice, or oppression. (See Covenant Care, Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at
783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful, or conscious
wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 (internal quotation
marks omitted).) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high degree of
probability an injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced remedies for Elder
Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse against elder and
dependent adults.” (Id.) 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action
for elder abuse on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient
facts showing recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. Defendants assert the
allegations amount only to medical negligence. As discussed, Plaintiff alleges
Defendants wrongfully restrained decedent, withheld food and water for several
days, and withheld medical care, ultimately resulting in decedent’s death. This
is sufficient to allege recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression to support
elder abuse. 
The demurrers to the first cause of action
are OVERRULED.
B. Bane Act and
Ralph Act
 
A claim for violation of the Bane Act can be brought by an individual
against a private person, where that person interferes with the Plaintiff’s
legal rights by threat, intimidation, or coercion. (Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b).)
To allege a cause of action under Civil Code section 52.1, the plaintiff must
allege that “the defendant interfered with or attempted to interfere with the
plaintiff’s legal right by threatening or committing violent acts.” (Doe v.
State (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 832, 842.)
 
To plead a claim for violation of Civ. Code section 51.7, a plaintiff
must allege (1) the defendant threatened or committed violent acts against the
plaintiff; (2) the defendant was motivated by his perception of plaintiff’s
protected characteristic; (3) the plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.  (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 880-81.)
 
Defendants assert that the second and third causes of action fail
because Plaintiff has not alleged a violent act or threat of a violent act.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ security assaulted Plaintiff, forcefully
detaining and removing her from decedent’s deathbed. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants battered and detained decedent. This is sufficient to allege Bane
Act and Ralph Act violations.
 
The demurrers to the second and third causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
C. Unruh Act
 
“All persons within the jurisdiction of
this state are free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language,
or immigration status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever.” (Civ. Code, § 51(b).) “No business establishment of
any kind whatsoever shall discriminate against . . . any person in this state
on account of any characteristic listed or defined in subdivision (b) or (e) of
Section 51 . . . because the person is perceived to have one or more of those
characteristics, or because the person is associated with a person who has, or
is perceived to have, any of those characteristics.” (Id., § 51.5(a).)
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of
action on the ground that Plaintiff has not identified the protected
characteristics for which Plaintiff and decedent were discriminated. Plaintiff
alleges Plaintiff and decedent “failed to receive
medical services and failed to have his requests honored, failed to be
discharged under his statutory rights, and failed to receive critical medical
procedures in a timely fashion due to his age/national origin/medical condition
including, but not limited to delay and/or denial in treatment because of his
national origin/age/medical condition/primary language.” This is sufficient to
allege a violation of Unruh.
 
The demurrers to the fourth cause of action are OVERRULED.
 
D. Defamation
 
Defendants assert the fifth cause of action fails because it is barred
by the one-year statute of limitations. Plaintiff alleges the incidents
occurred between April 24-30,
2021. This action was filed on April 23, 2023. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that it is not barred because the alleged defamation was in internal documents
hidden from view that Defendants have refused to provide in discovery. (See Hebrew
Academy of San Francisco v. Goldman (2007) 42 Cal.4th 883, 894.) This is
sufficient to allege delayed discovery.
 
The demurrers to the fifth
cause of action are OVERRULED.
 
E. Assault and
Battery
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
assault are: (1) the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, or threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner;
(2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful
or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent
to the defendant’s conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.”
(Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890 (citing So v.
Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69).) Physical injury is not required;
rather, the tort of assault is complete when anticipation of harm occurs. (See Kiseskey
v. Carpenters’ Trust for Southern California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222,
232.) “The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1)
defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent
to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (Yun
Hee So v. Sook Ja Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669)
Defendants assert Plaintiff has failed to allege assault and battery
with sufficient facts. Plaintiff alleges Defendants assaulted Plaintiff by
lunging at her and forcing her removal from the hospital. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants assaulted and battered decedent by wrongfully restraining him. This
is sufficient to allege claims for assault and battery.
 
The demurrers to the sixth and seventh causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
F. Health &
Safety Code § 123100
 
“[A]ny patient or patient's
personal representative shall be entitled to a paper or electronic copy of all
or any portion of the patient records that they have a right to inspect, upon
presenting a request to the health care provider specifying the records to be
copied, together with a fee to defray the costs of producing the copy or
summary.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 123110(b)(1).)
 
Defendants demur the eighth
cause of action on the ground that Plaintiff has not alleged this claim with
specificity. There is no specificity requirement for this claim. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants refused to allow inspections of records to which Plaintiff
is entitled. 
 
The demurrers to the eighth
cause of action are OVERRULED.
 
G. Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Defendants assert Plaintiff has failed to
allege fraud with specificity. Plaintiff alleges several misrepresentations.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants, at
specific times, misrepresented facts as to the lifesaving procedure being
performed to have decedent admitted to their hospital, misrepresented facts as
to procedures that were to be performed, concealed facts concerning their
intent to place decedent in restraints, misrepresented facts and policies as to
decedent’s right to be discharged AMA, and misrepresented facts as to their
intent to effectuate decedent’s transfer in order to eject decedent’s
surrogates and family from the hospital, and as to their intent to commit
further battery on decedent upon the ejection. This is sufficient to allege
fraud.
The
demurrers to the ninth cause of action are OVERRULED.
 
H. Negligence,
Negligent Hiring and Supervision
 
Defendants assert the claims for negligence are barred by the one-year
statute of limitations for medical negligence. As discussed, Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient facts showing that this action arises from more than medical
negligence. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis. 
 
The demurrers to the eleventh and twelfth causes of action are
OVERRULED.
 
I. IIED
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)
 
Defendants demur the thirteenth cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff has not alleged Defendants acted intentionally. Plaintiff has alleged
causes of action for assault, battery, and fraud. These allegations show intent
to cause emotional distress.
 
The demurrers to the thirteenth cause of action are OVERRULED.
 
J. UCL
Violations
 
California Business and Professions
Code section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act
or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)
 
Defendants assert Plaintiff has failed
to allege a practice of fraudulent conduct. As discussed, Plaintiff has alleged
various instances of conduct that are unlawful, unfair or fraudulent. 
 
The demurrers to the fourteenth cause
of action are OVERRULED.
 
K. Injunctive
and Declaratory Relief
 
Defendants demur to the claims for injunctive and declaratory relief on
the ground that they are not causes of action. Plaintiff may allege entitlement
to remedies.
 
The demurrers to the fifteenth and sixteenth causes of action are
OVERRULED.
 
O. Motion to
Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayers for punitive damages,
attorney’s fees, costs, and equitable relief. As Plaintiff has alleged claims
for fraud, Plaintiff has alleged entitlement to punitive damages. The Court
declines to strike Plaintiff’s remaining prayers for relief. Plaintiff’s
entitlement to these forms of relief is not dependent on the pleadings. 
 
The motions to strike are DENIED. 
 
 
 
 