 Case Number:  23STCV09555    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER; MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION; AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV09555 RAMON
ALTAMIRANO-CONTRERAS vs SEO YOON LEE 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Seo Yoon Lee
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling:  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER IS DENIED
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
Motion to Compel Further
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff moved the court
to compel Defendant to provide further responses to her Requests for
production, Set Two. Defendant has not scheduled nor participated in an
Informal Discovery Conference on the discovery responses at issue.
 
Personal Injury Hub Courts will not entertain
Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses until the parties have
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). (Eighth Amended
Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Court at p. 7.) The
Court may either deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
discovery if the parties do not schedule and complete an IDC prior to the
hearing date set for a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery. (Id.)
 
The parties are required to participate in an
IDC to attempt to resolve any outstanding discovery disputes before a motion to
compel further can be heard. No IDC has been held or scheduled prior to the
hearing or filing of the present motion, Thus the present motion is denied
without prejudice.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition
 
On November 7,
2023, Plaintiff served a notice of deposition of Defendant Yoon Lee to occur on
January 16, 2024. Defendant did not appear at this deposition. The Parties met
and conferred and on January 23, 2024, Plaintiff served an amended notice of
deposition of Ms. Yoon Lee to occur on February 20, 2024. The notice included a
request for production of documents. Defendant did not object to the deposition
notice.
 
The deposition
was held on February 20, 2024, and when deponent did not arrive, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email to Defendant’s counsel. Defendant’s counsel replied that
Defendant would not be appearing for the second notice of deposition either.
 
Defendant did
not file an opposition disputing the facts above. Defendant
failed to serve a written objection and failed to appear for deposition on the
noticed date. CCP §2025.450(a). Plaintiff has also fulfilled the requirement under
CCP §2025.450(b)(2) to inquire into Defendant’s nonappearance. Thus, all the
requirements to compel Plaintiff’s deposition have been met and the present
motion is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to appear for deposition within 20 days
of today.
 
The notice of
deposition includes a demand for production of documents and Plaintiff seeks an
order compelling Defendant to produce all identified documents at her
deposition. The moving papers fail to show good cause for production of the
documents sought, as required by §2025.450(b)(1). There is no discussion of
good cause, and therefore the Court declines to enter an order compelling Defendant
to produce documents, but urges the parties to work together to resolve any
issues concerning documents without court intervention.
 
Defendant’s nonappearance forced Plaintiff
to file the present motion and incur attorney’s fees. Defendant seeks sanctions
in the amount of $1950. Considering the simplicity of the motion and the lack
of an opposition, the Court exercises discretion and lowers the amount to
$1000. The Court ORDERS Defendant and her counsel, jointly and severally, to
pay sanctions of $1000 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.