  Case Number:  19STCV013217    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 5/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV03217 MADISON CASTELLANOS
vs LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Los Angeles
Community College
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND
SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 provides
for sanctions against a party who is guilty of “actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).) “‘Actions or tactics’ include, but are not
limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service of a
complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading.” (Id.,
subd. (b).) “A reasonable interpretation is that
[section 128.5] also applies to entire actions not based on good faith that are
frivolous or cause unnecessary delay in the resolution of a dispute.” (Lesser
v. Huntington Harbor Corp. (1985) 173 Cal. App. 3d 922, 930.) This section authorizes trial courts to
order payment of reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred as a
result of a litigation opponent’s tactics or actions not based on good faith
which are frivolous, or which cause unnecessary delay. (Olmstead v. Arthur
J. Gallagher & Co. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 804, 809.)¿ 
 
An objective standard is used when determining if
section 128.5 sanctions are appropriate; that is, a motion is totally and
completely without merit only where¿any reasonable attorney¿would agree that the action is totally and
completely without merit. (Finnie v. Town of Tiburon¿(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1, 12; San Diegans for
Open Government v. City of San Diego (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1306, 1319.) 
 
 
Discussion
On January 30, 2019,
Plaintiff filed the present case after a teacher closed a door on her finger.
On October 3, 2023, Defendant filed for summary judgment, and the Court held a
hearing on this motion on March 22, 2024. After requesting supplemental
briefing, on May 2, 2024, the Court granted summary adjudication to the
premises liability/dangerous condition cause of action and denied summary
adjudication as to the negligence cause of action. Plaintiff now moves the
Court for sanctions, arguing that Defendant filed the MSJ for the frivolous
purpose of forcing a settlement or wasting the Court's time. The Court
disagrees and does not find the motion to be frivolous. The Court granted
summary adjudication to the dangerous condition cause of action reflecting that
the motion was far from frivolous. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff
bases the bulk of the motion on the argument that the evidence Defendant
introduced in its motion for summary judgment is objectionable, including
hearsay. However, Plaintiff has not provided any authority that providing alleged
hearsay evidence constitutes grounds for sanctions. If that were the case,
every motion for summary judgment before the court could be sanctionable.
Furthermore, the Court has already examined and overruled these evidentiary
objections in Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion for summary judgment. (May
2, 2024, Minute Order at pg. 7.) Thus, the Court denies the present motion and
requests for sanctions and attorney fees.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.