 Case Number:  23STCV26107    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV26107 JAMES PHILLIP
THOMAS, et al. vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant WILSON SUMMIT HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, INC
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR COMPEL IS DENIED; REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED
 
On January 31, 2024,
Plaintiff propounded Form Interrogatories (Set One) on Defendant Wilson Summit.
The responses were initially due by March 5, 2024. After a series of extensions
granted by Plaintiff, the final deadline was set for March 29, 2024. When no
responses were provided by that date, Plaintiff communicated to Defendant that
it had until April 3, 2024, before Plaintiff would file a motion to compel. On
April 11, 2024, Plaintiff moved the Court to compel responses to his Form
Interrogatories, Set One, when responses were not received.
Defendant filed an
opposition, arguing that discovery responses had been provided prior to the
hearing and attached a copy of the discovery responses. Thus, the present
motion is moot. Defendant further argued that sanctions are not warranted
because it acted with substantial justification. However, the record shows that
Plaintiff granted several extensions after the responses were initially due by
March 5 and informed Defendant that a motion would be filed if no response was
received by April 3. When Plaintiff did not receive a response, he filed the
motion as communicated to Defendant. Defendant counsel’s argument that he would
ordinarily expect Plaintiff to give a longer extension does not constitute
substantial justification. Plaintiff is not obligated to provide any extension
and may, under the statute, move to compel immediately after not receiving any
responses. Defendant should not expect Plaintiff to provide an extension which Plaintiff
is not obligated to provide.
The Court finds
Plaintiff's request for sanctions in the amount of $1500 reasonable. Consequently,
Defendant and its counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions
of $1500 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 