 Case Number:  22STCV15784    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE; MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED;
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/13/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV15784 VARTANUSH VARTANI
vs CITY OF GLENDALE
Moving Party: Defendant Allen Building
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE; MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED; REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
Requests for
Production
 
A plaintiff may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)
 
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and confirm
any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a) -
(b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)
 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the
discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a
motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer
requirements.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
Requests for Admissions
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
 
Analysis and
Conclusion 
 
On May 11,
2022, Plaintiff filed the present case. On November 21, 2023, Defendant Allen
Building LLC served Request for Production, set one and Request for Admissions,
set one on Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s responses were due on December 23, 2023.
Defendant granted Plaintiff several extensions, but as of March 22, 2024, no
responses have been served. Defendant now moves the Court to compel initial
responses to its Requests for Production, set one, and deem the contents of its
Request for Admissions, set one, admitted.
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition only to Defendant’s motion to deem RFA admitted. Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to Defendant’s motion to compel Requests for
Production. In Defendant’s reply, it stated that Plaintiff did not serve
responses to the Requests for Production. Plaintiff did not file any
documents indicating that responses to the Requests for Production have been
served.
Thus,
Defendant’s motion to compel responses to Request for Production, Set One, is
granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete responses to Defendant’s
Request for Production, Set One, within 20 days from today, without objections.
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s responses to Requests for Admission, Set One, as attached to the
opposition are unverified, and Defendant also declares as such in the Reply.
Because unverified responses are tantamount to no responses at all (see Appleton v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636), Defendant’s motion to deem the content of
its Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted is GRANTED.
 
Defendant also requests sanctions
in the amount of $870 for the two motions. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
non-response forced Defendant to incur attorney’s fees by filing the present
and finds the amount of sanctions requested to be reasonable for the two
motions. Consequently, Plaintiff is ORDERED to
pay sanctions of $870.00 to Defendant within 20 days of today’s date. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 