 Case Number:  21STCV37452    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV37452 ESMARALDA Y.
FUENTES-PEREZ vs RUN D. WU 
Moving Party: Defendant Run D. WU 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS GRANTED
 
Background
On 10/8/21, Plaintiff
filed the present case against Defendants Run D. Wu and Dan Yuedong Wu. On
December 27, 2021, Defendant Run D. Wu (“Wu”) served Plaintiff with written
discovery requests, including Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Production of Documents. Plaintiff served responses on October 24, 2022.
Defendant believed Plaintiff’s responses were deficient and subsequently filed
a motion to compel further responses. This Court granted the motions on April
11, 2023 (Ex. H.) and April 19, 2023 (Ex. J.). Specifically, the Court issued
the following orders:
1.  On
April 11, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff to provide further responses to
certain special and form interrogatories propounded by Wu within 20 days;
2.  On
April 11, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff to pay Wu sanctions totaling $860
within 20 days;
3.  On
April 19, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff to provide color copies of
photographs to Wu within 20 days;
4.  On
April 19, 2023, this Court ordered Plaintiff to pay Wu sanctions totaling $215
within 20 days.
Wu served notices of
ruling on Plaintiff on April 12, 2023, and April 19, 2023, respectively. On May
23, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for the imposition of terminating sanctions.
The motion was continued to October 12, 2023, and Defendant was ordered to file
supplemental documents in support of his motion no later than 16 court days
before the hearing and to re-serve the discovery requests on Plaintiff. The
Court warned Plaintiff that the motion for terminating sanctions would be
granted if Plaintiff failed to comply. On June 30, 2023, Defendant re-served
Plaintiff with his First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Request for Production of Documents.
Defendant filed
supplemental declarations indicating that Plaintiff had not served discovery
responses or documents. At the hearing on October 12, 2023, the Court issued a
tentative ruling granting Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions. At the
hearing, Plaintiff requested to be heard and represented that she served the
discovery responses on October 11, 2023. Based on that representation, the
Court denied the motion for terminating sanctions.
Now, Defendant Wu has
renewed his motion for terminating sanctions. Defendant represents that Plaintiff
did not fully comply with the Court’s orders on October 11, 2023. Plaintiff
only served further responses to special and form interrogatories. She did not
pay sanctions nor did she produce the color photographs. Furthermore,
Defendant, after his first motion for terminating sanctions was denied, made
several attempts to get Plaintiff to comply with the Court’s 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
Court Orders for the production of the color photographs and the payment of
monetary sanctions. Defendant sent Plaintiff several meet and confer letters
and copies of the court orders, and the Parties also had a phone call regarding
the court orders. To date, Plaintiff has not complied with the three court
orders.
Legal Standard
 
A
party may bring a request for sanctions by bringing a noticed motion with a
supporting declaration setting forth facts supporting the sanctions requested.
(CCP § 2023.040.) A party seeking sanctions is not required to meet and confer
before bringing a motion under § 2023.040. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 141 Cal. App. 4th 390, 311.)
The Court has the authority to, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
impose sanctions on anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process. (CCP
§ 2023.030.) Misuse of the discovery process includes, but is not limited to,
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an
evasive discovery response, and disobeying a court order to provide discovery.
(CCP § 2023.010(d), (f), (g).) The sanctions the Court can impose for misuse of
the discovery process include terminating sanctions, by issuing an order
dismissing the action against that party. (CCP § 2023.030(d), (e).) Terminating
sanctions should be used sparingly and the trial court should attempt less severe
alternatives unless the record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be
ineffective to induce the offending party’s compliance. (R.S. Creative, Inc.
v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 486, 496 (finding
terminating sanctions proper where plaintiffs violated two discovery orders).)
 
Here,
the record demonstrates that Plaintiff has consistently failed to comply with
the Court's orders to provide discovery responses and pay discovery sanctions,
thereby misusing the discovery process. Lesser sanctions are not appropriate in
this case. The Court previously ordered monetary sanctions, yet sanctions have
not been paid and the color photographs were not produced. The Court nearly
granted terminating sanctions last October, were it not for Plaintiff's
last-minute representation that she had complied with the Court's order just
prior to the hearing. However, based on Defendant’s representation, Plaintiff
did not in fact comply with Court orders 2, 3, and 4 prior to the hearing for
the previous motion for terminating sanctions. Even after Defendant attempted
to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding these orders after the hearing,
Plaintiff still has not complied with the Court Orders. Plaintiff is not
entitled to special consideration as a pro per litigant, as the Court has
already afforded Plaintiff several opportunities to comply with the Court
Orders, which Plaintiff has failed to meet.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 