 Case Number:  23LBCV01658    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiffs propounded FROGs on
Defendant on 9/21/23.  Defendant sought
and received seven extensions of time to respond, with responses ultimately due
on 2/23/24, five months after discovery was originally propounded.  On 2/23/24, Defendant served objections-only
responses.  On 3/01/24, Plaintiffs sent a
meet and confer letter.  Defendant did
not respond, and on 3/18/24, Plaintiffs filed this motion.  
 
Defendant ultimately served
substantive responses on 4/05/24, the same day he filed his opposition to the
motion.  The motion is therefore
substantively moot.  The only remaining
issue is whether the Court should impose sanctions.
 
Defendant argues sanctions should
not be imposed because (a) Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel responses, as
opposed to a motion to compel further responses, and (b) Defendant acted with
substantial justification.  
 
Defendant’s first argument is that
Plaintiffs improperly filed a motion to compel initial responses instead of a
motion to compel further responses. 
Specifically, Defendant contends Plaintiffs failed to file the necessary
separate statement of items in dispute required by CRC 3.1345(a)(2).  
 
As Plaintiffs correctly note in
reply, this is a procedurally uncommon motion. 
Defendant served nothing but boilerplate responses to the discovery when
Defendant finally responded.  While
technically this does require a motion to compel “further,” as opposed to
initial responses, Plaintiffs did cite the applicable code section (CCP §2030.010,
et seq.) in their notice of motion, and did reserve the hearing date as one for
a motion to compel further responses. 
Additionally, Plaintiffs correctly note that CRC 3.1345(b)(2) permits a
“concise outline of discovery requests and responses in dispute,” which is
essentially what their memorandum of points and authorities contains.  Finally, the Court notes that the burden to justify
objections is squarely on the party asserting the objections per Fairmont Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  Thus, a separate statement would not have
assisted the Court, as Defendant responded using only objections, and Defendant
has the burden to justify the objections. 
The Court therefore finds the motion is procedurally proper.
 
Defendant also argues the failure
to serve substantive responses was justified and sanctions should not be
imposed.  Defendant cites numerous
problems obtaining the information sought by way of the discovery, the volume
of discovery, and the minor nature of the automobile accident that forms the
basis of the lawsuit.  The Court finds
none of the above justifies waiting five months to respond to discovery,
ultimately serving objections-only responses at the penultimate moment, failing
to respond to meet and confer efforts, and filing serving substantive responses
on the due date for opposition papers.
 
The Court therefore finds
imposition of sanctions is justified.  
 
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in the
amount of $1500.  Plaintiffs’ attorney
declares he bills at the rate of $500/hour, and spent one hour preparing the
motion, one hour preparing the reply, and will spend one hour attending the
hearing.  The Court finds all amounts
reasonable and fully supported by the declaration.  Sanctions are awarded in the full amount
sought.
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Defendant and his attorneys of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Plaintiffs, by and through their attorneys of record, in the total amount of
$1500, within twenty days.  
 
As a final note, the Court sees
that there are four upcoming motions scheduled in this case that are all
substantially the same as the instant motion. 
The hearings on the 6/27/24 motion, 7/02/24 motion, and 7/25/24 motion are
continued to 7/30/24, so all four motions can be heard together.  The Court urges the parties to resolve all
outstanding issues without the need for the 7/30/24 hearing.  The Court advises the parties that the Court
will likely award lower sanctions in connection with the additional motions, as
their drafting is largely redundant of the drafting of the instant motion.  The Court is hopeful the parties can agree on
an amount of sanctions for the other three motions and take them off calendar
without the need for a hearing.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.