 Case Number:  23LBCV02106    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  S27  
Plaintiff, Brian Biggers filed this action against Defendants, Long
Beach Colonial Homes Homeowners Association, Inc. and Christine Perez on
11/06/23.  On 11/27/23, Plaintiff filed
proof of service of the summons, complaint, and related papers on Perez by
substitute service on 11/18/23 at 5551 Hanbury Street in Long Beach.    
 
Perez moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, contending
she previously lived at the Hanbury address, but moved in early 2023 and did
not live there at the time of service.  
 
Pursuant to Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
403, 413, when a defendant challenges jurisdiction on the ground of improper
service of the summons and complaint, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove
service was proper.  
Plaintiff seeks judicial notice of various documents in opposition to
the motion.  Defendant, in reply,
correctly notes that many of the documents relate to a non-party entity and are
not relevant to the issue of whether Defendant, an individual, resided at the
Hanbury address at the time of service. 
The Court grants the RJN of Exhibit 7, which is a secured property tax
bill for the Hanbury address for the period of 7/01/23 to 6/30/24.  The document shows Perez claimed the subject
property as her primary home, receiving a $7000 exemption, during the relevant
period.  
 
Perez, in reply, contends her failure to cease claiming the exemption
upon moving was an error, and she will correct it with the tax assessor’s
office.  
 
The Court finds claiming the exemption is an admission that the address
is one’s primary address.  There are tax
benefits to claiming the exemption, but one must also accept the consequences
of the claim of exemption.  The Court
finds this is sufficient to meet the burden, by a preponderance of the
evidence, to show the address was proper for service of the summons and
complaint.  The motion to quash is
therefore denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must call the court at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to
submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive a phone call indicating the parties are
submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the
motion may be placed off calendar. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the
case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If the parties do not submit on the
tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.