  Case Number:  23LBCV00818    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     History
of Discovery Motion
Plaintiff filed this motion to
compel on 2/07/24, setting it for hearing on 4/04/24.  On 3/21/24, Defendant filed timely opposition
to the motion wherein it argues the motion is entirely moot, and also argues
the motion should have never been filed because Defendant offered dates for PMQ
depositions prior to the filing of the motion. 
In reply, Plaintiff argues the motion is not moot because Defendant has
continued to fail to produce a PMQ for several issues, and has also failed to
produce all required documents.  
 
The Court noted that the parties
had additional depositions scheduled and continued the hearing date from
4/04/24 to 4/18/24 in the hopes that the parties could resolve all outstanding
issues without the need for further law and motion practice.  On 4/12/24, the parties filed timely briefs
concerning outstanding issues.  
 
2.     Outstanding
Issues
a.     Leigh
Ann Ruijters
Ruijters signed discovery
verifications on behalf of Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff noticed her deposition. 
She has not appeared.  Plaintiff
contends a date for deposition is necessary. 
Defendant contends Ruijters signed the verifications in her capacity as
Complex Claims Specialist, and she lacks any personal knowledge of the facts
that gave rise to this litigation. 
Defendant failed to show that it objected to Plaintiff’s deposition
notice on this ground.  If Defendant did
not object, then any objection would be waived and the deposition must go
forward, even if it is very short and merely establishes Ruijters lacks
personal knowledge of the facts of the case. 

 
The parties are ordered to further
meet and confer to schedule Ruijters’ deposition.  If Ruijters truly lacks any personal
knowledge of the facts of the case, despite the failure to object on this
ground, the Court encourages the parties to agree to forego the deposition as
unnecessary and take any steps necessary to secure assurance that Ruijters is
not a percipient witness, will not be called to testify, and lacks personal
knowledge of the facts of the case.  
 
b.     Sam
Diaz
Plaintiff indicates Defendant
identified Sam Diaz as an employee with knowledge of the incident, but has
failed to produce Diaz for deposition. 
Defendant indicates the identification of Diaz was a mistake, and Diaz is
not an employee who has knowledge of the incident.  Defendant must provide a supplemental
discovery response to this effect, as it indicates it will do in the
supplemental papers.  No deposition is
necessary if this person is not a witness to the events of the case.
c.     PMQ
as to Other Incidents
Plaintiff seeks to depose
Defendant’s PMQ concerning prior and subsequent trip and fall incidents at the
store and production of related documents. 
Defendant contends the demands are overbroad, because discovery is limited
to “similar accidents,” and “all trip and fall incidents” is not sufficiently
similar to be discoverable.  
 
Both parties discuss cases
concerning admissibility at trial.  The
cases hold that prior similar incidents are admissible, so long as they are
substantially similar and not remote in time. 
Discovery is, of course, more broad than trial admissibility, and also
it is not entirely up to Defendant to decide which accidents are sufficiently
similar as to be discoverable.  That
said, the Court agrees that conducting discovery as to each and every trip and
fall on Defendant’s premises is overly broad, as this would include entirely
unrelated incidents, such as a fall on cracked concrete in the parking
lot.  
 
It appears Plaintiff’s fall
occurred when she came into contact with an object on the bottom of another
shopper’s shopping cart.  Defendant seeks
to limit testimony and document production to incidents where persons fall on
“a moving basket with product.”  The
Court is inclined to permit discovery into incidents involving a fall in any
way related to a shopping cart.  The
parties must proceed with a deposition and document production with this
limitation.  
 
d.     Sanctions

The Court finds no sanctions are
appropriate.  Defendant took its position
re: the most difficult issue on the motion, PMQ depositions and document
production, in good faith and with substantial justification.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   