 Case Number:  24STCV13054    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
WALTER SALAZAR,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.: 24STCV13054 
  Hearing Date:  October 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Walter
Salazar filed this action against Defendant Hyundai Motor America, asserting
causes of action for breach of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act. 
            On July 1, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October
8 2024. Defendant filed its reply on October 14, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) states
that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction
involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is
interpreted to mean simply “affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest
reach possible, and does not require a transaction that is actually “within the
flow of interstate commerce.” (See Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S.
52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree to apply the FAA notwithstanding any
effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
The Arbitration Provisions at Issue
            Defendant first relies on an
arbitration provision in the vehicle owner’s manual, which states the
following: 
 
“If you purchased
or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you and we each
agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any of
our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase,
use of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty . . . shall be resolved by binding
arbitration.
. . . 
 
IF YOU PURCHASED
OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE
TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS
WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO
BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS.” 
(Ameripour
Decl., Ex. 3, § 4.)
Alternatively, Defendant relies on a
Bluelink Connected Services Agreement (CSA) that Plaintiff signed in May 2021
when enrolling his vehicle in Hyundai’s Bluelink service. (Rao Decl. ¶¶ 4-6,
Ex. 1, 2.) The CSA contains an arbitration provision stating the following: 
 
“Hyundai and you
agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems,
Service Plans, your Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or
programs you purchase . . . This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be
broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us
subject to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law.
. . . 
 
The agreement to
arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract,
tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other
legal theory; claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement.” 
(Rao
Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C), emphasis added.) 
            Both arbitration provisions facially
cover the claims currently being asserted in Plaintiff’s complaint. 
II.
Authentication
Plaintiff argues that the warranty cannot
be authenticated by counsel’s declaration and that Defendant has no evidence
Plaintiff signed the CSA. However, “[f]or purposes of a petition to compel
arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication.” (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218.) “The statute does not require the petitioner to
introduce the agreement into evidence. A plain reading of the statute indicates
that as a preliminary matter the court is only required to make a finding of
the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity.” (Id.
at p. 219.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence
of the warranty or the CSA, or their respective terms, including the
arbitration provisions. Plaintiff presents no evidence with his opposition and
therefore fails to challenge the existence of the agreements or his awareness
of them. In fact, as discussed further below, Plaintiff concedes the existence
of the warranty because his claims depend on it. Thus, the Court finds that an
arbitration agreement exists. 
 
 
III.
Equitable Estoppel
“[T]he ‘fundamental point’ of using
equitable estoppel to compel arbitration is to prevent a party from taking
advantage of a contract's substantive terms while avoiding those terms
requiring arbitration.” (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
1324, 1336.) 
That is precisely what Plaintiff attempts
to do here. Plaintiff bases his complaint on the express warranty provided by
Defendant (Compl. ¶ 12) while seeking to avoid the arbitration provision within
the same warranty. Plaintiff does not dispute that the warranty upon which he
sues contains an arbitration agreement. Plaintiff is estopped from disclaiming
the existence of the warranty and its terms. 
IV.
Mutual Assent
Plaintiff argues that the warranty and CSA
are not contracts because there is no indication that Plaintiff was informed of
them, read them, or signed them. However, Plaintiff has no evidence that he was
unaware of the agreements or did not consent to them. Plaintiff does not
dispute that he registered for Bluelink in May 2021 and had to sign the CSA as
a result. Furthermore, as discussed above, Plaintiff is estopped from
disclaiming the existence of the warranty.
As to signatures, “the writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.” (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176.) “[I]t is not the presence or absence of a signature
which is dispositive; it is the presence or absence of evidence of an agreement
to arbitrate which matters.” (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 361.) As discussed above, Defendant has established
the existence of an arbitration agreement, which Plaintiff has not challenged.  
 
 
V.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.)
            Plaintiff argues that the agreements
are procedurally unconscionable because they were presented as
take-it-or-leave-it with no negotiation. However, the warranty contains an
opt-out provision, and the Bluelink service was optional. Moreover, Plaintiff
did not have to purchase the subject vehicle. The arbitration provision in the
respective agreements is clearly labeled and not buried or unintelligible.
Thus, the Court finds no procedural unconscionability. 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration provision improperly impedes his rights under the Song-Beverly Act.
However, arbitration merely addresses the forum in which disputes are resolved.
It does not waive any statutory rights. Plaintiff cites cases disapproving of
requiring consumers to litigate Song-Beverly claims in out-of-state forums
because that would impede their statutory rights. (Opp. 11:11-17.) The
arbitration here does no such thing. The arbitration would take place in
California, waiving no rights under the Song-Beverly Act. Thus, the Court finds
no substantive unconscionability. 
            In sum, the Court finds that
Defendant has established the existence of an arbitration agreement and that
Plaintiff has not presented evidence rebutting that showing. Additionally,
Plaintiff is equitably estopped from disclaiming the arbitration provision in
the warranty. Lastly, Plaintiff has failed to show that either contract is
unconscionable. Thus, arbitration is warranted.
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 
 