  Case Number:  24STCV12798    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MIA BROWER, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ATARA REDSTONE LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV12798
  Hearing Date:  October 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs Mia
Brower, Ale Lubezki, and Alexandra Bakst filed this action against Defendants
Atara Redstone LLC, Evergreen Grand Sequoia LLC, and Wayne Gam, asserting
causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) breach of the warranty of habitability,
(3) breach of the warranty of quiet enjoyment, (4) nuisance, (5) breach of
contract, and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            From August 2021 to July 2022, Plaintiffs
were tenants of a rental unit allegedly owned or operated by Defendants.
(Compl. ¶¶ 1-2.) Plaintiffs allege that throughout their tenancy, the unit was
subject to uninhabitable conditions including: insufficient ventilation;
inadequate waterproofing; water damage; surface and airborne contaminants;
toxic conditions; and violation of local ordinances. (Id., ¶ 15.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants had been notified since January 2022 of
leaks, water damage, mold, and other substandard living conditions. (Id.,
¶ 18.) Defendants allegedly failed to respond to Plaintiffs’ complaints, only
sending an untrained and unlicensed handyman, who attempted to remove the moldy
and water-damaged drywall without proper containment, causing toxic spores to
propagate throughout the unit. (Id., ¶¶ 21-22.) Subsequently, mold and
fungus contamination only increased, and Defendants took no remedial action
despite being notified. (Id., ¶¶ 23-24.) 
            On September 16, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the fourth and sixth causes of action,
accompanied by a motion to strike. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on October
4, 2024. Defendants filed their replies on October 14, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Larsen Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

            a. Nuisance 
“Anything which is injurious to health . .
. or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use
of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property . . . is a nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.) “It is settled that where
conduct which violates a duty owed to another also interferes with that party's
free use and enjoyment of his property, nuisance liability arises.” (Cutujian
v. Benedict Hills Estates Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1389.)
Defendants argue that the complaint
contains no facts demonstrating how Defendants’ actions were unreasonable. The
complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants’ actions were unreasonable for
pleading purposes. Specifically, Defendants allegedly hired an untrained and
unlicensed handyman who failed to remediate the issue and actually made matters
worse. (Compl. ¶¶ 21-24.) The complaint alleges that Defendants took no
remedial measures yet continued to demand rent while knowing that Plaintiffs
were living in mold-infested conditions. (Id., ¶ 24.) 
Defendants argue that the complaint admits
Defendants took remedial action by hiring someone to address the mold.
Defendants also argue that because the complaint does not allege specific
dates, it does not show how long Defendants waited before addressing the issue.
Defendants essentially argue that if they hired someone promptly, they would be
absolved from nuisance liability as a matter of law. Defendants cite no
authority for this proposition. For pleading purposes, Defendants’ actions may
be considered unreasonable because Defendant allegedly took no remedial action
despite being on notice of the conditions and only hired an untrained and
unlicensed handyman who made the situation worse. The precise timeline of
events, and whether Plaintiffs specifically notified Defendants after the
handyman, are factual matters for discovery. 
Lastly, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
fail to attribute specific actions to each defendant, instead grouping
Defendants together. Defendants cite no authority suggesting that this defeats
a nuisance claim. Plaintiffs are entitled to allege that all Defendants are
responsible for the same defective conditions and failure to remediate. The
specific involvement of any particular defendant is a factual matter for
discovery. The complaint sufficiently puts Defendants on notice of the nature
of the claims.  
Ultimately, Plaintiffs have adequately
pled a nuisance cause of action. 
b. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
To state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real
Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.) 
“For conduct to
be outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 166, 172.) “Severe
emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such substantial quantity or
enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co. (1970)
10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) A landlord’s willful failure to correct
defective conditions can constitute intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.) 
“[D]iscomfort, worry, anxiety, upset
stomach, concern, and agitation” do not satisfy the severity standard. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.) Plaintiffs’ allegations are
similarly generic and thus do not rise to the level of IIED. (See Compl. ¶¶ 34,
51, 60.) Therefore, the IIED claim is not properly pled.  
II.
Motion to Strike 
            a. Punitive Damages
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
The allegations
discussed above—where Defendants allegedly knew of the uninhabitable conditions
for an extended period of time but ignored them while continuing to extract
rent—sufficiently establish conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights and
safety, as well as conduct that subjected Plaintiffs to unjust hardship. The
allegations are sufficiently specific, and Plaintiffs are entitled to attribute
the offending conduct to all Defendants. Thus, the complaint properly pleads a
basis for punitive damages.  
b.
Attorney’s Fees
“[A]n attorney who chooses to litigate in
propria persona and therefore does not pay or become liable to pay
consideration in exchange for legal representation cannot recover
‘reasonable attorney’s fees’ . . . .” (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11
Cal.4th 274, 292.) Plaintiffs are pro per litigants and therefore cannot incur
or recover attorney’s fees. Therefore, the prayer for attorney’s fees is
stricken. Plaintiffs may amend the complaint if a basis for attorney’s fees
arises later. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action and OVERRULED as to the
fourth cause of action. Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED as to
attorney’s fees and DENIED as to punitive damages. 
 