 Case Number:  23STCV18814    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz’s Motion to Compel Defendant Accountable Health Care IPA to
Provide Further Responses to First Set of Inspection Demands and First Set of
Form Interrogatories
Inspection Demands
Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz moves to compel defendant
Accountable Health Care IPA (Accountable) to provide further responses to
inspection demands Nos. 1-12.  A party demanding documents may move to compel further
responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,”
or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
Plaintiff shows good cause for further
responses to these demands.  Accountable
responded with incomplete statements of compliance.  A statement of compliance must state the
inspection “will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things
in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of
that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.”  (CCP § 2031.220.)  
Accountable
also objected to the demands without adequately identifying documents being
withheld or the factual basis for the objections.  When a party objects, it must “[i]dentify
with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored
information falling within any category of item in the demand to which an
objection is being made.”  (CCP §
2031.240(b)(1).)  If it objects based on
privilege or attorney work product, the response must also “provide sufficient
factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of” these
objections, “including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)
Accountable filed an opposition to this
motion asserting only that it expected to provide supplemental responses before
the hearing.  Plaintiff filed a reply
indicating Accountable has not done so. 
The court will therefore order Accountable to serve further responses.
Form Interrogatories
Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz also moves to compel defendant Accountable Health Care IPA to
provide further responses to form interrogatories Nos.  3.1, 4.1, 12.1, 14.1, 14.2, 15.1, and 16.1.  A party may move to compel further responses
to interrogatories when an answer “is evasive or incomplete” (CCP §
2030.300(a)(1) or an objection “is without merit or too general” (CCP §
2030.300(a)(3)).
Accountable gave
evasive and incomplete responses to these interrogatories.  For example, it responded to No. 4.1 by objecting,
then stating, “To be supplemented.”  That
does not answer the question. 
For Nos. 12.1, parts
of 14.1, and 16.1 , others, Accountable stated it “has insufficient information
by which to respond.”  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.220(c) provides, “If the responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that
party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.”  “If a person cannot furnish details, he
should set forth the efforts made to secure the information.  He cannot plead ignorance to information
which can be obtained from sources under his control.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 782.)  Accountable did not set forth
any efforts made to secure the information from sources under its control.
Again, Accountable’s opposition asserts
only that it expected to provide supplemental responses before the
hearing.  Plaintiff filed a reply
indicating Accountable has not done so. 
The court will therefore order Accountable to serve further responses.
Disposition
Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz’s motion to compel defendant
Accountable Health Care IPA to provide further responses to inspection demands
is granted.  Defendant Accountable
Health Care IPA is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to inspection demands Nos. 1-12, including a privilege log, within 30
days.  Defendant shall
produce all additional responsive documents concurrently with its written
responses.  Defendant shall identify
which documents respond to which demands for inspection. 
Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz’s motion to compel
defendant Accountable Health Care IPA to provide further responses to form
interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Accountable
Health Care IPA is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to form interrogatories – general, employment, Nos.  3.1, 4.1, 12.1, 14.1, 14.2, 15.1, and 16.1 within
30 days.             