 Case Number:  23STCV28309    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’
Motion to Reopen Discovery and Compel Site Inspection 
Defendants
Clan Co, Alison Wattles, Frank Wattles, and Marion Wattles move to reopen
discovery and compel a site inspection. 
Defendants show good cause to do so. 

Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b) provides: 
In exercising its discretion to grant or deny [a motion to reopen
discovery], the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously
set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
Inspecting the stairs is highly
necessary.  Plaintiff alleges they are
unsafe and that defendants refused to repair them.  (Comp., ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff put the condition of the stairs directly
at issue in this action. 
Defendants show minimal diligence.  They state they retained an expert to inspect
the staircase, but he belatedly said he would not testify at trial.  (Montgomery Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  They do not, however, show any attempt to
inspect the stairs until May 7, 2024.  (Id.,
¶ 9, Ex. B.)  
Permitting this discovery is not likely to
prevent the case from going to trial as set. 
Defendants estimate that inspecting the stairs will take less than two
hours and estimate they can repair the stairs over two days of work.  (Montgomery Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.)
Finally, the trial in this case was set
for June 5, 2024, after plaintiff successfully moved for trial preference.  The court later continued the trial to June
26.  Moving for trial preference
substantially reduced the parties’ time to complete discovery. 
After considering all relevant factors, the
court finds good cause to reopen discovery solely to permit defendants to
inspect the stairs at the subject property. 
Despite defendants’ lack of diligence, the discovery they seek is both important
enough and narrow enough to justify reopening discovery for that purpose.  
Plaintiff’s objections to defendants’
demand for site inspection are overruled.  
Disposition
            Defendants
Clan
Co, Alison Wattles, Frank Wattles, and Marion Wattles’s motion to reopen
discovery and compel site inspection is granted.  The court hereby reopens discovery
solely for defendants’ site inspection of the subject property.  Plaintiff
is ordered to permit defendants to inspect the stairs at the subject
property.  The parties shall meet and
confer no later than May 31 to select a time and date for the site
inspection.  