 Case Number:  23STCV23403    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Jessica Carlson’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to (1) Form
Interrogatories, (2) Special Interrogatories, and (3) Requests for Production
Plaintiff
Jessica Carlson moves to compel defendant California Clinic Management, LLC dba
Acuity Eye Group (Acuity) to further respond to form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, and requests for production. 

A
party may move to compel further responses to interrogatories when an answer
“is evasive or incomplete” (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1) or an objection “is without
merit or too general” (CCP § 2030.300(a)(3)). 
A party demanding
documents may move to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (CCP §
2031.310(a).)
Acuity made meritless objections in
response to all disputed discovery requests. 
“[I]f a timely motion to
compel has been filed, the burden is on responding party to justify any
objection.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
Acuity only attempts to justify one objection: that it should not have
to respond to this discovery because (a) defendants moved to compel arbitration,
and (b) after the court denied the motion, defendants moved to stay the action
pending appeal.  
The initial objection was legitimate at
the time.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4 provides, “If an application has been made … for an order to
arbitrate a controversy … and such application is undetermined, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application
for an order to arbitrate is determined.” 
Acuity reasonably refused to respond to discovery until the court ruled
on defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. 
But the court denied the motion on April 10.  Moving to stay the action pending appeal does
not stay the action in the period between filing that motion and the court
ruling on it.  Acuity cannot indefinitely
delay its discovery obligations.  
Except for objections to the requests for
production based on attorney-client privilege and attorney work product, Acuity’s
objections to plaintiff’s discovery requests are overruled.
In each motion, plaintiff moves for $7,500
in sanctions against Acuity.  The court
exercises its discretion not to impose sanctions against Acuity.  It acted with substantial justification in objecting
to discovery on the basis that defendants had moved to compel arbitration.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff Jessica Carlson’s motion
to compel defendant California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity
Eye Group to further respond to form interrogatories is granted.  Defendant California Clinic Management, LLC
dba Acuity Eye Group is ordered to serve further verified responses
without objections to form interrogatories Nos. .1, 3.1-3.7, 4.1, 4.2,
12.1-12.7, 13.1, 13.2, 14.1 within 30 days.
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant
California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group to further respond to
special interrogatories is granted. 
Defendant California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group is ordered
to serve further verified responses without objections to special
interrogatories Nos. 1 and 2 within 30 days.
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel defendant California Clinic Management, LLC
dba Acuity Eye Group to further respond to requests for production is granted.  Defendant
California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group is
ordered to serve further verified
responses to requests for production Nos. 1-99, including a privilege log,
within 30 days.  Defendant must make no
objections except those based on attorney-client privilege or the work product
doctrine.  Defendant shall produce
all responsive documents concurrently with its written responses.  Defendant shall identify which documents
respond to which demands for inspection. 