 Case Number:  24TRCV00689    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to StrikeThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition was filed.RULINGDefendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.BACKGROUNDOn February 28, 2024, Plaintiff Pedro Jimenez Jr. Castro filed a complaint against Defendant Gerardo Antonio Gutierrez, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence, arising out of a vehicle collision that allegedly occurred on March 3, 2022. The complaint alleges that Defendant rear-ended Plaintiff, which caused Plaintiff’s vehicle to strike the vehicle in front of him. Plaintiff alleges Defendant was under the influence at the time and speeding.On April 25, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike.LEGAL AUTHORITYAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)DISCUSSIONi. Meet and Confer RequirementsDefendant submits the Declaration of Rochelle Rajazi, which adequately shows Counsel attempted to meet and confer prior to bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5.)ii. MeritsDefendant moves to strike the claim for punitive damages.To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)Allegations that a defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show malice. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, 895-96.) The Taylor court concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of “malice” under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences. “One who willfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the safety of others.” (Id. at p. 897.)To properly allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff needs to “establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Id. at p. 896.) If the essential gravamen of the complaint is that “Defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby” then this is sufficient to allege punitive damages. (Ibid.) While a history of prior arrests, convictions and mishaps may heighten the probability and foreseeability of an accident, we do not deem these aggravating factors essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving cases. (Ibid.)Taylor fell short, however, of holding that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated. The Court noted, “we have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed undercircumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Id. at p. 892.)Notably, a subsequent decision held that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages. “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver's decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The risk of injury to others from [the defendant’s] conduct under the circumstances alleged was probable.” (Dawes v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89.)Further, Taylor was decided prior to 1987, at which time the Legislature added the requirement to Civil Code Section 3294 that conduct be “despicable” in order to support imposition of punitive damages under a malice/willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others standard. “[T]he statute's reference to ‘despicable’ conduct seems to represent a new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.¿Used in its ordinary sense, the adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p. 529.)¿As amended to include this word,¿the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (Coll. Hosp., supra, 8 Cal. 4th at 725 [emphasis added].) There has been no subsequent decision holding that drinking and driving, without exacerbating circumstances that make injury probable, gives rise to a claim for punitive damages.The Court finds that the allegations in the complaint regarding the intoxication of Defendant are insufficient to support the imposition of punitive damages. The only potential aggravating circumstance alleged is speeding, but as discussed in Taylor and Dawes, specific factual circumstances must be pled which show that the risk of injury was probable, e.g., weaving through lanes of traffic, a previous conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol, or driving while simultaneously drinking alcohol. The fact that Defendant rear-ended a vehicle when he was intoxicated, without more specific facts of aggravating circumstances does not warrant punitive damages.Based on the foregoing, the motion to strike punitive damages is granted.The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Plaintiff has not filed an opposition and has failed to show how the pleading can be successfully amended. Therefore, the court will not allow leave to amend.Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.