  Case Number:  19TRCV00361    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendants’ motion, plaintiffs’ opposition, and defendants’ reply, and the associated declarations and exhibits, the court rules as follows: the motion for clarification of the court’s statements of decision on defendants’ motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication is denied.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDThis action arises from the alleged theft of trade secrets. (Complaint, ¶¶ 28-29.)On April 16, 2019, Plaintiff Uemura Corporation (“Uemura”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Tomoyuki Miyano (“Miyano”), Core Corporation Co., Ltd. (“Core Corporation”), and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets—California Uniform Trade Secrets Act; (2) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (4) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; and (5) Unfair Business Practices.On July 31, 2020, Plaintiffs Uemura and UTI Corporation (“UTI”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Miyano, Core Corporation, Farrar Aerospace, LLC (“Farrar”), Aero Precision Industries LLC, and DOES 1-100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets—California Uniform Trade Secrets Act; (2) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Intentional Interference with ProspectiveEconomic Relations; (4) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (5) Unfair Business Practices; (6) Breach of Contract; (7) Breach of Contract; and (8) Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty.On November 19, 2020, pursuant to Plaintiff Uemura’s Request for Dismissal, Defendant Aero Precision Industries LLC was dismissed from this action without prejudice.On April 28, 2021, after hearing oral argument, the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendants Miyano and Core Corporation to the second and fifth causes of action in the FAC with 30 days leave to amend. (04/28/21 Minute Order.)On May 28, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Miyano, Core Corporation, and Farrar alleging causes of action for: (1) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; (2) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (3) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (4) Unfair Business Practices; (5) Breach of Contract; and (6) Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty.On March 3, 2022, after hearing oral argument, the Court denied the demurrer of Defendants Miyano and Core Corporation to the SAC, as well as the demurrer of Defendant Farrar to the SAC. (03/03/22 Minute Order.) Also, on such date, the Court denied the motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens filed by Defendants Miyano and Core Corporation. (03/03/22 Minute Order.)On March 9, 2022, Defendant Farrar filed an Answer to the SAC.On March 11, 2022, Defendants Miyano and Core Corporation filed a joint Answer to the SAC.On May 24, 2023, the instant action was deemed related to the matter of Tomoyuki Miyano v. Uemura Corporation, LASC Case No. 22TRCV01352, with the instant action being deemed the lead case. (05/24/23 Minute Order.)On November 2, 2023, Defendant Farrar filed a Motion for Summary Judgment as to the fifth and sixth causes of action in the SAC (the “Farrar Motion”). The motion was made on the grounds that there was no triable issue of material fact and Defendant Farrar was entitled to summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication as a matter of law. Defendant Farrar argued that Plaintiffs could not state a prima facie case against Defendant Farrar for breach of contract or for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duties.On November 8, 2023, Defendants Miyano and Core Corporation (collectively, the “Core Defendants”) filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, a Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “Core Motion”).On March 13, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a Third Amended Complaint. (03/13/24 Minute Order at p. 7.) The Court deemed the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) to be served and filed on March 13, 2024. (03/13/24 Minute Order at p. 7.)Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the respective motions for summary judgment, to which the respective defendants filed reply briefs.On April 10, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court took the respective motions for summary judgment under submission.On April 19, 2024, the Court issued a Statement of Decision as to the Farrar Motion (the “Farrar Statement of Decision”). The Court granted Defendant Farrar’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action and denied the motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action.As to the fifth cause of action, the Court indicated that there “is no evidence, or reasonable inference therefrom, which would support Plaintiffs’ position that they entered into an overarching sales agreement with defendant Farrar. At best, Plaintiffs established that UTI entered into a series of contracts with JMOD on behalf of Farrar; however, none of these individual contracts is at issue in this action.” (Farrar Statement of Decision at p. 9.)As to the sixth cause of action in connection with the Farrar Motion, the Court founds that Plaintiffs showed evidence that Defendant Farrar knew that Defendant Miyano was breaching his duty of loyalty to Plaintiff UTI. (Farrar Statement of Decision at p. 12.) The Court also found that there was evidence presented as to whether Defendant Farrar gave substantial assistance to Defendant Miyano in Defendant Miyano’s breach. (Farrar Statement of Decision at p. 13.) The Court also found that there was evidence that Defendant Farrar’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to Plaintiffs. (Farrar Statement of Decision at p. 13.) As such, the Court denied Defendant Farrar’s motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duties. (Farrar Statement of Decision at p. 13.)Also, on April 19, 2024, the Court issued a Statement of Decision as to the Core Motion (the “Core Statement of Decision”) and the Court granted summary adjudication as to the first and third causes of action, and issue number 6 and denied summary adjudication as to the second and fourth causes of action and issue numbers 4 and 5. (Core Statement of Decision at p. 1.)As to the second cause of action, the Court clearly set forth the evidence that was in dispute and indicated that there was sufficient evidence to support each element of the second cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic relations. (Core Statement of Decision at pp. 12-13.) Concerning the fourth cause of action for unfair business practices, the Court referenced its analysis as to the second cause of action and indicated that the motion was denied as to the fourth cause of action for unfair business practices. (Core Statement of Decision at p. 15.) The Court denied the Core Motion as to Issue Number 4—which was that Plaintiff Uemura’s claims were barred because it could not overcome the competition privilege—because Plaintiffs showed sufficient evidence to support its cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. (Core Statement of Decision at p. 16.) As to the Court denying the Core Motion as to Issue Number 5, which concerned the standing of Plaintiff Uemura to bring an action under the California Unfair Competition Law because it did not lose money due to Defendants’ unfair competition, the Court found that Plaintiffs presented sufficientevidence and reasonable inferences therefrom that Plaintiff Uemura has standing to bring a cause of action under the UCL. (Core Statement of Decision at p. 16.)On May 21, 2024, the Core Defendants filed and served the instant Motion for Clarification on the Court’s Statements of Decision on Defendants’ Motions for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication. The Core Defendants “request that the Court clarify that the triable issue regarding injury and damages in this case does not encompass Plaintiffs’ alleged damages for all of Core Defendants’ future profits but only those included in the Courts’ Rulings.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 4:18-22.)On May 23, 2024, Defendant Farrar filed a Notice of Joinder to the Core Defendants’ motion for clarification.On May 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the motion of the Core Defendants, to which the Core Defendants replied on June 6, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs allege that Defendant Miyano, who is a shareholder of Plaintiff Uemura and a former employee of Plaintiff Uemura’s affiliate company in Japan, Plaintiff UTI, stole confidential information consisting of Plaintiffs’ trade secrets to unlawfully compete with Plaintiffs for forming a new company, Defendant Core Corporation. Plaintiffs also allege the improper solicitation of its customers. Plaintiffs allege that Plaintiff Uemura purchased, imported, and exported military parts and services directly from Defendant Farrar. After being solicited by Defendant Miyano, Defendant Farrar terminated its business relationship with Plaintiff Uemura.III. LEGAL STANDARD“[U]pon a motion for summary judgment or alternatively for summary adjudication of issues, the court shall specify those issues that are without controversy and those issues as to which there exists a material, triable controversy.” (Tera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 530, 532.) “As to the latter, the court shall specifically refer to the evidence proffered in support of and in opposition to the motion which indicates that such triable controversy exists.” (Ibid.)Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(g) provides as follows:Upon the denial of a motion for summary judgment on the grounds that there is a triable issue as to one or more material facts, the court shall, by written or oral order, specify one or more material facts raised by the motion that the court has determined there exists a triable controversy. This determination shall specifically refer to the evidence proffered in support of and in opposition to the motion that indicates that a triable controversy exists. Upon the grant of a motion for summary judgment on the ground that there is no triable issue of material fact, the court shall, by written or oral order, specify the reasons for its determination. The order shall specifically refer to the evidence proffered in support of and, if applicable, in opposition to themotion that indicates no triable issue exists. The court shall also state its reasons for any other determination. The court shall record its determination by court reporter or written order.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (g).)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsCore Defendants contend that a motion requesting clarification is proper pursuant to CCP § 437c(g). Specifically, Core Defendants argue that the rulings require clarification of the triable issues of material fact regarding Plaintiffs’ alleged damages for the surviving second, fourth, and sixth causes of action.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiffs argue that the motion should be denied because the Court’s statements of decision comply with CCP § 437c(g). Plaintiffs further contend that Defendants do not actually seek clarification but an improper order restricting the scope of recoverable damages.Moving Party’s ReplyOn reply, Core Defendants argue that the request for clarification as to the triable issues of material fact is consistent with CCP § 437c(g) and that their motion is proper.Merits of the MotionThe Court has reviewed the Statements of Decision pertaining to the Farrar Motion and the Core Motion. (Hand Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Exhs. C and D.)The Core Defendants indicate that they seek clarification as to whether damages for the surviving second, fourth, and sixth causes of action are limited to: “(1) any commissions obtained by Core and/or Farrar in connection with quotes that were originally requested by UTI (i.e., RFQ ‘RGAN180622’), prior to February 17, 2019, while Miyano was a UTI employee, but for which purchase orders were later issued and completed with Core; and (2) that Plaintiffs’ failed to provided [sic] sufficient evidence or factual controversy that their alleged damages may target all of Core Defendants’ profits from transactions with the Manufacturers that were issued and completed after Miyano left UTI.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 7:1-9.)As to the Farrar Motion, the Court’s statement of decision clearly assessed the evidence presented by the parties and set forth that Plaintiffs set forth a reasonable inference that they were damaged by the actions of Defendant Farrar. (Hand Decl., Exh. D.) As such, the Court also found that Plaintiffs presented evidence that Defendant Farrar gave substantial assistance to Defendant Miyano in his breach. (Hand Decl., Exh. D.) The Court identified the material facts which are in dispute. (Hand Decl., Exh. D.)As to the Core Motion, the Court specifically set forth the evidence of the parties, the facts that are in dispute, and thus identified the triable issues of fact as to the second and fourth causes of action. (Hand Decl., Exh. C.)The Court therefore finds that the Court’s Statements of Decision comply with CCP § 437c(g).As a general rule, “[a] motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action.” Code Civ. Pro. § 437c(f)(1). Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 251 (“Summary adjudication must completely dispose of the cause of action to which it is directed.”). However, “[a] recognized exception to the statutory language above holds that where two or more separate and distinct wrongful acts are combined in the same cause of action in a complaint, a party may present a summary adjudication motion that pertains to some, but not all of the separate and distinct wrongful acts.” Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC. V. Owen (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549. Although “cause of action,” as used in Section 437c(f)(1) may be interpreted in different ways, “the clearly articulated legislative intent of [that Section] is effectuated by applying the section in a manner which would provide for the determination on the merits of summary adjudication motions involving separate and distinct wrongful acts which are combined in the same cause of action.” Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854. For example, in Lielenthal, the plaintiff sued defendants for legal malpractice in connection with two separate and distinct legal matters. The court concluded that the two matters involved separate and distinct obligations and, therefore, two separate causes of action, regardless of how pled in the complaint. (Id.)Here, the Court was tasked only with determining whether there was a legal basis for the Plaintiffs’ claims to move forward. As the Court determined that there is, the issue of damages is still relevant as to the remaining causes of action. In their motion, Defendants did not attempt to identify separate and distinct wrongful acts within one cause of action and did not ask the Court to divide the causes of action under Blue Mountain Enterprises, and the Court declines to speculate as to how such an argument would have been decided.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the DENIES the Core Defendants’ Motion for Clarification of the Court’s Statements of Decision on Defendants’ Motions for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication.