 Case Number:  23TRCV01256    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  P Motion: Motion to Approve Prop. 65 Stipulated Consent JudgmentBACKGROUNDPlaintiff CalSafe Research Center, Inc. (“CRC”) seeks the Court’s approval of the Proposed Consent Judgment (“Consent Judgment”) with Defendant Mariani Packing Co., Inc. (“Mariani”) in this Health and Safety Code § 25249.6 et seq. (“Proposition 65”) action. The Consent Judgment resolves Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant has exposed individuals to lead from its sales of Probiotic Apricots; Dried Fancy Apricots; Dried Mediterranean Apricots; Dried Mango; and Dried Pineapple (collectively “Covered Products”) which are sold and/or distributed by Defendant Mariani in the State of California, without first providing clear and reasonable exposure warnings under Proposition 65. Pursuant to Proposition 65, lead is listed as a chemical known to cause cancer, birth defects and other reproductive harm.The Consent Judgment was reached through negotiations between Plaintiff and Defendant, each of whom was represented by separate counsel. Moreover, the Consent Judgment is fair and reasonable to the Parties, is in the interest of, and provides a benefit to, the general public, fully complies with the statutory requirements of Proposition 65, and has been submitted with a copy of these moving papers to the California Attorney General for review pursuant to Health & Safety Code § 25249.7(f). The California Attorney General’s office has not made any indication that it will oppose this consent judgment. Accordingly, Plaintiff requests that the Court grant this motion to approve the Consent Judgment and enter judgment in accordance with its terms.STIPULATED CONSENT JUDGMENTPlaintiff represents to the Court that the Consent Judgment meets the requirements of Proposition 65 and is in the public interest. Specifically, Health & Safety Code § 25249.7, subdivision (f)(4) requires court approval of settlements entered into by private Parties in a Proposition 65 enforcement action. To approve the settlement, the Court must make three findings:(i) the injunctive relief required by the settlement complies withProposition 65;(ii) the Civil Penalty amount is reasonably based on the criteria set forthin Health & Safety Code §§ 25249.7, subdivision (b)(2); and(iii) the attorneys' fees and costs awarded are reasonable underCalifornia law.As discussed in more detail below, the terms and conditions of the Consent Judgment support these findings. In the present case, a factual basis to support all three findings clearly exists.The Consent Judgment fulfills the statutory aims of Prop 65 because it ensures that users of the Covered Products are either: (1) not exposed to lead above the 0.5 micrograms threshold set by OEHHA; or (2) are given a clear and reasonable warning that such exposures may occur. To effectuate these goals, the Consent Judgment Provides, in pertinent part, that beginning twelve (12) months from the Effective Date, Defendant shall be permanently enjoined from manufacturing for sale in the State of California, distributing into the State of California, or directly selling in the State of California, any Covered Products that exposes a person to a “Daily Lead Exposure Level” of more than 0.5 micrograms of lead per day, unless it meets the warning requirements under Section 3.4.The Consent Judgment meets the requirements of Proposition 65, is fair and reasonable, and is in the public interest. Among other things, the Settlement provides that commencing as of the effective date, Defendant shall take any and all necessary measures to ensure that lead levels in a Products are, on average, kept below that requiring a cancer and reproductive health warning under Proposition 65. In the alternative, the Products must be accompanied by the appropriate warning.On balance, the following statutory factors support a finding that the Civil Penalty is appropriate: (i) The amount of the Civil Penalty is sufficient to remind Defendant and its management that it must remain aware of, and consistently attend to implementing, Proposition 65 requirements.; (ii) Pursuant to the Consent Judgment, Defendant will ensure that all Products sold in California are Products that are labeled with a clear and reasonable Proposition 65 compliant exposure warning or Defendant shall not distribute, sell, or offer for sale the Products in California; (iii) Defendant maintains that it did not intentionally violate Proposition 65. Once Defendant was apprised of Plaintiff's claim, it immediately took action to resolve the claim and make sure that, going forward, there is no question that it complies with Proposition 65; (iv) Plaintiff considers the sale of Products containing lead without the requisite exposure warning to be a severe violation of Proposition 65; (v) Defendant's payment of the Civil Penalty provides an incentive for Defendant to continue to comply with Proposition 65.Further, by virtue of word-of-mouth in the industry and the fact that the Consent Judgment, if approved, will be a matter of public record, it is reasonably likely that other companies selling products containing lead in California will be made aware of this action. Such awareness can be expected to induce those other companies to comply with Proposition 65, in order that they might avoid similar payments of fees and costs. Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd. (b)(2).In addition, the negotiated civil penalty of this range has been found reasonable in othersimilar Proposition 65 food litigation cases: Embry v. Loacker USA, Inc. (Case No. RGI 9001295), which involved wafer products, the Hon. Ronni McLaren approved a negotiated civil penalty amount of $6,000 and attorney's fees of $54,000; In Embry v. Nonni's Food’s, LLC (Case No. RG 19040759), which involved biscotti products, the Hon. Jeffrey Brand approved a negotiated civil penalty amount of $7,000 and attorney's fees of $58,000. As part of the Consent Judgment, Defendant agreed to pay $81,900.00 to Plaintiff’s counsel, Manning Law, APC as completereimbursement for Plaintiff's attorneys' fees and costs incurred as a result of bringing this matter to Defendant’s attention and subsequently litigating it. In the course of investigating and preparing the claim, Plaintiff incurred in excess of $96,582.67 in attorneys' fees and costs. (JRM Decl. ¶20).As set forth in the Attorney General's guidelines for evaluating the reasonableness of an award of fees under Proposition 65, a party may be deemed successful so as to permit such an award "if the plaintiffs action was the cause or 'catalyst' of the change in conduct." CCR, Tit. 11, § 3201, subd. (a); CCP, § 1021.5, subd. (a). As reflected in the Consent Judgment, the Products at issue must be tested and the lead levels must remain below the safe harbor threshold. Accordingly, CRC maintains that it operated as the catalyst in achieving these results in the public interest.Lastly, there are no material facts in dispute concerning the settlement terms and the Parties' intent for Defendant to comply with the injunctive component of the Consent Judgment, as well as pay the foregoing costs and fees.CONCLUSIONThe Court finds that based upon the foregoing standard of review, the declaration and Plaintiff’s contentions, the Court should approve the Consent Judgment, as agreed upon by the Parties.Thus, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Approve Proposition 65 Settlement and Stipulated Consent Judgment.Moving party to give notice.