 Case Number:  22STCV10587    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On March
28, 2022, Plaintiffs Tracy Sorcelli and Henry Sorcelli filed this action
against Defendants Southern California Orthopedic Institute, Skip Presley, and
Does 1-100 for medical negligence and loss of consortium. 
On September
25, 2023, Defendants Skip Presley and Southern California Orthopedic Institute
LP, sued and served as Southern California Orthopedic Institute (“Defendants”),
filed an answer. 
On
October 2, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to require Plaintiffs to file an
undertaking of $37,800.00 as security for costs.  The motion was set for hearing on December 4,
2024.  On November 20, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition.  On November 22,
2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
asks the Court to order Plaintiffs to file an undertaking of $37,800.00 as
security for costs. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1030 provides: 
“(a) When the
plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a
foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by
noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to
secure an award of costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action
or special proceeding. For the purposes of this section, ‘attorney’s fees’
means reasonable attorney’s fees a party may be authorized to recover by a
statute apart from this section or by contract. 
“(b) The motion shall be made on the grounds that the
plaintiff resides out of the state or is a foreign corporation and that there
is a reasonable possibility that the moving defendant will obtain judgment in
the action or special proceeding. The motion shall be accompanied by an
affidavit in support of the grounds for the motion and by a memorandum of points
and authorities. The affidavit shall set forth the nature and amount of the
costs and attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur by
the conclusion of the action or special proceeding. 
“(c) If the
court, after hearing, determines that the grounds for the motion have been
established, the court shall order that the plaintiff file the undertaking in
an amount specified in the court’s order as security for costs and attorney’s
fees. 
“(d) The
plaintiff shall file the undertaking not later than 30 days after service of
the court’s order requiring it or within a greater time allowed by the court.
If the plaintiff fails to file the undertaking within the time allowed, the
plaintiff’s action or special proceeding shall be dismissed as to the defendant
in whose favor the order requiring the undertaking was made. 
“(e) If the
defendant’s motion for an order requiring an undertaking is filed not later
than 30 days after service of summons on the defendant, further proceedings may
be stayed in the discretion of the court upon application to the court by the
defendant by noticed motion for the stay until 10 days after the motion for the
undertaking is denied or, if granted, until 10 days after the required
undertaking has been filed and the defendant has been served with a copy of the
undertaking. The hearing on the application for the stay shall be held not
later than 60 days after service of the summons. If the defendant files a
motion for an order requiring an undertaking, which is granted but the
defendant objects to the undertaking, the court may in its discretion stay the
proceedings not longer than 10 days after a sufficient undertaking has been
filed and the defendant has been served with a copy of the undertaking. 
“(f) The
determinations of the court under this section have no effect on the
determination of any issues on the merits of the action or special proceeding
and may not be given in evidence nor referred to in the trial of the action or
proceeding. 
“(g) An order
granting or denying a motion for an undertaking under this section is not
appealable.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1030.) 
“Even if the defendant establishes the grounds for an
undertaking, the trial court may waive the requirement if the plaintiff
establishes indigency.”  (Alshafie v.
Lallande (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 429 (Alshafie).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 995.240
provides: “The court may, in its discretion, waive a provision
for a bond in an action or proceeding and make such orders as may be
appropriate as if the bond were given, if the court determines that the
principal is unable to give the bond because the principal is indigent and is
unable to obtain sufficient sureties, whether personal or admitted surety
insurers. In exercising its discretion the court shall take into consideration
all factors it deems relevant, including but not limited to the character of
the action or proceeding, the nature of the beneficiary, whether public or
private, and the potential harm to the beneficiary if the provision for the
bond is waived.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
995.240; see Alshafie, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 429.) 
“The public policy underlying an indigent’s
entitlement to a waiver of security costs is essentially ‘access trumps
comfort.’ ” (Alshafie, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at p. 429, quoting Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1442 (conc. opn. of Johnson, J.) (Baltayan).)  “ ‘In ruling indigents are entitled to a
waiver of security for costs, [the State is] saying one party’s economic
interest in receiving its costs of litigation should it win cannot be used to
deny an indigent his fundamental right of access to the courts.’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Baltayan, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1442; see Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 175, 185 [“ ‘[r]estricting an
indigent’s access to the courts because of his poverty ... contravenes the
fundamental notions of equality and fairness which since the earliest days of
the common law have found expression in the right to proceed in forma pauperis’
”].) 
“In the first instance the ‘party seeking relief from
the requirement of posting a bond or undertaking has the burden of proof to
show entitlement to such relief.’ ” (Alshafie, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at p. 432, quoting Williams v. FreedomCard, Inc. (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 609, 614.) 
“[A] plaintiff is not obligated to obtain in forma
pauperis status to be entitled to a waiver of the section 1030 bond
requirement.” (Alshafie, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 434, citing
Conover v. Hall (1974) 11 Cal.3d 842, 852 [in forma pauperis application
is not required before relief can be granted from statutory bond requirement].)
 “Under these circumstances, when the
plaintiff has, for whatever reason, elected not to seek in forma pauperis
status, there is no rigid standard for the requisite showing of indigency; and,
as discussed, it ultimately remains within the court’s discretion to determine
whether to grant a waiver.”  (Ibid.,
citing Code Civ. Proc., § 995.240; Baltayan, supra, 90
Cal.App.4th at p. 1443 (conc. opn. of Johnson, J.) [“Obviously the court had
the power and the duty to determine whether a litigant, including appellant, is
indigent and possesses a colorable claim, and thus is qualified for in forma
pauperis relief. In that sense, it is a discretionary decision.”].) 
“Certainly, however, a plaintiff seeking such a waiver
would be well advised to provide the detailed financial information requested
on the mandatory Judicial Council form for obtaining in forma pauperis status.
Completing that form would provide the trial court with a solid basis for
making the waiver decision . . . .” (Alshafie, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at p. 434.) 
“[T]o fulfill its statutory duties when exercising its
discretion, the court must review the plaintiff’s showing, identify
deficiencies, if any, and give the plaintiff the opportunity to supply
additional information that may be necessary to establish his or her
entitlement to a waiver under the circumstances of the particular case.  [Fn. omitted.] Only by taking such a
proactive role can the trial court properly balance the respective rights of
the parties while minimizing the circumstances in which a potentially
meritorious case is dismissed solely because the plaintiff cannot post an
undertaking.”   (Alshafie, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at pp. 435-436.) 

DISCUSSION              
A.   The complaint 
          The complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
or about April 19, 2021, Defendants negligently examined, diagnosed, advised,
cared, treated, and administered to Plaintiff Tracy Sorcelli.  In their examination, diagnosis, advice, care,
treatment and administration of medical care to Plaintiff Tracy Sorcelli, Defendants
failed to exercise that degree of skill and care commonly possessed and
exercised by health care providers, medical practitioners, medical doctors,
medical specialists, physicians, surgeons, physician’s assistants, nurses,
technicians, aides, radiologists, anesthetists, laboratory assistants, x-ray
assistants and/or medical facilities who perform
the same and similar treatment and diagnostic procedures in the area where Defendants
practice.  As a result of Defendants’
negligence, Plaintiff Tracy Sorcelli was injured. 
          Henry Sorcelli, Tracy Sorcelli’s husband, asserts a claim
for loss of consortium. 
B.   Defendants’ motion 
Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs live in Arizona and there is a reasonable possibility
that Defendants will prevail in the case.  Defendants
estimate that they will incur costs of $37,829.09 through trial.  They ask the Court to order Plaintiffs to post
a bond of $37,800.00. 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Court should waive the bond undertaking
because they are indigent.  Plaintiffs
have submitted declarations stating that they have approximately $300 in their
checking account, no savings account, and no investments. Aside from their home
and a shared vehicle, they own no property of any significant value, real or
personal. They are retired and have not worked since 2022. Tracy Sorcelli’s
only sources of income are Social Security Disability payments and a modest
retirement benefit which, together, bring in approximately $2,400 per month. Henry Sorcelli receives Social Security benefits as well as a modest retirement
benefit totaling approximately $3,000. Plaintiffs’ monthly living expenses
include the following: Groceries $800; Electricity $400; Water $100; Cell
phones $444; Cable $187; Medications $176; HOA Fees $101; Car Insurance
$189.98; Home Owners Insurance $173.34; Loan Repayment $150; Lowes Credit Card
$200; Home Depot Credit Card $150; Medical Co-pays $70; Waste Management $53;
Pool Cleaner $260; Wells Fargo Loan $329.82; Home Republic Ins. $301; Dog Food
$300; Amazon $100; Orthodontist $200; Vet Bills $400; Total Monthly Expenses:
$5,085.  When living expenses are paid there
is nothing left over.  Plaintiffs assert
that they are unable to pay the requested undertaking and do not have the
ability to get a bond for it.  They cannot proceed with the lawsuit if required
to post the undertaking. 
In
reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs “did not provide evidence of indigency
or that they attempted to and were ‘unable to obtain sufficient sureties,’
which is required to request a waiver of the undertaking under section 995.240.”  (Reply p. 2.) In Alshafie, the Court of Appeal rejected the contention
that a plaintiff must unsuccessfully attempt to obtain a bond before he or she
may be granted a waiver of the section 1030 requirement for an undertaking,
stating, “[i]f it is apparent from the plaintiff’s declaration and financial
information that obtaining an undertaking would be impossible, the law does not
require the futile act of attempting to do so.” 
(Alshafie, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 435, fn. 10.)  The Court of Appeal added: “Similarly,
although information concerning the unavailability of relatives or friends to
provide the resources for a bond may be of interest, we are unaware of any
basis—statutory or otherwise—for requiring a litigant to demonstrate that
people outside his or her own household or nuclear family cannot assist in
paying court fees or costs.”  (Ibid.)  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs' declarations show that obtaining an undertaking would be impossible.
Defendants
also suggest that Plaintiffs were required to submit “tax returns, receipts or
other substantive documentation” to support their declarations.  (Reply p. 4.) 
However, Defendants base this argument on a reference to the trial court
ruling which the Court of Appeal reversed in Alshafie.  (See Reply p. 4, citing Alshafie, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at p. 427.) 
The
Court concludes that Plaintiffs have carried their burden of showing they are
entitled to relief from the undertaking requirement under Code of Civil Procedure
section 995.240.  The Court denies Defendants' motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion filed by Defendants Skip Presley and Southern
California Orthopedic Institute LP to require Plaintiffs Tracy Sorcelli and
Henry Sorcelli to file an undertaking. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.