 Case Number:  22STCV05186    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND  
On
February 10, 2022, Plaintiff Martin Castro Vela (“Vela”) filed this action
against Defendants State of California (“State”), County of Los Angeles
(“County”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), Vesta Housing Solutions, LLC
(“Vesta”), and Does 1-20 for (“Vesta”) for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
June 27, 2022, Vesta filed an answer.  On
June 30, 2022, Vesta filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes
1-100 for implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable
indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 1, 2022, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at Vela’s
request. On August 18, 2022, the Court dismissed the County and the State
without prejudice at Vela’s request. 
On
September 6, 2022, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Bernards
Bros. Inc. dba Bernards as Doe 1 (“Bernards”). On October 12, 2022, Bernards
filed an answer. 
On
September 11, 2023, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant TMP
Services, Inc. as Doe 2 (“TMP”). 
On
November 7, 2023, TMP filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Bernard Bros. Inc., Vesta, and Moes 1-20 for indemnity,
contribution, comparative partial indemnity, and declaratory
relief—apportionment of fault. On November 28, 2023, Bernards and Vesta filed
an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint. On December 18, 2023, TMP amended its
cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Preferred
Modular Structures, Inc. as Moe 1 (“Preferred”). On January 25, 2024, the
Court dismissed Bernard Bros. Inc. and Vesta from TMP’s cross-complaint without
prejudice at TMP’s request. 
On
February 16, 2024, Vela amended the complaint to include Defendant Preferred as
Doe 3. On April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to Vela’s complaint. 
On
April 22, 2024, Preferred filed an answer to TMP’s cross-complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Vela, State, County, City, Vesta,
Bernards, TMP, and Zoes 1-50 for indemnification, contribution, declaratory
relief—apportionment of fault, and comparative partial indemnity. On May 17,
2024, Bernards and Vesta filed an answer to Preferred’s cross-complaint. On
July 29, 2024, the Court dismissed the County from Preferred’s cross-complaint
without prejudice at Preferred’s request. 
On
October 16, 2024, Preferred filed a motion to continue the trial and related pretrial
dates.  The motion was set for hearing on
December 4, 2024.  On November 19, 2024, Vela
filed an opposition.  On November 25,
2024, Preferred filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 6, 2025. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
C.   Summary judgment scheduling 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) provides: 
“(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State
of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address
is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The
filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must
otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a).) 
To
satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary judgment motion “must be
served at least 105 days before trial (longer if served by mail)
[citation].  Motions served
electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:71, pp. 10-32 to
10-33.)  “The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under
[Code of Civil Procedure section 437c] is measured from the trial date in
effect when the summary judgment motion is made.”  (Id., ¶ 10:74, p. 10-33.)   “[A] continuance of the trial date ‘reopens’
the time for such motions.”  (Ibid.) 
“A
trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 437c.”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.) 
DISCUSSION 
Preferred
asks the Court to continue the trial and related pretrial dates because
Preferred’s current counsel substituted into the case on August 15, 2024 and
needs additional time to prepare a motion for summary judgment. 
Although
Preferred argues that its current counsel substituted into the case in August
2024, Preferred has not made “an affirmative showing that the substitution [was]
required in the interests of justice . . . .” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c)(4).) 
Based
on the current February 6, 2025 trial date, Preferred would have had to file and serve a motion for summary judgment motion in October 2024. On
December 18, 2023, TMP amended its cross-complaint to include Preferred as a
cross-defendant.  On February 16, 2024, Vela amended the complaint to
include Preferred as a defendant. 
Preferred has not shown that it had insufficient time to prepare and file a
motion for summary judgment by the October 2024 deadline. 
The
Court has considered the factors listed in California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), and finds that Preferred has not established good cause to continue
the trial.  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant and Cross-Defendant Preferred
Modular Structures, Inc.’s motion to continue the trial and related pretrial
dates. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.