  Case Number:  21STCV38985    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  15 ORDER RE MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT (GRAYBAR)
On October 22, 2021,
Plaintiffs Donna Frizzell and Carroll Frizzell filed this action alleging Donna
Frizzell developed mesothelioma as a result of secondary exposure from her
husband’s work with asbestos-containing products.  On November 28, 2023, Defendant Graybar
Electronic Company, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment and alternatively
summary adjudication of the fraud and conspiracy causes of action and request
for punitive damages.  Plaintiffs stated
they needed a continuance to depose Graybar, which the court granted.  The parties then filed supplemental briefs
A.        Objections
            1.         Plaintiffs’
Objections
The Court did not rely on
the Netherton Declaration. 
            2.         Defendant’s
Objections
Nos. 1-3:  Sustained.
Nos. 4-11:  The Court did not rely on this evidence. 
B.        Summary Judgment
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s
case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue
of fact that requires the process of trial.” 
(Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact. (McGonnell
v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he
did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may
not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his
case by another means.  (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive
interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate
their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,
the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once
defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually
devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.
at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Donna Frizzell was secondarily exposed to asbestos-containing
products her husband worked with or around from Defendant.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Defendant served an interrogatory asking for
all facts supporting the contention that Donna Frizzell was exposed to asbestos
from Defendant’s products.  (Cappy Decl.,
Ex. F at p. 2.)  Plaintiffs responded
that Donna Frizzell was exposed through her husband’s employment, he brought
home asbestos on his work clothes, and Defendant may have distributed and
supplied asbestos containing parts to the husband’s jobsites.  (Id., Ex. H at pp. 1-2, 3.)  In response to a request for all documents
supporting the contention that Plaintiffs were exposed to asbestos from
Defendant’s products (id., Ex. G at p.3), Plaintiffs responded with a
long list of documents, but did not specify any document showing that Carroll
Frizzell worked with asbestos-containing products from Defendant.  (Id., Ex. I.)
Donna Frizzell is not a
witness in this case due to her illness.  (Cappy Decl., Ex. D.) 
Carroll Frizzell
testified that he bought some of Defendant’s products when he worked at Parker
Electric, but he does not recall which products.  (Cappy Decl., Ex. C at p. 415.)  He does not have any documents, receipts, or
purchase orders relating to the products he used from Defendant, and he does
not remember the name brand or manufacturer of any products he ordered from
Defendant.  (Id. at pp. 419, 420.)
 He has no information that any of the
parts he purchased from Defendant contained asbestos.  (Ibid.) 
The deposition testimony
and discovery responses do not provide evidence Donna Frizzell was secondarily
exposed to asbestos-containing products from Defendant, and thus, Defendant
shifted the burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
filed additional excerpts from Carroll Frizzell’s deposition where he testified
that in the 1970s, he purchased many different products from Defendant
including switch gears, panels, and breakers.  (Bendon Decl., Ex. A at pp. 39, 923-924.)  Defendant was one of the places from which his
employer ordered electrical equipment.  (Id.
at p. 925.)  He worked with and around
circuit breakers and panels manufactured by Square D, ITE/Bulldog, and General
Electric.  (Id. at pp. 311-312,
449-450.)  
Defendant, as a
distributor of electric related products, sold some products that may have contained
asbestos until the mid-1980s.  (Bendon
Decl., Ex. E at p. 63-64.)  During the
relevant time period, Defendant sold panel boxes, circuit boards, and breakers.
 (Id. at pp. 54-56.)  Defendant also sold panel boards manufactured
by Square D, General Electric, and ITE/Bulldog.  (Id. at pp. 59, 61; Ex. G at p. 46.)  Forty percent of the breakers Defendant sold
were made by Square D, and sixty percent were made by the other two.  (Id., Ex. G at p. 48.)  Plaintiff’s expert opined that some of Square
D’s and General Electric’s products may have contained asbestos.  (Spear Decl., ¶¶ 128, 132.)
This evidence establishes
that Defendant was one of the suppliers of electrical equipment to Carroll
Frizzell’s employer, Defendant sold some asbestos-containing parts, Carroll
Frizzell worked with switch gears, panels, and breakers from Defendant, and the
breakers he worked with that came from Defendant were manufactured by Square D,
ITE/Bulldog, or General Electric.  However,
the Spear declaration states only that the products from Square D and General
Electric MAY have contained asbestos.  Defendant’s
witness, Kenneth Netherton, testified that the switchgears and panels it sold
may have contained asbestos, and that breakers did not include asbestos.  (Netherton Depo. at pp. 22, 23-24, 25, 49-50.)
At most, Plaintiffs have
evidence that Carroll Frizzell worked with products from Defendant that may
have contained asbestos.  It is
speculative whether he worked with products from Defendant that actually
contained asbestos.  Plaintiffs have not
shown they can obtain evidence that the products from Defendant in fact exposed
Carroll Frizzell to asbestos.  Thus, they
have not shown a disputed issue for trial. 
The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
The moving party is to
give notice. 