 Case Number:  23STCV19133    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude speculative arguments about Plaintiff’s exposure.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and denied.  Plaintiffs
did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude speculation that genetics caused Plaintiff’s illness.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and denied.  Plaintiffs
did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude expert testimony about the benefits of the AMMCO brake grinder
design.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify the specific testimony
to be excluded.  It is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence about a brake show grinder design as irrelevant.  Plaintiffs do not identify any specific
exhibit or expert testimony to be excluded. 
Therefore the motion is too vague. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 5
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude any reference to any defendant being a “mom and pop”
business.  This motion is too vague.  Plaintiffs did not prove that every defendant
is a large corporation.  Indeed,
Plaintiffs only mentioned one defendant. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 6
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence that asbestos has been used for many beneficial
purposes, is a state rock, and was used during the war.  This motion is too vague.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 7
            Plaintiffs
move to preclude Hennessy from making arguments that it is not a successor in
interest to Ammco.  This is not a proper
motion in limine, and Plaintiffs filed no evidence supporting their
arguments.  If successor liability is an
issue, the parties need to meet and confer on how and when this equitable issue
will be resolved.  The motion is denied.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 8
            Plaintiffs
seek to exclude any arguments that Hennessy’s brake grinder did not contain
asbestos because a June 18, 2015 decision in another case concluded that the
brake grinders did not contain asbestos. 
In other words, Plaintiffs contend that the June 18, 2015 decision in
another case decided the issue for future cases and serves as issue preclusion
in this case.  This argument fails
because Plaintiffs did not satisfy the elements for issue preclusion.   For
example, Plaintiff did not show that the same brake grinder at issue in the
prior case is at issue in this case. 
Rather Plaintiff seems to contend that all Hennessy brake show grinders
contained asbestos, but provides no evidence of that.  Further, Plaintiffs’ quotation from the June
18, 2015 states that on the record in that prior case, someone using the
particular AMMCO machine at issue in the prior case would encounter asbestos,
not because the machine itself contained asbestos, but because almost all drum
brake linings contained asbestos. 
(Motion at pp. 3-4.)  Thus, the
June 18, 2015 decision is limited to the record of that case, and Plaintiffs
did not show that decision supports Plaintiffs’ position that Hennessy brake
grinders themselves contained asbestos.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 9
Defendant Pneumo Abex
moves to exclude references to the Pneumo Abex Asbestos Claims Settlement Trust
as not relevant and prejudicial because that entity is not a party in this
case.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO,
a motion to exclude evidence of the bankruptcy of an alleged tortfeasor not
present at trial is deemed made and granted. 
Plaintiff did not show good cause to depart from this order.  Therefore the motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 10
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude arguments that there is background asbestos in the air.  An expert may be able to establish a
foundation for the existence and relevance of background asbestos.  Also, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO,
motions to exclude evidence as speculative or unsubstantiated are deemed made
and denied.  Plaintiffs did not show good
cause to depart from that order.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 11
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence of complaints about Plaintiff to the Contractors State
License Board concerning construction work he did involving a driveway and a
home remodel.  Defendants argue that the
evidence shows Plaintiff “has a pattern and practice of questionable business
dealings.”  That is improper character
evidence.  Defendants argue the complaints
are related to product identification. 
That makes no sense.  There is no
evidence that the work on the driveway or home remodel involved asbestos
products.
            Litigating
the two complaints to the Contractors State License Board will be confusing and
consume an undue amount of time in a trial that is already too long, and the
complaints have little, if any, probative value.  The motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 12
            Plaintiffs
moves o exclude bad acts by Plaintiffs’ accountant unrelated to Plaintiffs,
specifically that the accountant cheated a lot of people.  Plaintiffs argue this evidence is irrelevant
because the conduct did not involve Plaintiffs. 
Defendants argue the accountant is a liar and a cheat, and that
Plaintiffs did business with him even though they knew he was a liar and cheat.  Defendants seem to argue that because
Plaintiffs continued to do business with the accountant, that Plaintiffs must
also be untrustworthy.  That is improper
character evidence.  Defendants cite no
law that one person’s dishonesty can be used as character evidence against
another person.
            Defendants
also argue that the accountant’s bad acts regarding third parties mean that his
accounting for Plaintiffs cannot be trusted. 
Again, there is no legal basis to say that because a person cheated one person,
that is evidence that he cheated a different person.  This is improper character evidence.
            Delving
into the accountant’s bad acts will consume an undue amount of time and be
confusing to the jury, and had little probative value.  The motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 13
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude reference to unspecified lawsuits Plaintiffs have been involved
in.  This motion is too vague, and the
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude references to a breach of contract lawsuit Plaintiffs filed in Los
Angeles.  Defendants argue evidence of
the lawsuit is relevant to impeachment because the lawsuit shows Plaintiffs
lied during the course of doing business. 
Defendant does not present any evidence of that.  In any event, re-litigating some prior breach
of contract case to show that Plaintiffs lied in that prior case is confusing
and will take too much time, and is improper character evidence.
            Defendants
also argue the breach of contract case shows Plaintiff’s knowledge about the
dangers of asbestos.  Defendants did not
show that the breach of contract case had anything to do with asbestos.  The motion regarding the breach of contract
lawsuit is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 1
Defendant Mission Stucco
moves to exclude evidence of foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile
asbestos.  Plaintiffs did not show
evidence that any defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos
or the reasons why the foreign governments banned it.  Allowing that evidence will consume an undue
amount of trial time exploring the bases for and legislative history of the
foreign bans.  The evidence would have
little probative value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the
United States and would be confusing to the jury.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 1
Defendants seek to
preclude a 1986 EPA document entitled “Guidance for Preventing Asbestos Disease
Among Auto Mechanics” as irrelevant, hearsay, unscientific, and unduly
prejudicial.  If Defendants contend they
did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1986, the document could be
relevant to Defendants’ notice of the dangers of asbestos, a non-hearsay
use.  Also, the contents of the document
may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes it is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  That the document was based on
unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the
weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the
type of information relied upon by experts. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 2
Defendants move to
exclude evidence relating to the Friction Materials Standard Institute as
unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay. 
The motion does not identify the specific documents or even state
whether the documents appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  This motion is too vague.  The court cannot predict whether Plaintiffs
will be able to authenticate and establish the admissibility of unidentified
documents at trial.  Defendants should
object if and when Plaintiff seeks to use specific FMSI documents at
trial.  For example, an expert might rely
on a FMSI document, and such a document might be admissible if the expert
establishes that it is the type of document relied upon as accurate by experts
in the field.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendant’s MIL No. 2
Defendant Mission Stucco moves
to exclude moves to exclude evidence of a position statement from the Joint
Policy Committee of the Societies of Epidemiology published on July 24, 2012 as
hearsay, irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative.  The document was prepared by a body
established “to coordinate and unify joint policy actions globally,” and the
document itself states it is a call for political action against asbestos
rather than an unbiased scientific document. 
Explaining the origins and development of the document would consume an
undue amount of time and confuse the jury. 
Therefore, the motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 3
Defendants move to
exclude evidence of workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or
asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims
may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose. 
However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,
time-consuming, and confusing to the jury. 
It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part subject to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 4
Defendants seek to
exclude testimony and videos about William Longo and Richard Hatfield’s work
simulations because the simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s
exposure.  Defendants argue the
simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods
such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury
because the conditions are so different. 
Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the
admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel
v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)  At trial, Defendants can cross-examine the
experts about the similarities and differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a
small, sealed chamber and argue the jury should give the videos no weight
because of the different conditions.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 5
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 6
Defendant Morse Tec moves
to exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  This
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of
evidence.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 6
            See No.
6 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 7
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 8
Defendant Pneumo Abex LLC
seeks to exclude evidence from the Saranac experiments.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs
did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 9
            Defendant
Westside Building Material Corporation moves to exclude evidence about any of
its locations other than Chatsworth because Plaintiff only purchased products
from the Chatsworth location.  This
motion is too vague.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 10
            Defendant
Westside Building Material moves to exclude any evidence about Quik-Set,
Hamilton, Supro, Kaiser Gypsum, Synko, Riverside, La Habra, and Mission because
there is no evidence Defendant supplied those products.  This motion is too vague and broad.  There may be evidence that other defendants
supplied products from those companies. 
In any event, a motion to exclude unsubstantiated evidence is deemed
made and denied pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 11
Defendant Amcord, Inc.
moves to exclude a March 12, 1974 memorandum about blue asbestos in gun plastic
as irrelevant, prejudicial, and misleading. 
Defendant contends the reference to “blue asbestos” in the memo is to a
brand name, not to a specific type of asbestos. 
If the memo is otherwise admissible (e.g., it is authenticated), then
Defendant can have a witness explain that “blue asbestos” is a brand name and
can cross-examine any witness who contends that “blue asbestos” refers to
something other than a brand name.  The
jury will be able to understand the difference between a brand name and a
specific type of asbestos, and the jury can decide who is correct.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 12
Amcord moves to exclude
evidence of working conditions at Amcord’s facility as irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial because Plaintiff was never employed at the facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 13
Amcord moves to exclude
any evidence of lobbying activities.  The
motion is too vague and does not identify any specific evidence to be
excluded.  Defendant refers generally to
deposition transcripts from prior cases. 
Objections to deposition transcripts from prior cases and designations
of former testimony are to be handled via the process set out in the July 8,
2022 CMO.  Therefore, the motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 14
Defendant Amcord, Inc.
moves to exclude photographs from a deposition as unauthenticated, irrelevant,
and hearsay.  If Plaintiffs attempt to
use the photographs at trial without first authenticating them, Defendants should
object at that time.  Photographs are not
statements made by a person; they are made by a camera.  One of the photos shows bags with a label
that seems to say “Riverside Gun Plastic.” 
Whether that photograph contains hearsay depends on how Plaintiffs plan
to use the photograph at trial.  For
example, if Plaintiffs use the photograph to show that the particular bags
depicted in the photo actually contained Riverside Gun Plastic, the hearsay
objection may be meritorious.  But there
could be non-hearsay uses of that photograph. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 15
            Defendant
Black & Decker moves to exclude any reference to its product as containing
asbestos because there is no evidence it contained asbestos.  This is an improper motion for summary
judgment.  The motion is denied.
Defendant’s MIL No. 16
Defendant Black &
Decker moves to exclude all reference to other lawsuits involving it and its
related entities.  This motion is too
vague.  For example, it is common in
asbestos cases to use deposition testimony from prior cases.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed made and granted pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 17
Defendant Union Carbide
moves to exclude evidence of its corporate structure and relationship with Dow
Chemical.  This motion is too vague.  If at trial Plaintiff asks questions about
these topics that are irrelevant, Defendant can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 18
Union Carbide moves to
exclude any reference to incidents where people died or were injured as a
result of Union Carbide’s chemicals other than asbestos.  Incidents not involving asbestos are
irrelevant, more prejudicial than probative, and would be unduly time
consuming.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 19
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 20
Defendant Autozone West
moves to exclude the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence referring to the
video as hearsay, unscientific, and prejudicial.  The video may be admissible at trial via an
expert if the expert establishes that it is general background information of
the type relied upon by experts in the field. 
The claim that the video is unscientific can be the subject of
cross-examination and goes to the weight to be given the video.  Defendant contends the EPA updated its
guidance in 2007 so the video is outdated. 
That too can be the subject of cross-examination.
Defendant argues the
video’s references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant
because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  If Plaintiff establishes that the video is
admissible, the portion of the video about the magazine article and wives and
children are to be redacted.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 21
Defendant Chattem, Inc.
moves to exclude evidence and argument that it is liable for injury before it
purchased Gold Bond in 1996 because the April 10, 1996 Asset Purchase Agreement
states Chattem has liability only for claims “which arise from use of the
Products and which occur on or after the Closing Date, regardless of when such
Liability Claim is brought.”  (Asset
Purchase Agreement, § 9.2.)  Defendant
did not file a copy of that agreement. 
Because Defendant failed to file the agreement, the court cannot
determine what liabilities were assumed or not assumed under the
agreement.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 22
Defendant Chattem, Inc.
seeks to prevent Plaintiffs’ experts from telling the jury the titles of
articles and books because the titles are hearsay, biased, and
inflammatory.  The motion does not
identify any particular title.  It is too
vague.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 23
Defendant Chattem, Inc.
moves to exclude certain statements during voir dire.  This is an improper motion in limine.  Motions in limine are to exclude evidence,
and statements during voir dire are not evidence.  Issues about the conduct of the trial,
including the conduct of voir dire, are more properly raised with the trial
judge.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to raising questions about the conduct of trial with the trial judge.
Defendant’s MIL No. 23
            Defendant
Sherwin-Williams moves to exclude any evidence that it used raw asbestos
because this case is about talc, not raw asbestos.  This motion is too vague.  For example, if Defendant claims it had no
knowledge of the dangers of asbestos, its use of raw asbestos may be
relevant.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            Defendant
also moves to exclude all evidence of asbestos-related workers compensation
claims.  See No. 3 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 24
Sherwin-Williams moves to
exclude references to products not at issue. 
The motion is too vague as to the products Defendant contends are not at
issue and the specific evidence to be excluded. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 25
Defendant The
Sherwin-Williams Company seeks to exclude arguments that any of its paint
contained asbestos because Plaintiffs have no evidence of that.  This is an improper motion for summary
judgment.  The motion is denied.
Defendant’s MIL No. 26
            Sherwin-Williams
moves to exclude all of its documents mentioning “fibrous,” “fibers,”
“Asbestiform,” and “asbestos.”  The
motion is vague and overbroad.  It does
not identify the specific documents to be excluded.  It does not state that any of the
unidentified documents actually appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  Also, some documents referring to asbestos
could be very relevant.  For example, if
Sherwin-Williams has an internal memo stating that it has determined that
products it sells contain dangerous levels of asbestos, that document would
obviously be relevant to Plaintiffs’ case. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 27
            Kaiser
Gypsum moves to exclude testimony from Crosby and Crum.  General and hearsay objections to prior
deposition are handled through the general objection process set forth in the
July 8, 2022 CMO.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to timely general objections pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO.
Defendant’s MIL No. 28
Defendant Kaiser Gypsum
moves to exclude evidence of all regulatory bans regarding asbestos-containing
products, including foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile
asbestos.  Plaintiffs did not show
evidence that any defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos
or the reasons why the foreign governments banned it.  Allowing that evidence will consume an undue
amount of trial time exploring the bases for and legislative history of the
foreign bans.  The evidence would have
little probative value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the
United States and would be confusing to the jury.
            The
motion to exclude evidence about US federal and state regulations is too
vague.  The information in existence
before the last date of alleged exposure is potentially relevant to show
Defendant’s knowledge and notice.  
            The
motion is granted as to foreign bans and otherwise denied without prejudice to
a contemporaneous objection at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 29
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 30
            J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude evidence and argument that it has liability for
any product made, sold, or distributed by John-Manville Corporation because it
is not responsible for John-Manville’s liabilities.  Plaintiffs state they will not seek to hold
J-M Manufacturing liable for any products sold before 1983.  Therefore, the parties should be able to
agree to a stipulation.  The motion is
off calendar for the parties to meet and confer on a stipulation (which they
should have done before this motion was filed.)
Defendant’s MIL Nos. 31-33
            No
motions were filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 34
            J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude reference to Johns-Manville Corporation’s and
Certainteed Corporation’s bankruptcies. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO this motion is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 35
            See
No. 3 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 36
Defendant J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude any reference about Defendant, J-M A/C Pipe
Corporation and/or Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A. being successor
corporations or alter egos or having successor liability because Plaintiffs
cannot prove such successor liability. 
If successor liability is an issue and needs to be tried, it is a matter
for the trial court, not the jury.  The
parties are to raise the matter of how successor liability is to be tried with
the trial judge.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 37
            See
No. 4 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 37
            See
No. 3 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 38
Defendant Hennessy
Industries, LLC move to exclude evidence that its predecessor sold brake
grinding machines that had warning labels on them outside the United States in
the 1990s.  Defendant states these sales
occurred after Plaintiff’s exposure. 
However, post-exposure warnings can be admissible to prove a product
defect in a strict liability action.  The
evidence could be relevant to prove a product defect, even if the warnings
existed after the last exposure date.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 38
Defendant J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude any reference about Defendant, J-M A/C Pipe
Corporation and/or Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A. being successor
corporations or alter egos or having successor liability because Plaintiffs
cannot prove such successor liability. 
If successor liability is an issue and needs to be tried, it is a matter
for the trial court, not the jury.  The
parties are to raise the matter of how successor liability is to be tried with
the trial judge.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 39
Hennessy moves to exclude
a 1978 insurance industry survey because an insurance company did the survey
and it is prejudicial and cumulative.  If
the survey states that Hennessy is an insured, such references are to be
redacted.  The survey may be relevant to
notice and knowledge.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial and subject to the redaction of
references to Hennesy being insured.
Defendant’s MIL No. 40
Hennessy moves to exclude
a 1986 study about asbestos generated from use of Defendant’s products because
an insurance company did the study and evidence of defendant’s liability
insurance is not admissible, and the report was after the exposure date.  If the study states that Hennessy is an
insured, such references are to be redacted. 
The study may be relevant to notice and knowledge and failure to recall
a defective product, even if it was issued after the last date of exposure.   The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial and subject to the
redaction of references to Hennesy being insured.
Defendant’s MIL No. 41
            Defendant
Federal-Mogul Asbestos Personal Injury Trust moves to preclude Plaintiffs’
punitive damages claims, and causes of action for conspiracy and intentional
torts.  This is an improper motion for
summary adjudication.  The motion is
denied.
Defendant’s MIL No. 42
Defendant Federal-Mogul
Asbestos Personal Injury Trust seeks to preclude the mention of its name
because it exists solely to litigate asbestos cases concerning Fel-Pro
products, and the name is prejudicial.  The
name suggests the existence of other lawsuits and that Federal-Mogul Asbestos
Personal Injury Trust has been sued many times. 
Plaintiffs did not show that the use of the name is necessary or
probative.  Given the prejudice involved
in the name, using the name “Federal-Mogul Asbestos Personal Injury Trust”
during trial will be more prejudicial than probative.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 43
Honeywell moves to
exclude a letter and a memo from E.A. Martin because the documents cannot be
authenticated, are hearsay, are not relevant, and are more prejudicial than
probative.  Defendant states the
documents are unsigned and there is no evidence about who wrote or received
them.  The court cannot determine at this
point that no witness will be able to authenticate the documents.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce
unauthenticated documents at trial, Defendant should object then.
The documents could be
relevant to notice or knowledge of the dangers of asbestos.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the documents to
show notice, the documents may not be hearsay if they are not offered for the
truth of the matter asserted (assuming they can be authenticated). 
The last paragraph of the
letter is more prejudicial than probative. 
If Plaintiffs authenticate the letter and establish its relevance and
non-hearsay use at trial, the last paragraph of the letter is to be redacted
before the letter is admitted.  Plaintiffs
did not establish the author of the letter was a managing agent or authorized
to speak for the company.  
The motion is granted in
part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 44
No motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 45
Defendant Chattem, Inc.
moves to exclude evidence that in 2020 it started using cornstarch instead of
talc in Gold Bond as irrelevant and prejudicial.  Plaintiffs did not file an opposition and did
not show that the switch is relevant. 
The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 46
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 47
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 48
Defendant W.W. Henry
Company moves to exclude evidence of a position statement from the Joint Policy
Committee of the Societies of Epidemiology published on July 24, 2012 as
hearsay, irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative.  The document was prepared by a body
established “to coordinate and unify joint policy actions globally,” and the
document itself states it is a call for political action against asbestos
rather than an unbiased scientific document. 
Explaining the origins and development of the document would consume an
undue amount of time and confuse the jury. 
Therefore, the motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL No. 49
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 50
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 51
Defendants move to
exclude the use of the term “victim” contending the use of the term is more
prejudicial than probative.  Plaintiffs
do not identify any need to use the term “victim.”  The use of “victim” suggests someone at fault
for harming the victim.  Thus, while the
prejudice might not be great, the relevance is negligible.  The motion is granted.
Defendant’s MIL Nos. 52-54
            No
motions were filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 55
            See
No. 4 above.
Defendant’s MIL No. 56
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 57
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 58
W.W. Henry Company moves
to exclude an article by Laura S. Welch. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and granted
as to Welch’s amicus brief but not her article. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from that order.  Therefore, the motion is denied as to the
article without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 59
            Defendant
Block Drug Company moves to exclude testimony that it is responsible for
liability during the time it did not own Gold Bond.  This is an argument that Defendant does not
have successor liability for the time period before it owned the product.  The court cannot decide successor liability
on a motion in limine.  Defendant also
contends that it has no liability for the time period after it sold the
product.  This too is an issue of
successor liability.  The parties need to
meet and confer on how and when this equitable issue will be resolved.  The motion is denied.
Defendant’s MIL No. 60
            No
motion was filed.
Defendant’s MIL No. 61
            Defendant
Baltimore Aircoil Company moves to exclude speculative testimony about asbestos
content in BAC cooling towers.  This
motion is deemed made and denied pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 62
            Defendant
Baltimore Aircoil Company moves to exclude evidence not produced during
discovery.  This motion is too
vague.  Further it is deemed made and
denied pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 62
            Defendants
move to exclude evidence of Japanese workers compensation claims.  See No. 3 above.
            Defendants
move to exclude evidence of settlements. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and
granted.  Plaintiffs did not show good
cause to depart from the order.  The
motion is granted.
            Defendants
move to exclude references to Kubota Shock. 
Defendants do not explain what this means.  The motion is too vague.  It is denied without prejudice to objections
at trial.
            Defendants
move to exclude all documents about asbestos fiber concentrations and the risks
of mesothelioma in an area around an asbestos cement plant in Japan.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify the specific documents
to be excluded.   Further, the evidence
could be relevant to notice.  The motion
is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 63
            Defendants
move to exclude speculative testimony about Plaintiff’s economic losses.  This motion is deemed made and denied
pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO. 
Defendants did not show good cause to depart from that order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 64
            Defendant
Baltimore Aircoil Company moves to exclude reference to BAC-Pritchard or any
claim that Defendant is the successor in interest to BAC-Pritchard.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant is the
successor in interest to BAC-Pritchard and has the burden of proving that.  The court cannot determine on a motion in
limine that Plaintiffs will not be able to prove their successor in interest
claim.  That is an improper motion for
summary judgment.  The motion is
denied.  The parties are to meet and
confer about how and when the success in interest claim is to be resolved.
Defendant’s MIL No. 65
Defendants move to
exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos and every exposure
contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and contrary to the
law.  This motion is too vague as Defendants
do not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.    
In addition, the motion
would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what
“substantial factor” means.  Under the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial
factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.  Defendant did not show good cause
to depart from this order.
Defendant also argues
OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This
motion is too vague as Defendant did not identify any specific report to be
excluded.  If Plaintiffs ask to admit the
reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendant can object at
that time.  However, an expert may rely
on the reports even if they are hearsay. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 66
            Defendant
Mannington Mills moves to exclude all references to documents authored by
Tarkett Inc. and any documents from Defendant in response to a document from
Tarkett.  This is too vague.
            Defendant
mentions two specific documents – a June 21, 1982 letter and a June 30, 1982
letter.  Defendant states these documents
are hearsay, irrelevant and confusing. 
If Plaintiffs are able to authenticate the two letters, they could be
used for a non-hearsay purpose, such as notice of the dangers and hazards of
asbestos (which is discussed in the letters). 
The court cannot predict whether Plaintiffs will be able to authenticate
the letters.  The letters are not
irrelevant or confusing.  If Plaintiffs attempt
to admit the letters without first authenticating them and establishing a
non-hearsay purpose or hearsay exception, Defendants should object then.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s MIL No. 67
            Defendant
Mannington Mills moves to exclude speculative testimony about removing flooring
materials.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO, this motion is deemed made and denied pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.   