 Case Number:  23STCV27566    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 



 
MARIO
  SOBALVARRO,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
SEIZMIC
  INC., et al., 
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV27566
DEPARTMENT 45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed:  11/09/23
Trial Date: 
  12/08/25



 
Hearing date:               November 19, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendants
Seizmic Inc., Jeremy McGookin, and Danny Medina
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff Mario Sobalvarro
 
Demurrer
with Motion to Strike 
The
Court considered the moving and opposition papers. No reply was filed. 
            The Court rules as follows: 
(1)  
Defendants Seizmic Inc., Jeremy McGookin,
and Danny Medina’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on January 3, 2024
is OVERRULED. 
(2)  
Defendants’ Motion to Strike portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on January 3, 2024 is DENIED. 
 
Background
            This is an employment dispute action. On November 9,
2023, plaintiff Mario Sobalvarro (“Plaintiff”) filed his complaint against
defendants Seizmic Inc., Jeremy McGookin, and Danny Medina (collectively
“Defendants”), asserting eight causes of action: (1) disability discrimination
in violation of FEHA; (2) failure to provide reasonable accommodation in
violation of FEHA; (3) failure to engage in the interactive process in
violation of FEHA; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) failure to prevent
discrimination and/or retaliation in violation of FEHA; (6) whistleblower
retaliation (Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5); (7) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            According to the complaint, Plaintiff has
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, anxiety, and depression.  Plaintiff worked for Seizmic, Inc., as a
Computer Aided Design and Drafting Operator from July 2021 to July 2022.  McGookin and Medina were supervisors, agents,
and or employees of Seizmic. Around March 2022, Defendants moved Plaintiff’s desk
to a cubicle next to McGookin’s and Medina’s offices, but Plaintiff had
difficulty concentrating at his new workstation due to his disability.  Plaintiff requested that Defendants move him
back to his original workstation, and Defendants complied with the request for
a period of 30 days.  However, after the
30 day period, Defendants concluded Plaintiff did not deserve accommodation for
his disability and retracted the accommodation.  Plaintiff requested continued accommodation
for his disabilities to no avail and was eventually terminated from his job in
July 2022. 
            On January 3, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer
with Motion to Strike, to which Plaintiff opposed on November 4, 2024.  There is no reply as of November 14, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone
and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902,
905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) 
The ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) 
 
Discussion
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive
Process on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute this cause of action.  Defendants
also demur to the eighth cause of action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress on the grounds that the Complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute this cause of action. 
 
A.    
Meet and Confer 
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet
and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)
The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement is satisfied based on the
following.  On December 21, 2023,
Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter
detailing the basis for this Demurrer and inviting Plaintiff’s counsel to
discuss these issues further via telephone.  (Declaration of Abraham L. Niman (“Niman
Decl.”) ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
thereafter emailed a detailed response, and counsel for both parties discussed
these issues via phone call on December 28, 2023, but did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer.  (Niman Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
B.    
Third Cause of Action for Failure to Engage
in the Interactive Process
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for failure
to engage in the interactive process on the ground that the Complaint fails to
show that Defendants failed to participate in a timely good-faith interactive
process with Plaintiff to determine whether reasonable accommodation could be
made. This is the sixth element listed below. 
In order to allege a cause of action for failure to
engage in interactive process, a plaintiff must allege the following facts: (1)
plaintiff was an employee of defendant, (2) plaintiff had a disability known by
defendant, (3) plaintiff requested that defendant make a reasonable
accommodation for his or her disability so that he or she may be able to
perform the essential job requirements, (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in an interactive process to determine whether a reasonable
accommodation could be made so that he or she would be able to perform the
essential job requirements, and (6) defendant failed to participate in a timely
food-faith interactive process with plaintiff to determine whether a reasonable
accommodation could be made.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); CACI No.
2546 [Disability Discrimination—Reasonable Accommodation—Failure to Engage in
Interactive Process].) “Two principles underlie a cause of action for failure
to provide a reasonable accommodation.  First, the employee must request
an accommodation.  Second, the parties must engage in an interactive
process regarding the requested accommodation and, if the process fails,
responsibility for the failure rests with the party who failed to participate
in good faith.”  (Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140
Cal.App.4thh 34, 54.) 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently pled, for
purposes of surviving demurrer, that Defendants failed to engage in a timely,
good faith interactive process following Plaintiff’s request for an
accommodation.  Plaintiff alleges that he
contested Seizmic’s determination (that he did not deserve accommodation after
the 30-day period) and reiterated that he needed continued accommodation for
his disabilities, but Seizmic ignored him.  (Complaint, ¶ 13.)  On
or around June 8, 2022, just a few days after Plaintiff requested continued
accommodation for his disabilities, Seizmic issued Plaintiff an unwarranted
written warning for purported unexcused absences. Seizmic informed Plaintiff
that, on July 11, 2022, Seizmic would assess and discuss improvement in his punctuality
or lack thereof.  (Id. at ¶ 15.)  On
or around June 13, 2022, Plaintiff again requested accommodation, including
that he be able to return to a non-distractive workspace, but Defendants denied
his request.  (Id. at ¶ 16.)  It follows, Plaintiff has
sufficiently pled that Defendants failed to engage in an interactive process
following his multiple requests for an accommodation.  Further, notwithstanding the one attempt by
Defendants to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability, Defendants ignored
Plaintiff’s contest of Defendant’s determination as well as Plaintiff’s reiteration
that he need continued accommodation for his disabilities. 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is overruled. 
 
C.    
Eighth Cause of Action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendants
demur to the eighth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress on the ground that Plaintiff has not alleged any “outrageous” conduct.

In order to properly allege a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must allege the
following elements: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress.”  (Crouch v. Trinity Christian
Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.)  “Conduct,
to be ‘ “outrageous,” ’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in civilized society.”  (Trerice v. Blue Cross
California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)  “Liability for
intentional infliction of emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere
insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.” ’ ”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1051.)  “In order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with
‘great[ ] specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Vasquez,
supra, 222 Cal.App.4th at p. 832.) 
Here, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to support his claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts
to demonstrate that Defendants’ conduct may have rose to the levels of “extreme
and outrageous.” Plaintiff alleges, in particular, that McGookin
created a toxic work environment that exacerbated Plaintiff’s disability by
issuing Plaintiff frivolous and unwarranted written warnings, and thereby
created a false record of transgressions that besmirched Plaintiff’s reputation
and threatened his job security.  (Complaint, ¶ 99.)  McGookin also threatened Plaintiff that he
would lose his job if he continued to complain.  (Id.) 
As to Medina, it is alleged that he sanctioned the repeated discipline
of Plaintiff to berate him into silence.  (Id. at ¶ 101.)  Pursuant to circumstances alleged by
Plaintiff, including the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently
pled a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Further, when reasonable persons may differ, it is for the
jury, subject to the control of the court, to determine whether, in the
particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to
result in liability.¿ (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d
493, 499.) 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole or
any part thereof – i.e., even single words or phrases. (Code Civ. Proc. §
435(b)(1)); Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. (1971) 19
Cal App.3d 24, 40.)  A motion to strike
lies either: (1) to strike any “irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted
in any pleading”; and/or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436; Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
509, 528.)  As with demurrers, the
grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading, or from
any matter which the court may judicially notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
Defendants
move strike paragraphs 20-22, 37, 48, 58, 68, 77, 89, 95, and 106 and page 20,
line 5 of the Complaint, arguing that (1) Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages because the challenged
paragraphs are boilerplate and conclusory; and (2) Plaintiff fails to properly
request punitive damages against a corporate employer because the Complaint
does not allege that an officer, director, or managing agent ratified any
despicable conduct, as required by Civil Code section 3294.  However, upon review of the challenged paragraphs
in context with the other facts alleged in the Complaint, the Court finds that
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages.  Additionally, the Complaint does not merely
allege that McGookin and Medina are Plaintiff’s supervisors as the Complaint also
alleges that McGookin and Medina are “supervisor[s], agent[s], and/or
employee[s] of Defendant.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 4) 
The Complaint then goes on to allege that: 
Plaintiff
is informed and believes and thereon alleges that each and all of the acts and
omissions alleged herein were performed by, and/or are attributable to, all
Defendants, each acting as agents and/or employees, and/or under the direction
and control of each of the other Defendants, and that said acts and failures to
act were within the course and scope of said agency, employment and/or
direction and control. Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges
that at all times material hereto Defendants were and are the agents of each
other. 
(Id. at ¶ 7.) The
foregoing allegations are sufficient facts to support Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages against a corporate employer. 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion 
            Defendants Seizmic Inc., Jeremy McGookin, and Danny
Medina’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs Complaint filed on January 3, 2024 is
OVERRULED. 
            Defendants’ Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint filed on January 3, 2024 is DENIED. 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated:
November 19, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 