 Case Number:  22STCV36814    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 



 
CARIN
  MEYER,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
LARRY
  BENSON CONSTRUCION, INC., et al., 
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  22STCV36814
DEPARTMENT 45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed:  11/21/22
Trial Date: 
  04/14/2025



 
Hearing date:               November 19, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Evaristo Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal
Responding
Party:       None
 
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The
Court considered the moving papers.
            The Court GRANTS Defendant/Cross-Defendant’s Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement as to the settlement between Plaintiff
and Defendant/Cross-Defendant. 
 
Background
            This is a construction defect action arising from a home
improvement contract entered in April 2020. On November 21, 2022, plaintiff
Carin Meyer (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against defendants Larry Benson
Construction, Inc., Larry Benson, Sawdust Custom Cabinets, Inc., McCleery
Company dba The Door Outlet, Evaristo Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal Design
Works, North River Insurance Company, and Does 1 through 50, asserting (1)
breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3) breach of warranty; (4) violation of B&P
Code section 7031; and (5) recovery on license bond. 
            On February 28, 2023, defendants/cross-complainants Larry
Benson Construction, Inc. and Larry Benson filed their cross-complaint against
Moes 1 through 25, asserting (1) negligence; (2) equitable indemnity; (3)
contribution; and (4) declaratory relief.
            On May 26, 2023, dismissal was entered as to defendant
North River Insurance Company.
            On August 7, 2023, defendant/cross-complainant Sawdust
Custom Cabinets, Inc. filed its cross-complaint against Zoes 1 through 10,
asserting (1) equitable indemnity and contribution; (2) implied indemnity; and
(3) declaratory relief.
            On February 1, 2024, cross-defendant/cross-complainant Fleetwood
Aluminum Products, Inc. filed its cross-complaint against Zoes 1 through 25,
asserting (1) equitable indemnity; (2) implied indemnity and contribution; and
(3) negligence.  
            On February 14, 2024, cross-defendant/cross-complainant Sun
Valley Skylights, Inc. filed its cross-complaint against cross-defendants,
asserting (1) equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; and (3) declaratory
relief. 
            On March 4, 2024, defendant/cross-complainants Varo Sheet
Metal Design (Moe 2) and Evaristo Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal Design (Moe 3)
filed its cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10, asserting (1) implied and
equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; and (3) declaratory relief. 
            On July 16, 2024, the complaint was dismissed as to all
parties, except Doe 11, Kenneth James Henson dba Conejo Oaks Roofing. 
            On August 8, 2024, the cross-complaint filed by Larry
Benson Construction and Larry Benson on February 28, 2023 was dismissed as to
Sawdust Custom Cabinets, Inc, Fleetwood Products, Inc., McCleery Company, Inc.
dba The Door Outlet, Evaristo Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal Design, and Varo
Sheet Metal Design. 
            On August 30, 2024, the cross-complaint filed by Evaristo
Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal on March 4, 2024 was dismissed. 
            On September 25, 2024, the cross-complaint filed by Larry
Benson Construction and Larry Benson on February 28, 2023 was dismissed as to
Conejo Oaks Roofing and Kenneth James Henson. 
            On October 16, 2024, the complaint was dismissed as to
Doe 11 Kenneth James Henson dba Conejo Oaks Roofing. 
            On October 18, 2024, defendant/cross-defendant Evaristo
Cardenas dba Varo Sheet Metal (“Varo Sheet Metal”) filed the instant motion for
determination of good faith settlement. No opposition was filed.
 
Legal
Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, a court may approve a
settlement by determining it was made in good faith, and such a determination
shall bar any other joint tortfeasor from further claims against the settling
tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “A determination by the
court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling
tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) The burden is on the party asserting the
lack of good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, the California Supreme Court set forth factors to
consider when determining whether a settlement was made in good faith: (1) a
rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.
The trial court enjoys broad discretion in determining whether a
settlement was entered in good faith and in allocating potential liability and
exposure among joint tortfeasors. (Norco Delivery Services v. Owens Corning
Fiberglas (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 955, 962.) A reviewing court will “assess
whether the good faith determination is buttressed by any substantial
evidence.” (Ibid.)
In City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, the court of appeal upheld the trial court’s determination
that an uncontested motion for good faith settlement was entered in good faith
when the moving papers had not provided information concerning all of the Tech-Bilt
factors, but only stated the amount of the settlement and the policy limits.
The court first noted that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 had not been
amended to add procedural requirements since the decision in Tech-Bilt,
and approved the following procedure:
“This court notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith
determination presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming
majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court. At the time of
filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.
If each motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting
forth a complete factual response to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients' resources. It must also be
remembered that Tech-Bilt was decided on a contested basis. We are unaware of
any reported decision which has reversed an uncontested good faith
determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when the good faith
nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to
consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one
objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.”
(City of Grand Terrace, 192 Cal.App.3d at p.1261 (emphasis
added).)
Once evidence of the good faith of a settlement has been
presented, the burden remains on any challenging party to establish a lack of
good faith. (Ibid; Code Civ. Pro., § 877.6 subd., (d).)
 
Discussion
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Varo Sheet Metal’s Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement is granted. Varo Sheet Metal seeks a
determination that its settlement with Plaintiff is in good faith, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure §§ 877 and 877.6, et seq., and in satisfaction of factors
set forth in Tech-Bilt. Varo
Sheet Metal also seeks a dismissal of any an all claims for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault against it, and a bar of any and
all claims made by other joint tortfeasors or co-obligors for equitable
indemnity and or contribution. 
Varo Sheet Metal’s Motion sets for the ground
of good faith, and it is accompanied by the Declaration of Steven A. Sobel,
which sets forth a brief background of the case. (Declaration of Steven A.
Sobel (“Sobel Decl.”).) According to the declaration, this
construction defect case arises from a home improvement construction project at
the single-family home located at 24702 Cordillera Drive, Calabasas, CA. (Sobel Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff entered into an April
15, 2020, contract with Benson Construction, Inc., who served as General Contractor
and hired Varo Sheet Metal to perform sheet metal installation, including sheet
metal around beams and a skylight.
(Ibid.) With the help of mediator Hon. Richard A. Stone, Varo Sheet
Metal and Plaintiff reached a settlement agreement where Varo Sheet Metal agrees
to pay Plaintiff $50,000 in exchange for a release of all claims and a
dismissal with prejudice from Plaintiff’s complaint. (Sobel Decl. ¶ 2.) The
settlement between Varo Sheet Metal and Plaintiff was not obtained through
collusion, concealment, or for the purpose of injuring any of the other parties
or potential parties to this action. (Sobel Decl. ¶ 3.) Varo
Sheet Metal served the Motion and accompanying declaration to Plaintiff,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Larry Benson and Larry Benson Construction, Inc.,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant Sawdust Custom Cabinets, Inc., Defendant McCleery
Company, Inc., dba The Door Outlet, Defendant/Cross-Defendant Fleetwood
Aluminum Products, Inc., and Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Sun Valley
Skylights, Inc. No non-settling party has served or filed a motion to contest Varo
Sheet Metal’s Motion. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant/Cross-Defendant Evaristo Cardenas dba Varo Sheet
Metal unopposed Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement filed on
October 18, 2024. 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated:
November 19, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 