 Case Number:  22STCV28248    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  73 5/17/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
LETESHIA DRISDOM, et al. v. JOSE MORENO III, et
al. (22STCV28248) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Haig B. Kazandjian (Haig B. Kazandjian Lawyers,
APC)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Barry Reagan (Slaughter, Reagan & Cole, LLP) Michael Halvorsen
(Phillips, Spallas and Angstadt LLP) 
 
PETITION TO CONFIRM MINOR’S COMPROMISE (filed 3/28/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Petition to Confirm
Minor’s Compromise
is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August
30, 2022, Plaintiffs Leteshia Drisdom and Marshawn Hemmans, a minor by and
through his guardian Leteshia Drisdom, filed this action against Defendants Jose
Moreno III; 802 Anderson Road LLC; West 54th Street LLC; Jose
Moreno, as Trustee under the Moreno Family Trust dated November 3, 2016; and Martha
C. Moreno, as Trustee under the Moreno Family Trust dated November 3, 2016.
 
Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint on March 7, 2023, alleging causes of action for
(1) Private Nuisance; (2) Negligence; (3) Breach of Warranty of Habitability;
(4) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (5) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (6) Violation of CA Civil Code Section
1942.4 Wrongful Rent Collection; and (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  
  
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiffs seek monetary damages against Defendants for the
improper and negligent maintenance of Plaintiffs’ leased premises, commonly
referred to as 2315 W 54th St. Unit #4, Los Angeles, CA 90043. (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs
allege uninhabitable conditions of the rental property and claim slum housing
conditions including: defective air conditioning, lack of water, lack of water
pressure, lack of hot water, deteriorating and/or cracked ceilings, plumbing
issues, defective ventilation, unsanitary refuse areas/bins, and damaged,
cracked, and deteriorated common area walls/ceiling. (FAC, ¶ 2.)
 
The parties reached a settlement agreement in
this case. (See Court’s 3/27/24 Minute Order.)
 
On March 28,
2024, Parent and Guardian Ad Litem Letishia Drisdom
(“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending
Action (the “Petition”) on behalf of Claimant Marshawn Hemmans (Claimant”) 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
“When
a minor, a person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or a person for
whom a conservator has been appointed is a party, that person shall appear
either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or by a guardian ad litem
appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding is pending, or by a
judge thereof, in each case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
The
Court has reviewed the ¿Petition
to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim of a Minor. Defendants have offered to
settle this matter in the total amount of $75,000. The Court has considered the
Declaration of Petitioner Letishia Drisdom and the Declaration of Haig
Kazandjian, Plaintiffs’ counsel, in support
of the fee request. Of the total settlement payment of $75,000, the total
settlement amount for Claimant/ Marshawn Hemmans is $5,000. Kazandjian states
“the apportionment of the settlement payments between the Claimant and the
other named Plaintiff is based on the damages claimed by each Plaintiff. The
adult Plaintiff Leteshia Drisdom has claims for rent abatement that arose from
the tenancy at the subject property as detailed in the complaint. The rent
abatement claims make up a majority of the claimed damages.” (Kazandjian Decl.,
¶ 6.)
The petition states that Claimant suffered emotional distress damages and loss
of value of their leasehold. (Petition, ¶ 6.) Attorney fees for Claimant/Marshawn
Hemmans is based on the contingency fee agreement of 25%. (Kazandjian Decl., ¶ 9.)
Thus, the total settlement balance, after attorney fees are deducted, for
Claimant/Minor Marshawn Hemmans is $3,750.00. The Court finds that on the current record, and in
consideration of the factors set forth in Cal Rules of Court, Rule 7.955(b), a
fee of 25% of the gross settlement is reasonable.  The Court finds that the settlement is reasonable, and
based thereon, approves and grants the petition. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the Petition to Confirm Minor’s Compromise.
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Petition to Confirm
Minor’s Compromise
is GRANTED.