Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22BBCV00830
Plaintiff's Name: Amanda Chappell
Defendant's Name: Kone, Inc.
People-Names: Amanda Chappell
Company-Names: Kone, Inc., Public Storage
Places: Burbank, California
Dates: October 24, 2022, August 15, 2023, November 27, 2023, February 14, 2024, February 23, 2024, March 15, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Opposition, Reply, Attempt to file First Amended Complaint, Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Kone, Inc. intends to dismiss the Premises Liability cause of action without leave to amend; Plaintiff intends to amend the Complaint to remove Premises Liability cause of action and add new causes of action
Facts: Plaintiff was injured by an elevator at a Public Storage facility; Plaintiff alleges negligence and premises liability; Kone, Inc. is a Doe Defendant identified as the owner of the property
Disputes: Kone, Inc. argues that the Premises Liability cause of action is insufficiently pleaded; Plaintiff agrees and seeks to amend the Complaint
Acts: Kone, Inc. filed a demurrer; Plaintiff filed an opposition and proposed First Amended Complaint; Kone, Inc. replied to the opposition
Agreements: Plaintiff agrees that the Premises Liability cause of action is improperly stated against Kone, Inc.
Laws: California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1); Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132
Case Citations: Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Plaintiff (Amanda Chappell), Defendant (Kone, Inc.), Judge (F.M. Tavelman)
Significant Statements: The Court finds Kone, Inc.'s demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend; The Court strongly recommends the parties meet and confer prior to the filing of the motion for leave to amend.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling sustaining Kone, Inc.'s demurrer to the second cause of action for Premises Liability without leave to amend. The Court finds that the cause of action is insufficiently pleaded and that Kone, Inc. is not properly named as a defendant in the Premises Liability cause of action. The plaintiff, Amanda Chappell, agrees that the cause of action should not stand against Kone, Inc. and seeks to amend the Complaint to remove the Premises Liability cause of action and add new causes of action. The Court recommends that the parties meet and confer prior to filing a motion for leave to amend and notes that the parties will need to file a noticed motion for leave to amend if they wish to add the new causes of action.