 Case Number:  22BBCV00830    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 23,
2024

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00830

 



MP:  


Kone, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Amanda Chappell (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS & ANALYSIS:  
 
On October, 24, 2022,
Amanda Chappell (Plaintiff) filed this action against Public Storage and Does
1-100 (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleges she was injured by an
elevator while at a facility owned by Public Storage. Plaintiff’s Complaint
contained two causes of action for (1) General Negligence and (2) Premises
Liability. Both causes of action in the Complaint were stated against all
Defendants. On August 15, 2023, Plaintiff amended her Complaint identifying
Kone, Inc. (Kone) as a Doe Defendant. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Kone
filed a demurrer to the second cause of action for Premises Liability.
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion and Kone replied. On February 14,
2024, Plaintiff attempted to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC), however it was
rejected as Public Storage had already filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Kone argues that
Plaintiff’s cause of action states insufficient facts as to Kone’s status as
the owner of the property upon which Plaintiff was injured. “Premises liability
is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to
control and manage the premises.” (Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, [quotation marks omitted].) 
 
In her opposition,
Plaintiff agrees that the cause of action for Premises Liability is improperly
stated against Kone. Plaintiff instead seeks leave of the Court to amend her
Complaint to remove her Premises Liability cause of action as to Kone and to add
causes of action for Gross Negligence (as to Public Storage) and Common Carrier
Liability (as to Kone). Plaintiff attaches a copy of her proposed FAC
containing these causes of action. 
 
In their reply, Kone argues
that Plaintiff’s FAC improperly pleads its cause of action for Common Carrier
Liability. Kone states that this cause of action cannot be stated against it
because Kone did not hold itself out to the public to transport goods or
persons from place to place. 
 
The Court finds the
arguments regarding common carrier liability are outside the scope of this
demurrer. The stated grounds for Kone’s demurrer are that the cause of action
from Premises Liability contains insufficient allegations and the Court’s
consideration is limited to those grounds. Plaintiff agrees this cause of
action should not stand against Kone. Given the arguments of the parties
concerning the cause of action for Premises Liability, the Court finds Kone’s
demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly, Kone’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for Premises Liability is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 
To the extent the parties
believe the Court should adjudicate the addition of the new causes of action,
such a decision requires a noticed motion for leave to amend. The Court notes
that Plaintiff has reserved the date of March 15, 2023 for the hearing of such
a motion, though no motion has been filed as of yet. To adjudicate the addition
of the causes of action at this stage would be improper, as Plaintiff has had
no opportunity to respond to the authority and points raised in Kone’s reply to
the demurrer. Additionally, one of the new causes of action is directed at
Public Storage, who have had no opportunity to brief the issue. 
 
The Court strongly
recommends the parties meet and confer prior to the filing of the motion for
leave to amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kone,
Inc.’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on February 23, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
KONE, INC.’S DEMURRER TO
THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR PREMISES LIABILITY IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
THE HEARING ON MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND SET FOR MARCH 15, 2024 REMAINS. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, KONE, INC. TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 23, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 