 Case Number:  23BBCV02519    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 23,
2024

MOTION
TO INTERVENE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02519

 



MP:  


Empire Fire and Marine
  Insurance Company (Intervenor)




RP:  


Liana Ordaz (Plaintiff)
  & Levon Anayan (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is
an action between Liana Ordaz (Plaintiff) and Levon Anayan (Defendant) relating
to an automobile collision between the parties. Before the Court is a motion to
intervene by Empire Fire and Marine Insurance Company (Empire). Empire contends
that, as the insurer for Defendant, it has an interest in this litigation. The
basis for this claim is Empire’s belief that Plaintiff and Defendant staged the
collision in order to defraud their insurance companies. Plaintiff and
Defendant both oppose the motion and Empire replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
For more
than a century following the enactment of section 387 in 1872, intervention was
permitted on a purely discretionary basis. (Accurso v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023)
94 Cal.App.5th 1128, 1136, review granted.) With some minor wording variations
as it evolved, the statute stated, “At any time before trial, any person, who
has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both, may intervene in the action or
proceeding.” (Id. [internal citation omitted].)
 
In 1977, C.C.P.
§ 387 was amended to conform with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP)
more closely. The purpose of this amendment was to create a statutory right to
intervention mirroring that of FRCP Rule 24. The current C.C.P. § 387 reads in
relevant part as follows: 
 
The court shall, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the
following conditions is satisfied:
 
A provision of law confers an unconditional
right to intervene;
 
The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that
person's interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.
 
(C.C.P. §
387(d)(1). [emphasis added].) 
 
The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.
 
(C.C.P. §
387(d)(2). [emphasis added].) 
 
“This
statute has an extensive case law gloss. It is designed to protect the
interests of others affected by the judgment, obviating delay and multiplicity.
The law abhors multiplicity of actions, consuming the time of the court and
entailing additional public expense. While courts have recognized section 387
should be liberally construed in favor of intervention, the moving party
seeking intervention always bears the burden of proving entitlement to party
status.” (Accurso supra 94 Cal.App.5th at 1138 [cleaned up].) 
 
Mandatory
intervention under section 387(d)(1)(B) must be permitted where parties: (1)
file a timely application, (2) have an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action, (3) are so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede their ability to protect that
interest, and (4) show that their interest is not adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties. 
 
Permissive
intervention carries forward the discretionary regime on which C.C.P. § 387 was
founded. A trial court may permit a nonparty to intervene in an action if the
nonparty has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of
either of the parties, or an interest against both. (C.C.P. § 387(d)(2).)
Intervention will generally be permitted if: (1) the proper procedures have
been followed, (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the
action, (3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation, and
(4) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties
presently in the action. (City and County of San Francisco v. State of
California (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1030, 1036.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court notes that Empire
improperly states the grounds for its motion as C.C.P. § 387(a). C.C.P. § 387,
under the current statute, is a definitional section which does not set forth
the grounds for a motion to intervene. It appears from the substance of
Empire’s motion that their motion is actually brought pursuant to the
permissive intervention principles set forth by C.C.P. § 387(d)(2). 
 
Empire submits the
declaration of its counsel Rodrigo J. Bozoghlian. Bozoghlian states that Empire
has significant cause to believe that Plaintiff and Defendant conspired to
stage the motor vehicle accident in this case. (Bozoghlian Decl. ¶ 3-4.)
This belief is founded on the electronic data obtained from Defendant’s vehicle
just before the accident and pictures of the scene which Empire claims are
inconsistent with Defendant’s recollection of the accident. (Id.) Empire
further bases its belief on the refusal of Defendant to cooperate with Empire’s
investigation of the incident and to appear for an Examination Under Oath.
(Bozoghlian Decl. ¶ 10.) Empire states that both vehicles were taken to a
body shop which is subject to investigation for fraudulent activity.
(Bozoghlian Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
The Court finds that Empire
has made an adequate showing pursuant to the principles of permissive
intervention. 
 
First, Empire has shown
that it has a direct interest in the matter of this litigation. Empire, as the
insurer for Defendant, would necessarily be financially liable for any monetary
judgment obtained against Defendant. Empire’s interest in this litigation is clear.

 
Next, the Court finds that
Empire’s intervention would not enlarge the issues already involved in the
litigation. This litigation is, at its core, about a motor vehicle accident
between Defendant and Plaintiff. The circumstances surrounding that motor
vehicle accident (i.e., when it occurred, how it came to be, and who is
responsible) are all considerations relevant to the determination of this
litigation. Consequently, it does not appear to the Court that Empire’s claim
that the accident was fabricated falls outside the parameters of the current
litigation. Empire’s claims directly concern the factors of causation that were
already at issue in this case. 
 
Lastly, the Court finds
that Empire’s reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by Plaintiff or
Defendant. Plaintiff and Defendant oppose this motion solely on the grounds
that the Bozoghlian declaration is hearsay. Neither Plaintiff nor Defendant
substantively brief their opposition outside of their objections to the
Bozoghlian declaration. Nor do the parties submit any authority that C.C.P. §
387 requires an evidentiary showing to permit intervention. 
 
C.C.P. § 387(d)(2) vests
permissive intervention in the Court’s discretion and makes no reference to an
evidentiary showing. By the plain facts of the case, the Court finds Empire has
an interest which is separate from the parties that would not otherwise be
represented. Further, the Bozoghlian declaration only stands for the belief of
Empire that a fraud occurred here. The Bozoghlian declaration is not
dispositive of any claims and only serves to establish the basis for Empire’s
interest in this case. 
 
Accordingly, Empire’s
motion to intervene is GRANTED. Empire is to file its answer in intervention
and serve notice upon both Plaintiff and Defendant pursuant to C.C.P. § 387(e).
Empires answer shall be filed within 30 days. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Empire Fire
and Marine Insurance Company’s Motion to Intervene came on regularly for hearing on February 23, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED. 
 
EMPIRE IS TO FILE ITS ANSWER IN INTERVENTION AND
SERVE NOTICE UPON BOTH PLAINTIFF AND DEFENDANT PURSUANT TO C.C.P. § 387(e). 
 
EMPIRES ANSWER SHALL BE FILED WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
 
DATE: 
February 23, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 