 Case Number:  23BBCV02266    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 23,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION & STAY MATTER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02266

 



MP:  


Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc. (Defendant)
  




RP:  


Shakira Peel (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Shakira Peel (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Medix Staffing Solutions, Inc. (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges that she was the victim of discrimination while an employee
of Defendant, ultimately resulting in the retaliatory termination of her
employment. Plaintiff’s Complaint states causes of action for (1) Retaliation,
(2) Harassment based on Race/Color/National Origin, (2) Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, (4) Discrimination, and (5) Failure to Permit Inspection of
Employee Records under the California Labor Code. 
 
Defendant now moves
to compel the matter to arbitration, stating that a valid arbitration agreement
exists between the parties. Plaintiff opposes this motion and Defendant
replies.
 
ANALYSIS: 
  
I.          LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
Stay 
 
Once
arbitration has been compelled, in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is
mandatory if the issues in the arbitration and the pending action overlap. (C.C.P.
§ 1281.4 (if a court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State,
the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.”)) 
 
“The
purpose of the statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the
jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration
is resolved. In the absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in
the trial court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them
ineffective.” (Federal Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1370, 1374-1375 [citations omitted].) 
 
II.        MERITS 
 
Defendant
submits a copy of the arbitration agreement (Agreement) that was signed by
Plaintiff as part of her job application on August 18, 2023. ((Mrumlinski
Motion Decl., Exh. 1.) This agreement appears to bind both parties to
arbitration of the disputes relevant to this case. Plaintiff does not dispute the
validity of the Agreement, instead arguing that it is unenforceable by nature
of unconscionability. 
 
Agreements
to arbitrate will not be enforced if they are unconscionable. Unconscionability
has two components: procedural and substantive. (Little v. Auto Stigler,
Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be present to avoid arbitration but need not be present to
the same degree. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services
(2002) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115.)
 
Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Arbitration
agreements imposed as a condition of employment are typically adhesive. (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126.) When a contract is an adhesion
contract, imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining power, the
adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of procedural
unconscionability. (Sanchez v Carmax Auto Superstores Cal., LLC (2014)
224 CA 4th 398, 403.) However, this fact alone is insufficient to make an
agreement unconscionable. (Diaz v Sohnen Enters. (2019) 34 CA 5th 126,
132.) When there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, the degree
of procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and it will be
enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is high. (Ajamian
v CantorCo2e, L.P. (2012) 203 CA 4th 771, 796.) 
 
The Court
finds the agreement here is an adhesion contract by virtue of its presentation
to Plaintiff as part of her application to work for Defendant. (See Mrumlinski
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1; Peel Decl. ¶ 5.) However, the Court does not find
that the adhesive nature of the contract giving rise to the level of procedural
unconscionability to invalidate the agreement. 
The evidence is clear that the contract was signed on August 18, 2023 by
Plaintiff as part of her application to work for Defendant. (Id.) 
 
Defendant
argues that procedural unconscionability is low because Plaintiff received
ample time to review the agreement before signing. Defendant submits, for the
first time in their Reply Declaration, that Plaintiff was electronically
provided the agreement on August 17, 2023. (Mrulminski Reply Decl. ¶ 6.)
The Court notes that new evidence submitted in reply brief is generally not to
be considered except in the exceptional case and if it is considered the other
party must be given a chance to reply. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.
App. 4th 1522, 1537.) As such, the Reply Declaration will not be considered in
the Court’s determination. 
 
Even
without the Reply Declaration, the Court finds no showing of significant
procedural unconscionability.  The only
evidence of procedural unconscionability presented by Plaintiff is that the
contract was included with her job application, and she was not given
substantial time to review it. (Peel Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) Plaintiff’s argument
that these conditions were procedurally unconscionable relies primarily on the
case of OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, which the Court finds factually
distinguishable. 
 
Kho pertained to the presentation of a mandatory
arbitration agreement to an existing employee. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho supra
8 Cal.5th at 127.) The employer in Kho admitted that the employee
was told he must sign the documents to keep his job and that the presenter
waited in the employee’s office for him to sign the documents. (Id.) The
Court in Kho determined these circumstances indicated surprise and
oppression beyond that of a simple employer adhesion contract. Here, Plaintiff
was not an established employee of Defendant, and her refusal to sign the
agreement would not result in her losing existing employment. Additionally, the
agreement was clearly presented to Plaintiff and signed in an electronic form. There
is no evidence that someone was directly pressuring her to sign the documents
by virtue of their physical presence. 
 
Plaintiff
also relies upon Fitz v. NCR Corp., which is also factually
distinguishable. In Fitz the employee worked for the defendant over a
decade before they were presented with the mandatory arbitration agreement. (Fitz
v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 722.) In determining that the
agreement in Fitz presented a high degree of procedural
unconscionability, the Court remarked, “Few employees are in a position to
forfeit a job and the benefits they have accrued for more than a decade solely
to avoid the arbitration terms that are forced upon them by their employer.” (Id.)
The agreements in Kho and Fitz were presented in entirely
different circumstances which make them inapposite to this case.   However, this alone is not determinative as
the court must also consider substantive unconscionability.   
 
Given
that Plaintiff has shown a modicum of procedural unconscionability, she bears
the burden to show substantial substantive unconscionability. (See Serafin v
Balco Props. Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 CA 4th 165, 177–178 [ Holding that when
this party shows a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability, the party
must make a strong showing of substantive unconscionability to render the
arbitration provision unenforceable.].) 
 
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Substantive
unconscionability pertains to an arbitration agreement’s fairness.  The court will examine the actual terms assess
whether those terms are overly harsh or one-sided. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho supra
at 129.) A term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives
one party a greater benefit; instead, it must be so one-sided as to “shock the
conscience” of the court. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass'n v Pinnacle Mktg. Dev.
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal. App. 4th 223, 246.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it precludes
her ability to pursue an administrative charge with the “Civil Rights Division
(previously the Department of Fair Employment and Housing).”  The Plaintiff is likely referring to the
Civil Rights Department for the State of California, and not the “Civil Rights
Division.”  The Court notes that the Agreement
expressly permits Plaintiff to pursue such a claim. The agreement includes the
following statement: 
 
While I have the right to file a charge or
complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the National Labor
Relations Board (‘NLRB’), the Department of Labor, the Occupational Safety and
Health Commission, or any other federal, state, or local administrative agency,
if any federal, state, or local administrative agency proceeding does not
finally resolve the Covered Claim, the parties must submit the claim to
arbitration under this Agreement. 
 
(Mrumlinski
Motion Decl., Exh. 1 at pg. 1.)
 
The above
provision clearly indicates that Plaintiff maintains the ability to submit
claims multiple administrative agencies, and furthermore, nothing prevents a
complaint to California’s Civil Rights Department if applicable. 
 
The Court
also finds Plaintiff’s argument that the Agreement contains conditions which
are unfairly beneficial to Medix unpersuasive. On its face, the Agreement binds
Medix and Plaintiff equally, with each party agreeing to submit any claims
against the other to binding arbitration. As an example of these unfair terms,
Plaintiff states that the agreement carves out “unlawful detainer actions or
any dispute that arises from Employer’s action to regain possession of the
premises.” and small claims suits. (See Oppo at pg. 7.) Having reviewed the
Agreement in its entirety, the Court notes that these provisions do not exist.
It appears that Plaintiff is either entirely mistaken as to the contents of the
Agreement or is referencing an agreement from a prior motion in an unrelated
case. 
 
Conclusion

 
While
Plaintiff has established a modicum of procedural unconscionability, she has
failed to establish any degree of substantive unconscionability such that the
Agreement could be found to be unenforceable. Accordingly, the motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Stay
 
As the
Court grants the motion to compel arbitration in its entirety, the motion for
stay is similarly GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Medix Staffing
Solutions, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Motion for Stay came on regularly for hearing on February 23, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED 
 
THE MOTION FOR STAY IS GRANTED. 
 
THE COURT SETS AN STATUS CONFERENCE RE:
ARBITRATION FOR FEBRUARY 20, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 23, 2024                            
_______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN,
Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 