 Case Number:  24SMCV04357    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04357




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant 11045 Strathmore, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Sephora Weber



 
MOTIONS
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff Sephora Weber (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit against Defendants 11045 Strathmore, LLC; Uncommon Developers, LLC; Ryan
Hekmat; Ryan and Jasmin Hekmat Family Trust; and Thomas Marroquin, alleging
eleven causes of action as follows:
 
(1)  
Breach of implied warranty of habitability
(2)  
Breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment
(3)  
Constructive eviction
(4)  
Nuisance
(5)  
Intentional infliction of emotional distress
(6)  
Premises liability
(7)  
General negligence
(8)  
Negligent maintenance of the premises in violation of
Civil Code, § 1714, subd. (a)
(9)  
Negligent hiring and supervision in violation of Civil
Code, § 1714, subd. (a)
(10)                  
Violation of health and safety code, § 17920.3
(11)                  
Unfair and illegal business practices in violation of
Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200
 
Defendant 11045 Strathmore, LLC (“Defendant”) now demurs to the fifth
and eleventh causes of action, on the grounds that they fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  Defendant also moves to strike allegations
requesting attorneys’ fees and punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
Although Defendant brings the demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty, all
of the arguments Defendant raises in the Demurrer concern the sufficiency of
the allegations; the Demurrer does not actually raise any arguments that the
Complaint or the subject claims are uncertain. 
Ultimately, Defendant does not assert that any portion of the Complaint
are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against it.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis
of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
Here, the Complaint alleges
numerous habitability issues, including gas leaks/appliance issues and water
leaks/mold issues.  As to the gas
leaks and appliance issues, Plaintiff alleges:
 
12. On or about September 15, 2022, Plaintiff
noticed a smell of gas in the Subject Property. 
 
13. When it had not been resolved by the next
day, on or about September 16, 2022 Plaintiff contacted an employee, agent,
and/or joint venturer of Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through
100, inclusive, who, upon information and belief, was the on-site manager of
the Subject Property, and was instructed by such employee, agent, and/or joint
venturer of Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive, to call SoCal Gas and have an emergency technician identify the problem.

 
14. On or about October 13, 2022, Plaintiff again
contacted an employee, agent, and/or joint venturer of Defendants, and each of
them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, who, upon information and
belief, was the on-site manager of the Subject Property, to report another gas
smell overtaking the Subject Property appearing to originate from inside the
kitchen oven. 
 
15. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereupon alleges, that Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through
100, inclusive, eventually sent over the Subject Property’s handyman, who
simply turned the oven off and then on again. Defendants then told Plaintiff
that the oven was fine and that if the gas smell appeared again, to just let it
run for a few minutes, and it should disappear. 
 
[…]
 
17. On or about December 9, 2022, Plaintiff left
the Subject Property for a personal vacation for a period of approximately
three weeks. On or about the second or third of January 2023, following her
return to Subject Property, Plaintiff asked the same employee, agent, and/or
joint venturer of Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive, who, upon information and belief, was the on-site manager of the Subject
Property, to turn on the heater because her apartment had become unbearably
cold and there was no heat retention within the Subject Property. 
 
18. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereupon alleges, that the Subject Property’s handyman came to her apartment,
took the whole heater off the wall, and turned it on. However, Plaintiff was
thereafter not able to safely control the heat because the knob on the heater
did not work. As a result, the heat became so unbearable that Plaintiff had to
leave a window open when she went to class. 
 
19. When Plaintiff returned to the Subject
Property from class, she could smell the gas from outside the Subject Property.
Upon information and belief, her apartment was full of gas despite the heat
being turned off. The smell was overwhelming, and Plaintiff was immediately
nauseous. As a result, Plaintiff called SoCal Gas, who confirmed there was a
gas leak. 
 
20. On or about January 23, 2023, Plaintiff again
contacted the same employee, agent, and/or joint venturer of Defendants, and
each of them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, who, upon information
and belief, was the on-site manager of the Subject Property, due to her heater
again not working. At this point, Plaintiff’s roommate had gotten so ill from
the still undiscovered mold, lack of heat, and gas leaks that she had gone home
for two weeks. 
 
21. On or about January 30, 2023, Plaintiff sent
Defendant’s same employee, agent, and/or joint venturer, believed to be the
Subject Property’s on-site manager, another message because a circuit in the
apartment had shut down her Wi-Fi system and the refrigerator to which it was
connected. As a result, multiple items in the apartment were now no longer
working. 
 
22. On or about February 14, 2023, Defendant’s
same employee, agent, and/or joint venturer, believed to be the Subject
Property’s on-site manager, provided Plaintiff with a small space heater that
was not at all sufficient to heat the Subject Property. 
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 12-15, 17-22.)   As for the water
leaks and mold issues, Plaintiff asserts:
 
16. On or about December 3, 2022, Plaintiff sent
the same employee, agent, and/or joint venturer of Defendants, and each of
them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, who, upon information and
belief, was the on-site manager of the Subject Property, photos of a hole in
the ceiling of the garage and the fallen pieces of wood and drywall that had
collapsed onto her motorcycle. Upon information and belief, the hole had been
caused by a water leak in the apartment above Plaintiff’s parking spot. The hole
was eventually patched, but the debris from the hole was never cleaned nor
damages remedied. 
 
23. On or about March 11, 2023, Plaintiff sent
Defendant’s same employee, agent, and/or joint venturer, believed to be the
Subject Property’s on-site manager, another message to inform Defendants, and
each of them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, that the bathroom in the
apartment above unit in the Subject Property had leaked, causing the ceiling to
begin caving and debris to fall. 
 
24. Upon information and belief, in April of
2023, Plaintiff first noticed mold in the Subject Property’s bathroom that,
upon information and belief, existed before Plaintiff’s tenancy at the Subject
Property began and remained hidden and growing all throughout the term of
Plaintiff’s tenancy. 
 
25. Defendant’s handyman attempted to clean the
mold from the Subject Property by scrubbing and leaving a dehumidifier within
Plaintiff’s apartment. These minimal and negligent efforts were not successful
and, upon information and belief, caused the mold to further spread through
Plaintiff’s apartment in the Subject Property. 
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 16, 23-25.)  As for intentional infliction of emotional distress specifically, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
70. Plaintiff was in a landlord-tenant
relationship with Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive, paying rent and occupying the Subject Property, pursuant to a
written agreement. 
 
71. The conduct of Defendants, and each of them,
including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, was outrageous in the extreme. As
landlords and managers of the Subject Property, Defendants were in a position
of authority, which they consistently abused by, among other things, knowingly
failing and refusing to abate a dangerous and unhealthy nuisance; failing to
maintain Plaintiff's lawfully leased units so that Plaintiff lived and
continues to live in filth and decrepitude; harassing and intimidating Plaintiff;
and retaliating against Plaintiff by issuing illegal notices and reducing
services. 
 
72. Defendants, and each of them, including DOES
1 through 100, inclusive, did these things with actual knowledge that the
conditions in the Subject Property were causing sickness and injury to
Plaintiff and that such harassment and intimidation would cause emotional
distress, worry, and anxiety. Defendants and their agents abused their
positions as owners and managers of a Subject Property occupied by student
tenants by refusing to make Subject Property habitable, harassing and
intimidating Plaintiff, and reducing the services Plaintiff should be receiving
for the purpose of Defendants’ business profits. 
 
73. Defendants, and each of them, including DOES
1 through 100, inclusive, knew that Plaintiff was particularly vulnerable to
the conditions in the Subject Property. Defendants knew that Plaintiff was a
student with limited resources, and that locating comparably priced housing
would be impossible and/or impracticable. Defendants knew that Plaintiff's
interest in holding onto the housing in Los Angeles's competitive rental market
is great, and that such interest would cause Plaintiff to continue their tenancy
in Subject Property despite its uninhabitable state, unless and until it became
so unbearable such that Plaintiff had to leave, and Defendants could rent the
Subject Property for a higher rate of rent. Additionally, but without
limitation, Defendants knew that Plaintiff was a student and, therefore, would
be less likely to lodge a complaint with government officials regarding the
Subject Property’s conditions and Defendants' abuse. Thus, Defendants knew, or
reasonably should have known, that their conduct would result in Plaintiff's
severe and extreme emotional distress and financial freefall. 
 
74. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants' conduct, and that of their agents and employees, Plaintiff has
suffered and continues to suffer severe emotional distress, including extreme
suffering, anguish, fearfulness, horror, anxiety, worry, humiliation, and
shame, resulting in damages in an amount to be determined at trial, but which
amount is in excess of the jurisdictional minimum of this Court. 
 
75. Defendants' intentional infliction of
emotional distress has been despicable, malicious, willful, knowing, cruel,
unjust, and oppressive, thereby entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages in an
amount to be determined at trial.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 70-75.)
 
Although the Complaint
adequately alleges that there were persistent gas leaks and mold issues, the
allegations do not rise to the level of extreme or outrageous conduct on the
part of Defendants.  Specifically,
although Plaintiff alleges persistent gas leaks, Plaintiff also alleges that
each time Plaintiff contacted Defendants about the issue, they remediated (or
at least attempted to remediate) it.  
 
Moreover, the allegations on
this point are incomplete, or even contradictory.  For example, Plaintiff alleges she first
contacted Defendants about the smell of gas on September 16, 2022 (Complaint ¶
13).  But there are no further
allegations about what happened next. 
Thus, the Court cannot glean from this allegation that Defendants either
with conscious or reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s health and safety ignored
the complaint or otherwise responded with extreme and outrageous conduct.
 
Plaintiff next alleges she
informed Defendants of the smell of gas on or about October 13, 2022, to which
Defendants responded by sending the handyman out, who investigated Plaintiff’s oven/stove.  (Complaint ¶¶ 14-15.)  But Plaintiff does not allege that she
continued to smell gas immediately following that incident.
 
Plaintiff next alleges that in
late January 2023, she asked Defendants to turn on her heater, which the
handyman did, but that Plaintiff could not turn the heater off because the knob
was broken, and had to leave her windows open while she went to class to
diffuse the overwhelming heat in her unit. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 17-18.)  Upon
arriving home from class, Plaintiff could smell gas outside the unit
(presumably emanating through the open windows), which the gas company
confirmed was a gas leak “despite the heat being turned off.”  (Complaint ¶ 19.)  Thus, Plaintiff has alleged conflicting
information that the heat was on and could not be turned off (which caused her
to leave the windows open) and also that the heat was turned off.  In any event, there are no allegations about
Defendants’ response to the gas leak in late January 2023, whether extreme and
outrageous or otherwise.
 
Similarly, with respect to the
mold issues, the Complaint alleges Defendants informed Plaintiff of the leak
above her unit, and upon being informed of mold issues, the handyman
“negligently” attempted to clean the mold. 
But mere negligence does not rise to the level of “extreme and
outrageous” conduct done either intentionally or with reckless disregard for
Plaintiff’s emotional wellbeing to state a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Eleventh
Cause of Action – Unfair and Illegal Business Practices
 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice
or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant
to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of Am. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.) 
“By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business practice, section 17200 borrows
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair
competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice may be deemed unfair
even if not specifically proscribed by some other law.”  (Ibid.)
 
In order to have standing to
bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must “(1) establish a loss or deprivation of
money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e., economic
injury, and (2) show that that economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused
by, the unfair business practice or false advertising that is the gravamen of
the claim.”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)
 
Here, in addition to the
allegations above, Plaintiff alleges:
 
109. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereupon alleges, that Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through
100, inclusive, have engaged in unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business
practices as part of a scheme to make more money by not complying with laws and
regulations. Defendants' unfair and fraudulent practices include, but are not
limited to: 
 
a. Failing to maintain and repair the premises as
required by numerous residential, health, and safety laws, including, but not
limited to, California Civil Code section 1941, and as required by the implied
warranty of habitability; 
 
b. Decreasing services and staffing; and 
 
c. Making fraudulent representations regarding
the efforts taken to remedy dangerous and hazardous conditions of the Subject
Property. 
 
110. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
thereupon alleges, that Defendants, and each of them, including DOES 1 through
100, inclusive, intentionally and negligently made fraudulent representations
to Plaintiff and other tenants of the Subject Property about, without
limitation, the efforts taken to remedy complaints related to the habitability
of the Subject Property and the success of such negligent efforts. 
 
111. Upon information and belief, Defendants, and
each of them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, made said fraudulent
representations about, without limitation, the efforts taken to remedy
complaints related to the habitability of the Subject Property and the success
of such negligent efforts, in order to maintain their tenancy at the Subject
Property and continue receiving steady rent payments throughout the period that
renting to new tenants at a higher rate would not be feasible. 
 
112. Upon information and belief, Defendants, and
each of them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, had a personal financial
interest in wrongfully misleading Plaintiff and other tenants of the Subject
Property and put said personal financial interests ahead of the legal interests
and securities of Plaintiff. 
 
113. Upon information and belief, Defendants, and
each of them, including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, intentionally engaged in
the unfair and illegal business practices described herein for the purpose of
increasing his personal assets and wealth, defrauding Plaintiff and other
tenants of the Subject Property for their personal and larger business benefit.

 
114. Defendants' conduct, as herein alleged, was
and is a part of Defendants' general business practice. This business practice
exists in part because Defendants expected that few adverse consequences would
flow from their mistreatment and neglect of student tenants of the Subject
Property. 
 
115. By their continuous violations of the
statutes and common law referenced herein, Defendants have engaged in per se
unlawful business practices in violation of Business and Professions Code
sections 17200 et seq. 
 
116. As a result of Defendants' conduct,
Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer substantial injury. Plaintiff
is, therefore, entitled to restitution of all funds paid to Defendants by
Plaintiff.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 109-116.)
 
Thus, the Complaint alleges
(1) unlawful conduct (violations of Civil Code section 1941); and (2) economic
injury (rent paid to Defendants for the uninhabitable unit) that was caused by
Defendants’ allegedly unlawful conduct.
 
Defendant argues that the
Complaint fails to allege a violation of the UCL with requisite
specificity.  But no more specificity is
required at the pleadings stage.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the eleventh cause of action. 
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
            Here, Defendant moves to strike
allegations requesting attorneys’ fees and punitive damages.
 
A.   
ATTORNEYS’
FEES
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, which outlines recoverable costs to a prevailing party under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees
when authorized by contract, statute, or law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 provides
“[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the
measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to
the agreement, express or implied, of the parties [….]”  Similarly, Civil Code section 1717 provides
“[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that
attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be
awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party
who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she
is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff seeks Attorneys’
fees in connection with the Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment pursuant to Civil Code section 3304.  (Complaint ¶ 50.)  Section 3304 provides:
 
The
detriment caused by the breach of a covenant of “seizin,” of “right to convey,”
of “warranty,” or of “quiet enjoyment,” in a grant of an estate in real
property, is deemed to be:
 
1. The
price paid to the grantor; or, if the breach is partial only, such proportion
of the price as the value of the property affected by the breach bore at the
time of the grant to the value of the whole property;
 
2.
Interest thereon for the time during which the grantee derived no benefit from
the property, not exceeding five years;
 
3. Any
expenses properly incurred by the covenantee in defending his possession.
 
However, an action on a breach
of a covenant is an action sounding in contract.  (Barrows v. Jackson (1952) 112
Cal.App.2d 534, 538.)  Pursuant to Civil
Code section 1717, in an action on a contract, attorneys’ fees are only
available where the contract specifically so provides.  
 
Further, Section 3304 of the
Civil Code limits damages in cases involving leases of real estate to the value
of the term of the lease.  (Standard
Live Stock Co. v. Pentz (1928) 204 Cal. 618, 638.)  And even in cases where the plaintiff has
purchased title to the property, although such a plaintiff is entitled to “the
sum actually and in good faith paid for the paramount title and the amount
expended in defending his possession, provided such damages shall in no case exceed the purchase money and
interest.”  (McGary v. Hastings (1870) 39
Cal. 360, 369, emphasis added.)
 
Thus, the Court does not find legal support for Plaintiff’s contention
that Section 3304 permits the recovery of attorneys’ fees in cases on contract
involving a breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment in the absence of
a contractual provision entitling Plaintiff to recover attorneys’ fees, and
Plaintiff does not address this attorneys’ fees issue in the opposition.
 
B.   
PUNITIVE
DAMAGES
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
Here, as discussed above, although Plaintiff generally alleges that
Defendants acted with oppression, fraud, or malice, Plaintiff’s factual
allegations fall short of alleging that Defendants acted either intentionally
or with a willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights.  
 
Further, although Plaintiff alleges that Defendants fraudulently rented
the unit to Plaintiff, despite known habitability issues, and refused to
adequately repair those issues in order to constructively evict Plaintiff so
that they could rent out the unit to a new tenant for a higher rent (see Complaint
¶¶ 27-28,  110-113), Plaintiff has not
pleaded facts with the requisite specificity as to what specifically was known,
by whom specifically, and when, or what specific misrepresentations were made,
by whom, to whom, how, and when, to support a claim for punitive damages.  Furthermore, all allegations are made as to
Defendants generally and/or the “handyman” specifically, and therefore
Plaintiff does not allege any specific knowledge or conduct on the part of
Defendant’s corporate leadership to support a claim of punitive damages against
entity defendant.  
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike in its
entirety.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden as she does not
specify any facts that could be added to the Complaint to address the
deficiencies identified above.  Rather, as
to the demurrer, Plaintiff merely indicates, “should the Court find that
Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to sufficiently state its claims for relief, leave
to amend should be granted” and as to the motion to strike, Plaintiff merely indicates,
“Plaintiff requests leave to amend to address any deficiencies identified by
the Court.”   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Eleventh Cause of Action, but Sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
Further, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike in its entirety,
and orders the identified allegations requesting attorneys’ fees and punitive
damages stricken from the Complaint, without leave to amend. 
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before January 13, 2025.
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from January 14, 2025 to March 17, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).    
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 16, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court