  Case Number:  19SMCV00537    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV00537




MOTION


Motion for an Order Enforcing the Settlement Agreement




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Milan Cvejic 




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Skyview Capital, LLC; Newnet Communication
  Technologies, LLC; Newnet Investment Group, LLC; and Alex Soltani



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an employment dispute.  On March 18, 2019, Plaintiffs Milan Cvejic
(“Plaintiff”) and Kareem Akhtar (“Akhtar”) filed the instant action against
Defendants Skyview Capital, LLC, Newnet Communications Technologies, LLC,
Newnet Investment Group, Alex Soltani, and Christopher Aye.  The Complaint asserts fourteen causes of
action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (3) willful failure to pay wages; (4) quantum meruit;
(5) promissory estoppel; (6) conversion; (7) intentional misrepresentation; (8)
violation of Labor Code section 970; (9) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy; (10) unlawful business practices; (11) failure to reimburse;
(12) breach of fiduciary duty; (13) unjust enrichment; and (14) declaratory
relief. 
 
            On June 7, 2022, Akhtar filed a
notice of settlement of Akhrtar’s claims.
 
            On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff Cvejic
filed a notice of settlement of entire case, indicating a conditional
settlement had been reached.  As a
result, the Court vacated the pending hearing dates, including the final status
conference and jury trial.  (Minute
Order, May 31, 2024.)
 
            Plaintiff now moves for an order
enforcing the settlement agreement. 
Defendants Skyview Capital, LLC; Newnet Communications Technologies,
LLC; Newnet Investment Group, LLC; and Alex Soltani (“Defendants”) oppose the
motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
issue on a motion to enforce settlement agreement under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6 is whether the parties entered into a valid and binding
settlement agreement. (See Viejo v. Bancorp. (1989) 217 Cal.App.3d 200,
209, fn. 4 [“a court's power to make factual determinations under section 664.6
is generally limited to whether the parties entered into a valid and binding
settlement agreement”].)  In other words,
the only issue before the court is whether an agreement exists; not whether the
agreement has been breached.
 
Once the Court finds such a settlement agreement exists, “the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)  “If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
In support of the motion, Plaintiff has provided the Declaration of
Alishan Jadhavji, which provides:
 
2. On March 8, 2024, the parties in this case reached a settlement
agreement, which was subsequently memorialized in writing. A true and correct
copy of the signed settlement agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit
"A". 
 
3. The key terms of the settlement agreement are as follows: 
 
a. The agreement was effective March 1, 2024. 
 
b. Defendants agreed to pay a principal amount of $653,205 (which
included attorney's fees and costs awarded by this Court and an additional
settlement amount) plus accrued interest. 
 
c. The payment was due on or before 180 days from the Effective Date
of the Agreement, which was September 1, 2024. 
 
d. If the principal amount plus accrued interest was not paid by
September 1, 2024, interest on all amounts would accrue at 10%. 
 
4. The settlement agreement was signed by Defendants Skyview Capital
LLC, Newnet Communications Technologies, LLC, and Alex Soltani on March 21,
2024, by Defendant Christopher Aye on March 22, 2024, and by Plaintiff Milan
Cvejic on August 29, 2024. 
 
5. It should be noted that due to errors in drafting, Defendant
Skyview Capital LLC was omitted in the preamble to the agreement but signed the
agreement, and Defendant NewNet Investment Group was included in the preamble
but did not sign the agreement. Nevertheless, the agreement was signed by
Defendant Alex Soltani as principal of all Defendants. 
 
6. As of the date of this declaration, Defendants have failed to
comply with the terms of the settlement by not paying the settlement amount of
$653,205 plus accrued interest by September 1, 2024, as required by the
settlement agreement.
 
(Jadhavji
Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)
 
            Although the declaration purports to
attach a copy of the agreement as Exhibit A, no such Exhibit is attached or
otherwise provided to the Court.
 
            As such, Plaintiff has failed to
meet its burden to prove a written settlement agreement exists between the
parties.  Furthermore, without seeing the
written settlement agreement, the Court cannot confirm that the terms of the
judgment Plaintiff seeks are aligned with the parties’ agreement.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore, having found Plaintiff
failed to meet its burden of proof that a written settlement agreement exists
between the parties, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.  

 
 
DATED:  December 16, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court