 Case Number:  20STCV03577    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 17, 2024, continued to December 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV03577




MOTION


Motion for an Order that Plaintiff Post an Undertaking




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants and Cross-Complainants Label27 and Brooks Ellis




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Derek Underwood



 
MOTION
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Label 27, LLC (“L27”) and Brooks
Ellis (“Ellis”) (together, “Defendants”) move for an order that Plaintiff Derek
Underwood (“Plaintiff”) post an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1030, subdivision (b) in the amount of $18,810.25.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants
reply.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Manuel
Balam:
 
1.    
Sustained
2.    
Sustained
3.    
Sustained
4.    
Sustained
5.    
Sustained
6.    
Sustained
7.    
Sustained
8.    
Sustained
9.    
Sustained
10.  Overruled
11.  Sustained
12.  Sustained
13.  Sustained
14.  Sustained
15.  Overruled
16.  Overruled
17.  Sustained
18.  Sustained
 
The Court rules as follows with respect to Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections to the Exhibits:
 
1.    
Sustained
2.    
Sustained
 
The Court rules as follows with respect to Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections to the Testimony of Brooks Ellis:
 
1.    
Overruled
 
ANALYSIS
 
“When the plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of
the state, or is a foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to
the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an
undertaking.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030,
subd. (a).)  The plaintiff is not
required to file an undertaking unless “there is a reasonable possibility that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special
proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030,
subd. (b).)  The defendant is not
required to show that there is no possibility that the plaintiff can prevail at
trial, but rather must demonstrate only that it is reasonably possible that the
defendant will prevail.  (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432-1433.)  The
defendant must also submit an affidavit stating the nature and amount of costs
and attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred, and expects to incur throughout
the remainder of the proceedings.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)   
 
“If the court, after hearing, determines that the grounds for the
motion have been established, the court shall order that the plaintiff file the
undertaking in an amount specified in the court’s order as security for costs
and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1030, subd. (c).)  If the court grants
the motion and the plaintiff fails to file the undertaking within the time
allowed, the court must dismiss the plaintiff’s action or special proceeding as
to the defendant in whose favor the order requiring the undertaking was
made.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd.
(d).)  
 
Here, Defendants advance the Declaration of Kent G. Mariconda, counsel
for Defendants (“Mariconda”), asserting that Plaintiff is a resident of
Panama.  In support, Defendants provide Plaintiff’s
response to a demand for a Defense Medical Examination (“DME”), to which
Plaintiff provided a written objection on the grounds “that Plaintiff currently
resides in Panama, which is more than 75 miles from the location set forth in
the Demand.”  (Mariconda Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
1.)  Plaintiff does not contest that he
lives in Panama.
 
With regard to a reasonable possibility that Defendants will prevail,
Defendants primarily point to the fact that Plaintiff failed to show for a
DME.  Defendants also provide an attorney
declaration, which purports to summarize the discovery responses received in
this case, indicating that Plaintiff was intoxicated and initiated the physical
altercation, first by shouting racial epithets toward Ellis and [Andrew] Heric,
then physically charging at them with a cornhole board, and ultimately
physically moving aggressively in a small group toward an individual protecting
the premises, at which point Ellis tackled an individual to subdue him.  (Mariconda Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff advances the declaration of Manuel D. Balam,
counsel for Plaintiff (“Balam”). 
Regarding Plaintiff’s failure to appear for a physical examination,
Balam indicates that Defendants have no recourse to obtain issue, evidentiary,
or terminating sanctions due to Plaintiff’s failure to appear for the examination,
because it was served on Plaintiff by other Defendants to the litigation, who
have since settled with Plaintiff:
 
14) […] LABEL27 Defendants […] have failed to conduct their own
discovery in riding the coattails of settled-out TCP Defendants and they never
filed joinder to their applicable discovery. Fatally, there is and will be no
basis for LABEL27 Defendants to seek exclusion of anything. 
 
15) The truth is that LABEL27 Defendants did not actually serve their
own demand for physical examination, did not serve their own demand for expert
exchange, did not engage in a mutual exchange of expert information, and served
no expert deposition notices. The Motion fails to point out that all prior
discovery activity was solely by TCP Defendants, who are no longer in the case
as Defendants. To certain discovery by TCP Defendants and only TCP Defendants,
Plaintiff served objections. TCP Defendants never moved to compel. Thus, it has
never been a matter of simply not appearing or not participating. Since LABEL27
Defendants did not conduct their own discovery—no DME; no expert demand; no
expert exchange; and no expert notices; and no joinders to any of these things,
they lack a basis to exclusion of anything. In fact, quite the opposite.
Plaintiff is highly likely, if not certainly, to get exclusionary and
dispositive orders against LABEL27 Defendants because they failed to designate
ANY experts. Defendant has no experts. They will not be able to oppose
Plaintiff’s experts. Plaintiff, who actually did participate in expert
exchanges, will or should win on exclusionary issues as a matter of law
pursuant to CCP §2034.300.
 
(Balam
Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.)  Plaintiff also provides
purported video surveillance of the incident, in which Balam indicates was
“authenticated by ELLIS and HERIC during their depositions.”  (Balam Decl. ¶ 5.)  However, the deposition transcripts provided
do not provide any such authentications. 
As such, the video evidence is unauthenticated and provides no
evidentiary value. 
 
            Ultimately, the Court finds that,
although it is a low bar, Defendants have not met their burden to demonstrate a
reasonable possibility that they will prevail. 
With regard to Plaintiff’s failure to appear for a physical examination,
the matter of issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanctions is not properly
before the Court.   
 
With regard to Defendants’ evidence regarding who actually started the
fight, the attorney declaration describing and summarizing the deposition
testimony is clearly inadmissible hearsay, and Defendants did not provide
authenticated copies of the transcripts themselves.  Therefore, Defendants have not provided any
admissible evidence that there is a reasonable possibility they will prevail at
trial in establishing that Plaintiff is culpable for starting the fight.           
 
At the initial hearing on July 17, Defendants’ counsel represented to
the Court that he submitted his declaration as a legal expert opining on the
probability of obtaining a defense verdict. 
However, without copies of the underlying discovery responses, the Court
cannot, in its role as gatekeeper, conduct even a basic assessment of whether those
responses support counsel’s “expert” opinion. 
(Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University of Southern California
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771–772 [“under Evidence Code sections 801, subdivision
(b), and 802, the trial court acts as a gatekeeper to exclude expert opinion
testimony that is (1) based on matter of a type on which an expert may not
reasonably rely, (2) based on reasons unsupported by the material on which the
expert relies, or 3) speculative”].)  
 
This issue is particularly marked, because in addition to being
hearsay, the declaration’s wording is, at times, too vague and ambiguous to
clearly discern what the deponents actually said.  For example, paragraph 3.e of the Mariconda
declaration provides:
 
“Instinctively intending to continue to protect patrons in the area, a
close watch was made upon the individuals who continued to hurl racial slurs
toward ELLIS and Heric.  Heric testified
that he went to his car to get a stun gun in case the matter further
escalated.  The situation further
escalated as one of the individuals moved in an aggressive manner towards one
of the individuals trying to protect the premises.  This resulted in ELLIS trying to subdue the
individual by tackling him.”  
 
(Mariconda
Decl. at ¶ 3.e.)   
 
Use of the passive voice makes it unclear who made a close watch, and
use of the words “individual” and “him” to refer to multiple people make it
difficult to ascertain who exactly Ellis tackled.  In fact, as counsel pointed out at the prior
hearing, the Court apparently misinterpreted this passage in its prior
tentative ruling.  Thus, without a copy
of the underlying testimony, the Court cannot determine whether counsel’s
understanding and interpretation of it is in accord with the record.
 
CONCLUSION
& ORDER
 
            The Court finds Defendants have
failed to establish a reasonable possibility that they will prevail at trial and
therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to require Plaintiff to post an
undertaking. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
DATED:  December 16, 2024                        ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 