  Case Number:  21STCV44756    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Jane Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV44756




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
June 28, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel
Deposition
Moving Party: Plaintiff Jane Doe 
Responding Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles and
Third-Party Cellbrite, Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and possession of personal property. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant wrongfully confiscated Plaintiff’s phone data.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 2024.020(a) provides, “Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of
right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have
motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date
initially set for the trial of the action.” 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of third-party Cellbrite, Inc.’s person most knowledgeable. Trial is
set for July 8, 2024; discovery closed on June 10, 2024. Plaintiff filed the
motion on June 13, 2024. Plaintiff’s motion is untimely. The Court notes that
Plaintiff has known for approximately two years that Defendants used Cellebrite’s
technology in retrieving data from her phone.
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts the motion
is not untimely because the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application to advance the hearing on the motion. This does not affect the timeliness
of the motion.
 
 Plaintiff
does not request that the Court reopen discovery. Defendant and Cellbrite
represent that they have been prejudiced by Defendants’ delay in seeking relief.
This motion is untimely.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition
is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 