  Case Number:  23TRCV01624    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SONG
  N SONS GENERAL CONSTRUCTION, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01624




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
JOHN
  PARK, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 18,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Cross-defendants Song N
Sons General Construction, Inc., JJJ Homes, Inc., JJJ Builders, LLC and Jayseup
Song
Responding
Party:                  Cross-complainants John Park and Young Park
(1)  
Demurrer to FACC
(2)  
Motion to Strike FACC
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers. 
RULING
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
second and third causes of action in the FACC. 
The motion to strike portions of the FACC is DENIED as to paragraph 32
(fraud) and GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to paragraph 42 (negligent misrepresentation).
Cross-defendants are ordered to
file an answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On May 23, 2023, plaintiff Song N
Sons General Construction, Inc. filed a complaint against John Park and Young
Park for breach of contract.  Plaintiff
alleges that the parties entered into a written contract on February 16, 2021
and that defendants breached the contract in December 2021 by refusing then and
thereafter to pay the balance agreed upon and due for the services performed
and materials provided by plaintiffs.
            On August 18, 2023, defendants filed
a cross-complaint against plaintiff, JJJ Homes Inc., JJJ Builders, and Jayseup
Song for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, and (3) negligent
misrepresentation.  The basic allegations
are that Cross-Defendants represented that they would complete the construction
project in 3 months, and that they failed to do so, while also knowing that
they could not do so.
            On March 19, 2024, defendants filed
a FACC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Cross-defendants demur to the to
the second and third causes of action in the FACC on the grounds that they fail
to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The FACC alleges that on March 16,
2021, the parties entered into a written agreement whereby cross-defendants
were to perform construction at the cross-complainants’ real property at 5318
West 119th Place, Inglewood. 
FACC, ¶13.  Paragraph 3 contains a
promise to complete the agreed-upon work no later than three months from
cross-defendants starting the work.  Id.,
¶14.  Cross-defendants began work on
March 21, 2021.  Pursuant to paragraph 3,
work was to be completed no later than June 21, 2021.  Despite receiving $78,000 as progress
payments, cross-complainants engaged in a pattern of delays and failed to
complete the work within three months as agreed.  Id., ¶15. 
In October 2021 the work remained less than 50% completed.  Further, upon inspection of cross-defendants’
progress, cross-complainants discovered various issues with cross-defendants’
work including poor workmanship, plan deviations, and omissions.  Id., ¶16.
The FACC further alleges that on
October 29, 2021, cross-complainants terminated cross-defendants from the
project.  Id., ¶17.  On November 1, 2021, cross-complainants
agreed to allow cross-defendants to complete the project forthwith.  Id., ¶18. 
With little to no progress, cross-complainants terminated
cross-defendants on December 9, 2021, with the work remaining incomplete and
the workmanship remaining subpar.  Id., ¶19.  Cross-defendants breached the agreement by
failing to complete the project pursuant to the agreement, despite making
multiple assurances that it would be completed; by failing to complete the
project upon reinstatement; by doing work that was of subpar quality and
deviated from the agreed-upon plan.  Id.,
¶20.
Second cause of action for fraud
The
elements of fraud are:  “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App.
4th 170, 184 (citation omitted).  “The
elements of promissory fraud . . . are: (1) a promise made regarding a material
fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent
not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive or
induce the promise to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the
promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting
damage to the promise.”  Rossberg v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1498.  Promissory fraud must be alleged with
particularity.  Id.  “The particularity demands that a plaintiff
plead facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’”  Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469 (citation omitted).
The FACC alleges that at the time
that the parties entered into the agreement, cross-defendant Song, individually
and as authorized representative of the remaining cross-defendants, represented
that the project would be complete within three months of starting
construction.  FACC, ¶24.  The misrepresentation was made both orally
and in writing on March 16, 2021.  Id., ¶25.  At the time cross-defendants made the
misrepresentation, cross-defendants knew that the project could not be
completed in a timely fashion within three months.  The scope of work of said project included
demolition, rebuild, fence installation, stucco repair, painting, water heater
repair, gutter installation, siding replacement.  Even the most ambitious contractor would know
or should have known that a three-month timeline for a project of this
magnitude is highly unlikely if not impossible. 
Id., ¶26.  Despite this knowledge,
cross-defendants chose to make material misrepresentations to
cross-complainants as described.  Id., ¶27.  At no time were cross-complainants advised of
cross-defendants’ intentions as described. 
Id., ¶28.  Cross-defendants
intended for cross-complainants to rely on their promises as stated in the
agreement as well as orally, to induce them to make payments per the
agreement.  Id., ¶29.  Cross-complainants reasonably relied on the
representations as they were not experts in the field of construction.  Their priority was to complete the project as
quickly as possible in order to have a habitable home for their family and
cross-defendants took advantage of this knowledge in order to promise an
impossible timeline so that cross-complainants would enter into the agreement
and make payments.  Id., ¶30. 
Cross-defendants argue that
cross-complainants fail to plead specific facts showing fraud as to paragraphs
26, 28, 29.  
In opposition, cross-defendants
argue that the allegations are sufficient and that they have pled with the
requisite particularity.
The Court finds that the
allegations are sufficient, and that cross-complainants have pled with the
requisite particularity as to the representation (how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered).  The FACC also pleads
ultimate facts as to the elements. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
Third cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation
The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance
of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the
misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages. Where the defendant makes
false statements, honestly believing that they are true, but without reasonable
ground for such belief, he may be liable for negligent misrepresentation, a
form of deceit.  B.L.M. v. Sabo &
Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834. 
A plaintiff must allege what was said, by whom, in what manner (i.e.,
oral or in writing), when, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, under
what authority to bind the corporation. 
See Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25
Cal. App. 4th 772, 782.
The FACC alleges the same as under
the second cause of action.
Cross-defendants argue the same as
under the second cause of action, that paragraphs 36, 37, and 40 are conclusory.
The Court finds that the
allegations are sufficient, and that cross-complainants have pled with the
requisite particularity as to the representation.  The FACC also pleads ultimate facts as to the
elements.  
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Strike
Cross-defendants request that the
Court strike paras. 32 and 42 for punitive damages and prayer for punitive
damages.
The Court notes that the motion to
strike was improperly combined with the demurrer, and not filed on its
own.  The Court will nonetheless consider
it.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
Cross-defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient.
In opposition, cross-complainants
argue that the allegations are sufficient to support punitive damages based on
the allegations of fraud.
While the claim for fraud supports
an award of punitive damages, the claim of negligent misrepresentation will not.  In Tri-Delta Engineering, Inc. v.
Insurance Co. of North America (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 752, 759 [146 Cal.Rptr.
14, 18] it was observed that “Punitive damages are not recoverable for
negligent misrepresentation (see 23 Cal.Jur.3d, Damages, s 125, p. 250, and
cases cited therein); …”
The motion to strike is DENIED as
to paragraph 32 in the fraud cause of action, but is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to paragraph 42 in the negligent misrepresentation cause of action.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
second and third causes of action in the FACC.
The motion to strike is DENIED as
to paragraph 32 in the fraud cause of action, but is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to paragraph 42 in the negligent misrepresentation cause of action
Cross-defendants are ordered to
file an answer within twenty days.
Cross-complainants are ordered to
give notice of ruling. 