  Case Number:  21STCV35730    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
10, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  April 29, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus Embassy, Los Angeles v. Mutiu
Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV35730
 





















 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
      


 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Swift Petrochemicals, Inc., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus
Embassy, Los Angeles
 
I.          INTRODUCTION 
 
This is a breach of contract case concerning real
property.  On September 28, 2021,
Plaintiff, The Redeemed Christian Church of God-Jesus Embassy Los Angeles,
filed a complaint against Defendants, Swift Petrochemicals, Inc. (“Swift”) and
Mutiu Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti (“Etti”). 
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) alleging causes of action for: 1) Breach of Contract, 2) Promissory
Estoppel, 3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
4) Declaratory Relief, 5) Constructive Trust, and 6) Fraud.  Etti resides in Lagos, Nigeria. 
 
On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff requested the availability
of Swift’s person most qualified (PMQ)for deposition.  After Swift did not respond, Plaintiff noticed
Etti’s deposition as Swift’s PMQ for October 25, 2023.  The deposition was to take place remotely at
10:00 a.m. The deposition notice included a request for production of documents
on thirty-three categories. 
 
Five days prior to the scheduled deposition, Defendants
filed an intent to move for a protective order. 
After meet and confer efforts did not resolve the issues, on October 23,
2023, Defendants filed the motion.   Defendants seek monetary sanctions against
Defendants.  Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
 
 
 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).)  The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)  The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
seek a protective order barring Plaintiff from taking by videoconference the
oral deposition of Etti in his capacity as Swift’s PMQ.  The motion is based on the following reasons:
(1) the deposition notice is irregular, (2) power outages in Nigeria and technological
limitations present challenges to deposition via videoconference (3) producing
the demanded documents at the time of the deposition is burdensome, and (4) the
scheduled time of the deposition is annoying, embarrassing, or oppressive.  The Court addresses each basis in turn.
 
            1.
Irregular Deposition Notice
 
            If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of
its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.230.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff improperly designated Etti as Swift’s PMQ.  This argument lacks merit.  On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel asked
defense counsel for dates to take the deposition of Swift’s PMQ and whether
Etti would be designated as the PMQ.  (Lewin
Decl., Ex. 3.)  Defense counsel did not initially
respond.  On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel pressed defense counsel for an answer. 
(Lewin Decl., Ex. 4.)  On June 22,
2023, defense counsel stated, “We can do August 17 and August 21 for Mr. Etti.
Our clients are 8 hours ahead so we suggest a morning time.”  (Id.) 
Contrary to Defendants’ position, defense counsel, not Plaintiff,
designated Etti as the PMQ.  In Reply, Defendants
argue this message does not suggest a waiver of Swift’s right as the deponent
to designate its PMQ.  However, defense
counsel’s email is susceptible to only one reasonable interpretation.  Defendants were asked if Etti would be
designated as Swift’s PMQ and when that person could be deposed.  In response, defense counsel provided two
dates (August 17 and August 21) for Etti. 
The deposition notice complies with the Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.230.[1]
 
            2. Power
Outages and Technological Limitations
 
            Defendants next attempt to resist a deposition by
videoconference on the grounds that “power supply in Nigeria is notoriously
unreliable” and “because of technological limitations, the streaming of the
deposition can not [sic] be guaranteed to run smoothly.”  (Mot. p. 7.) 
This argument also lacks merit. 
As Plaintiff points out, there is no evidence that a videoconference
deposition cannot be conducted in Nigeria. 
This is not a valid basis for a protective order.
 
            3. Document
Production 
 
            The
deposition notice demands production of thirty-three documents via electronic
service.  Defendants argue producing the
documents would be burdensome because none of the documents are electronically
stored.  However, the Court is not
persuaded that Defendants’ purported challenges with producing physical
documents via electronic means may alone serve as a valid basis for resisting the
noticed deposition.  Defendants further represent
that “no one is trying to deprive plaintiff the opportunity to depose any party.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  But a review of the timeline of events suggests
otherwise.  Plaintiff properly noticed
the deposition on September 8, 2023.  This
was Plaintiff’s third attempt at noticing the deposition. Defendants did not
raise any issues with the noticed deposition until October 20, 2023—five days
prior to the deposition date.  Although
the Civil Discovery Statute permits the filing of a motion for a protective
order any time prior to, during, or after a deposition, Defendants’ timing suggests
an attempt “to deprive plaintiff the opportunity to depose” the PMQ of Swift. 
 
            4.  Timing of the Deposition
            
            Last,
Defendants argue that the time of the deposition constitutes annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression.  Plaintiff
noticed the deposition for 10:00 a.m. in Los Angeles.  Defendants reside in Lagos, Nigeria.  The parties disagree over the time difference
between Los Angeles and Lagos.  According
to the parties, the difference is either eight or nine hours.  As such, 10:00 a.m. in Los Angeles is either
6:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. in Lagos. 
Defendants argue a protective order is necessary for precisely this
reason: to protect Etti from being deposed late in the day without any
indication of the expected length of the deposition. 
 
            Plaintiff
contends the noticed time is consistent with defense counsel’s request.  In support, Plaintiff offers email
correspondence wherein Plaintiff asks when the deposition of Swift’s PMQ could
take place and defense counsel states, in relevant part, “Our clients are 8
hours ahead so we suggest a morning time.” 
(Lewin Decl., Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff contends
a 10:00 a.m. time falls squarely within the parties’ email exchange.  
 
            Defense
counsel’s response is somewhat ambiguous.  It is not clear whether “a morning time”
refers to the time zone in California or Nigeria.  Whatever the case, the ambiguity is
irrelevant.  As Plaintiff points out, when
meeting and conferring prior to the filing of this motion, defense counsel stated
“there is no way a convenient time can be found to bridge the time zone
difference.”  (Lewin Decl., Ex. 5.)  This is a marked departure from Defendants’
earlier representation about whether a videoconference deposition could be
conducted at all.  Nevertheless, the
Court finds that a time for a deposition which requires Mr. Etti to appear for
deposition beginning at 6:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. in Lagos is unduly
burdensome.  If Plaintiff wishes to
depose Swift’s PMQ by videoconference, the deposition must begin no later than 8:00
a.m. in Los Angeles, California.  Of
course, it can begin earlier.  The
parties should be able to work out the timing. 
If more than one day is needed because the clock runs past 6 pm in
Lagos, then Plaintiff may have several days to complete the deposition.  The parties may also agree to other
arrangements. 
            
            Monetary
Sanctions
                                                                                                                                     
            Both
parties request sanctions against the other. 
The Court declines to impose sanctions against any party.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion for a protective order is GRANTED in part.  Defendant Mutiu Olatunji Durosinmi-Etti is
ordered to appear for deposition as Defendant Swift Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s
Person Most Qualified within 30 days of this order.  The deposition must begin no later than 8:00
a.m. Pacific Standard Time.  Plaintiff may
have several days (no more than 4) with the foregoing start time to complete
Mr. Etti’s deposition.  
 
            If Mr. Etti
is not the PMQ, the parties are to meet and confer regarding this issue.  Furthermore, the parties are to meet and
confer regarding the production of documents noticed in the deposition.  
 
            The requests
for monetary sanctions are DENIED.   
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   January 10,
2024                               




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 


