 Case Number:  23STCV08715    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
10, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         iHeartMedia +
Entertainment, Inc. v. Orange County Flight Center 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08715
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Orange County Flight Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff iHeartMedia
+ Entertainment, Inc.
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach
of contract action.  On April 19, 2023,
Plaintiff, iHeartMedia + Entertainment, Inc., filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Orange County Flight Center, Inc., for (1) Breach of Part
Written/Part Oral Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit, and (3) Open Book Account.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant asked Plaintiff
to run radio advertisements.  They agreed
upon advertising schedules (orally and/or in writing) and a Media plan.  Plaintiff issued an Order Confirmation.[1]  Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Plaintiff
was to run the advertisements and send Defendant invoices, and Defendant would
pay Plaintiff for the same.  Plaintiff
performed all conditions under the Agreement. 
However, Defendant refused to make payment.  This action followed. 
 
            On June 16,
2023, Defendant filed this Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
 
            Plaintiff
filed an Opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
“The primary function of a
pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th
203, 240.) 
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual
allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether
“the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause
of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read
passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we
read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly
pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been
taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Defense counsel has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement.¿ (Declaration of Karo G. Karapetyan, CIV-140.)¿¿¿¿ 
            
            Analysis
 
            Defendant argues each cause of
action fails to state facts sufficient to state a claim.  The Court addresses each argument in turn.
 
            1.  First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
            The essential elements of a breach
of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a valid contract between
a plaintiff and a defendant, (2) the plaintiff’s performance, (3) the
defendant’s unjustified failure to perform, and (4) damages to the plaintiff
caused by the defendant’s breach.¿ (See CACI No. 303.) 
 
            Defendant demurs to the breach of
contract claim on the following grounds: (1) the Complaint does not allege Plaintiff’s
offer and Defendant’s acceptance of the agreement, and (2) there is no contract
because the parol evidence rule bars inclusion of prior oral agreements between
the parties.  
 
            Offer and Acceptance 
                        
            Defendant argues the second page of
the Order Confirmation is an “offer sheet” rather than a contract.  In support, Defendant points to the sections
1.1.1 and 1.1.2 which, in Defendant’s estimation, invite acceptance by either “pay[ment]
in advance for the distribution of advertising” or (2) execution of a
collateral written agreement for iHeart to “extend credit” to OCFC.”  (Mot., p. 4.) 

 
Defendant’s
argument fails for two reasons.  First and
foremost, offer and acceptance are not essential elements for stating a claim
for breach of contract.  Rather, at the
pleading stage, the elements of this claim are the existence of a valid
contract, performance, breach, and damages resulting from the breach.  (CACI No. 303.)  The existence of a valid agreement implies
offer and acceptance.  Second,
Defendant’s alternative interpretation of the contract is at odds with the express
terms of sections 1.1.1 and 1.1.2, which state:
 
1. PAYMENT 
1.1. Advertiser agrees to pay in
advance for the distribution of advertising covered by this contract
(collectively “transmissions”) unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing. 
1.2. If Station has extended
credit, Station shall render invoices monthly. Payment by Advertiser is due
within 30 days unless invoice is sent to agency or buying service, then net
payment is due within 45 days. Past due accounts shall be charged interest at
the rate of 1% per month (12% annual percentage rate) or, if less, the highest
rate allowed by applicable law, from the date of the invoice. If Advertiser
notices any error on an invoice, Advertiser must contact Station in writing
within 7 days of the invoice date, stating the invoice number, amount and
description of alleged error, and including any supporting documentation as may
be required by Station. All invoice charges will be considered valid if no
written dispute from the Client is received by Station within the 7 day period.
 
(Complaint, Ex. A,
§§ 1.1.1-1.1.2.)  The foregoing language
does not support Defendant’s argument re: invitation.  Rather, sections 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 state the terms
of the agreement between the parties.  The
Complaint alleges Defendant’s acceptance of the agreement.  “Subsequently, advertising schedules were
agreed upon (orally and/or in writing) and a Media Plan and an Order
Confirmation were issued by Plaintiff.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 6, emphasis added.) 
Defendant’s interpretation does not carry the day at this stage in the
proceedings.  Acceptance of the agreement
is sufficiently pled.
 
            Parol Evidence Rule   
 
            Defendant next argues the parol
evidence rule and the express terms of the Order Confirmation show that a
contract cannot exist.  “The parol
evidence rule is codified in Civil Code section 1625 and Code of Civil
Procedure section 1856.  [Citation.]  It generally prohibits the introduction of any
extrinsic evidence, whether oral or written, to vary, alter or add to the terms
of an integrated written instrument.” (Casa Herrera, Inc. v. Beydoun (2004)
32 Cal.4th 336, 343 [cleaned up].)  At
the pleading stage, the demurring party is required to demonstrate that
contractual language supporting its position is so clear that parol evidence
would be inadmissible to refute it.  (See,
e.g., Palacin v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 855, 863 [applying
general principles of contract interpretation to an insurance policy and
stating, “an insurer moving for a demurrer based on insurance policy language
must establish conclusively that this language unambiguously negates beyond
reasonable controversy the construction alleged in the body of the complaint.
[Citation.]  To meet this burden, an
insurer is required to demonstrate that the policy language supporting its
position is so clear that parol evidence would be inadmissible to refute it. [Citation.]
Absent this showing, the court must overrule the demurrer and permit the
parties to litigate the issue in a context that permits the development and
presentation of a factual record, e.g., summary judgment or trial.”].)   
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges that the
Agreement between the parties is written and oral.  (See Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Further, Section 7.6 of the Order
Confirmation unambiguously states: “This contract and any applicable written
credit agreement, agency commission arrangement and/or merchandising
arrangement contains the entire agreement between the parties
relating to the subject matter in it, and no modification of its terms
shall be effective unless in writing signed by both parties.”  (Complaint, Ex. A, § 7.6, emphasis added.)  Thus, Defendant is correct that the oral
portion of the agreement is barred by the parol evidence rule, unless an
exception applies, and cannot be considered as part of the contract between the
parties.  
 
Moreover, the
Complaint fails to identify and allege the terms of the oral agreement. The
effect of the foregoing renders the breach of contract claim uncertain.  Plaintiff cannot allege that the contract
between the parties is composed of written and oral agreements when the express
terms of the Order Confirmation directly provide that the Order Confirmation contains
the entire agreement.  
 
            2. 
Second Cause of Action for Quantum Meruit
 
            “The requisite elements of quantum
meruit are (1) the plaintiff acted pursuant to ‘an explicit or implicit request
for services’ by the defendant and (2) the services conferred a benefit on the
defendant. [Citation.]” (Port Medical Wellness, Inc. v. Connecticut General
Life Insurance Company (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 153, 180.)  
 
            The Complaint states a claim for
quantum meruit.  As alleged, Defendant indicated
a desire for Plaintiff to run various radio advertisements for Defendant; Plaintiff
performed.  (Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Liberally construed, Plaintiff conferred a
benefit to Defendant by running advertisements for Plaintiff.  The Second Cause of Action is sufficiently
pled.
 
            3. 
Third Cause of Action for Open Book Account
 
            A book account is a written record
of the credits and debts between parties to a contract. The
contract may be oral, in writing, or implied by the parties’ words and conduct.
A book
account is “open”
if entries can be added to it from time to time.  (CACI No. 372, emphasis added.)
            
            To establish a cause of action for
open book account, the following elements must be satisfied: (1) plaintiff and
defendant had financial transactions, (2) plaintiff kept an account of the
debits and credits involved in the transactions, (3) defendant owes plaintiff
money on the account, and (4) the amount of money that the defendant owes the
plaintiff.  (State Comp. Ins. Fund v. ReadyLink Healthcare, Inc.
(2020) 50 Cal. App. 5th 422, 449; CACI No. 372.)  A book account is “open”
if a balance remains due on this account.  (Interstate Group
Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan & Co. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d
700, 708.) 
 
             Defendant argues the open book account fails
because there was no contract.  Given
that the Complaint does not state a cause of action for breach of contract
because the existence of a contract is not sufficiently pled, Plaintiff’s common
count claim for an open book account similarly fails.  
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly, Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is
OVERRULED.  The Demurrer to the First and
Third Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.  Leave
to amend is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file its First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is ordered to serve and file its responsive
pleading within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended pleading.
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   January 10,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


