  Case Number:  22SMCV00451    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Falcon, LLC v. 8210 S. Western
Ave 26, LLC



Case No.:                    22SMCV00451


Complaint Filed:                   4-24-20




Hearing Date:            8-1-24 


Discovery C/O:                     3-28-24




Calendar No.:            12


Discover Motion C/O:          4-15-24




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             3-5-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGEMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants/Cross-Complainants
8210 S. Western Ave 26, LLC; Mama Moti, LLC; YHK 18, LLC; Javid Somekh and
Yehezkel Kashanian 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Falcon Enterprises. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants/Cross-Complainants 8210 S. Western Ave 26,
et al.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED as to the Cross-Complaint, and
to the Complaint. Defendants/Cross-Complainants do not meet their burden to
show there is no triable issue of material fact as to the Cross-Complaint. Defendant/Cross-Complainants
do not meet their burden to show that one or more the elements of the FAC
cannot be met, or a defense thereto.
 
            Defendant’s objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and
10 are SUSTAINED.  
 
            Plaintiff’s untimely Request for Judicial Notice is
DENIED.  While the Court could potentially
take judicial notice of the existence of some of the government records, and
possibly their legal effect, the Court could not take judicial notice the truth
of any facts stated therein.     
 
REASONING
            “[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.’ [Citation.]” (Behnke v. State Farm General Ins. Co.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1463; see also Nalwa v. Cedar Fair, L.P.
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1153–1154.) “A plaintiff moving for summary judgment
establishes the absence of a defense to a cause of action by proving ‘each
element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on that cause of
action.’ [Citation.] The plaintiff need not, however, disprove any affirmative
defenses alleged by the defendant. [Citation.] Once the plaintiff's burden is
met, the burden of proof shifts to the defendant ‘to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.’ [Citation.] In meeting this burden, the defendant must present
‘specific facts showing’ the existence of the triable issue of material fact.”
(City of Monterey v. Carrnshimba (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1081.) 
 
            “The
court's assessment of whether the moving party has carried its burden—and
therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of the
opposing party's papers.  Therefore,
the burden on the motion does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is
not, contained in the opposing papers.” (Emphasis added) (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden].)   
 
            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read. (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts
as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue of
material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of
the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
 
I.               
Western fails to meet is burden to show it is
entitled to summary judgment or summary adjudication of its claims in its Cross-Complaint.
 
            “A
plaintiff ...has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (p)(1).)  A moving Plaintiff
or Cross-Complainant does not bear the burden of disproving a defendant’s
affirmative defenses or cross-claims to succeed on a motion for summary
judgment. (See Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens Mut. Cas. Co.
(2009) 170 Cal.App. 4th 554, 564 [“Plaintiffs initial burden of proof in moving
for summary judgment, however, did not include disproving any affirmative
defenses asserted by defendants”].)
 
            “Each of
the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement
may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying
the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd., (b)(1).)     A breach of commercial lease cause of action is essentially a
cause of action for breach of contract which “requires pleading of a contract,
plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's breach[,]
and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom” (Munoz v. MacMillan (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 648, 655.)
 
            Defendants/Cross-Complainants
8210 S. Western Ave 26, LLC, Mama Moti, LLC, YHK 18, LLC, Javid Somekh and
Yehezkel Kashanian (collectively “Western”) argue they are entitled to Summary
judgment on their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants Falcon
(“Falcon”), Rami Varrdi (“Vardi”), David Zemach (“Zemach”), and Yaniv Shlomof
(“Shlomof”) (collectively “Falcon”).  The
separate statement makes the conclusory statement that “It is an undisputed
material fact that per the terms and conditions of the LEASE, [Falcon] is in
default for failing to make the agreed upon lease payments which should have
begun on or about April 25, 2022.” (SSUF, ¶¶ 26–29.) The separate statement
does not point to any evidence to support these facts, which is grounds to deny
the motion alone under CCP § 437c(b)(1). 

 
            Western
submits a declaration from 8210 S. Western Ave 26, LLC Managing Member Javid
Somekh (“Somekh”) which declares “Since April 25, 2021, and continuing to the
present, FALCON has failed to pay the monthly lease payments that they are
obligated to pay, and/or guaranteed, under the LEASE. The failure of FALCON to
make the agreed monthly lease payments under the LEASE constitutes a breach of
the LEASE.” (Somekh Decl., at p. 7:17–24.)  There is no foundation shown to support that
statement or how Somekh knows it to be true. Somekh does not reference any
evidence to support this statement in the declaration. 
 
“Supporting ...declarations shall be made by a person on
personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show
affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in
the affidavits or declarations.”  (CCP
473c(d).)  Declarations based on
information and belief are insufficient to satisfy the burden of the moving
party.  (Lopez v. University Partners
(1977) 54 Cal.4th 1117, 1124. 
            
“[A] boilerplate sentence, ‘If called as a witness I could
and would competently testify under oath to the above facts which
are personally known to me,” is not sufficient to establish personal
knowledge. (Citation.) ‘Where the facts stated do not themselves show it, such
bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming value and should be ignored.’
”).” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 168–169) 
 
            Western’s
cause of action for breach of guaranty is based on the first cause of action
for breach of commercial lease and since the breach element was not proven by
supporting evidence, the motion for summary judgment as to the second cause of
action must be denied as well. 
            
            Western’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary Adjudication, as to
the Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
II.            
Defendant Western’s Motion for Summary Judgment as
to the FAC
 
            Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication,
he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if
not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(o)(2).) A
defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be
established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the
claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)
Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove the existence of a
triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary adjudication in
favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
            “The burden on a defendant moving for summary judgment
based upon the assertion of an affirmative defense is different than the burden
to show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action cannot be
established. Instead of merely submitting evidence to negate a single element
of the plaintiff's cause of action, or offering evidence such as vague or
insufficient discovery responses that the plaintiff does not have evidence to
create an issue of fact as to one or more elements of his or her case the
defendant has the initial burden to show that undisputed facts support each
element of the affirmative defense. If the defendant does not meet this burden,
the motion must be denied.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 467–468.)
 
            “In general, the opposing party may not rely on the
opposing party's own pleadings (even if verified) to oppose the motion. Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p); Roman v BRE Props., Inc. (2015) 237 CA4th
1040, 1054, 188 [plaintiff must show “specific facts” to defeat defendant's
summary judgment motion and may not rely on allegations of complaint].). A
plaintiff may rely on the plaintiff's pleadings to resist a summary judgment
motion if the defendant's motion is based on the legal insufficiency of the
plaintiff's claims as alleged. Hand v Farmers Ins. Exch. (1994) 23 CA4th
1847, 1853, 29 CR2d 258.” (Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Before Trial
§ 13.24 (2023).)
 
            As a preliminary matter, whether the SAC is the operative
pleading or not, the Court may hear this Motion based on the FAC since no new
facts are alleged in the SAC, and thus the SAC does not substantially affect
the nature of the summary judgment motion. (See National Grange of Order of
Patrons of Husbandry v. California Guild (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 1130, 1148 [holding
that a motion for summary judgment can move forward based on a SAC that was not
the operative pleading because the TAC was not materially different than the
SAC].) The only difference between the two pleadings is the breach of contract
claim addition in the SAC, so this claim will not be adjudicated in this
motion. 
 
a.    
Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation
Causes of Action 
 
            The elements of an intentional misrepresentation claim
are: “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was
true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the
representation was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the
representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant
intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably
relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the
plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor
in causing that harm to the plaintiff.” (Manderville v. PCG&S Group,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498.)
 
            “The elements of negligent misrepresentation are similar
to intentional fraud except for the requirement of scienter; in a claim for
negligent misrepresentation, the plaintiff need not allege that the defendant
made an intentionally false statement, but simply one as to which he or she
lacked any reasonable ground for believing the statement to be true” (Bains
v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 445, 454.)
 
            “The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. v. FSI, Financial Solutions, Inc. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1559,
1573.)
 
            Western argues it is undisputed that Falcon “cannot prove
that WESTERN intended to defraud FALCON or otherwise concealed that the SUBJECT
PROPERTY allegedly did not comply with the building codes, applicable laws,
covenants or restrictions of record, regulations and ordinances,” which the
Court understands is intended to negating the fourth element of Intentional
Misrepresentation. (Motion, p. 24.) However, in the separate statement, none of
the undisputed facts associated with this argument point to any evidence to
support the argument.  Again, the
separate statement is not organized in a plain and concise manner pointing to
the elements and evidence that are allegedly undisputed. (See CCP §
437c(b)(1).) 
 
            Western argues Falcon cannot prove that Western’s
“alleged misrepresentation was made without reasonable ground believing it to
be true”. (Motion, p. 24.) Western points to the fact that Falcon has allegedly
not provided a shred of evidence that Western intended to defraud Falcon or
that Western knowingly concealed facts about the Subject Property. Western’s
arguments are not persuasive because again no evidence is provided to show that
Falcon did not provide evidence or that they cannot provide evidence of the
issues stated above. The deficiency of the separate statement alone is grounds
to deny this motion, but the deficiency plus no evidence provided in support of
the arguments other than conclusory statements and one declaration are not
enough to meet the defendants burden on summary judgment. 
            
            b. Rescission based on Fraud and Failure of
Consideration Causes of Action
 
(b) A party to a
contract may rescind the contract in the following cases:
(1) If the
consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him, was
given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue
influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as to whom he
rescinds, or of any other party to the contract jointly interested with such
party.
(2) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party fails, in whole or in
part, through the fault of the party as to whom he rescinds.
Civ. Code, § 1689
 
            "A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages. Every element must be specifically pleaded. [citations
omitted]" (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
 
            “[T]he facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976)
57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) Fraud actions against corporations require the
plaintiff “to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However, the specificity
requirement is “relaxed when the allegations indicate that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy or
when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.)
 
            “Failure of consideration is the failure to execute a
promise, the performance of which has been exchanged for performance by the
other party.” (Taliaferro v. Davis (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 398, 410.)
 
            Western again argues that Falcon has no evidence to prove
their claims, but that is not the burden of Western on a motion for summary
judgment. Western must supply evidence, and a plain and concise separate
statement, pointing to the evidence that supports their argument that Falcon
cannot meet an element, or multiple elements, of their claims. Western fails in
meeting their burden since again conclusory statements without evidence will
not meet the Defendants burden on a motion for summary judgment.  
 
            Western argues that California law does not concern
itself with the adequacy of consideration, but under the statutory based cause
of action for Rescission of Contract based on failure of consideration or fraud
pursuant to pursuant to Civ. Code § 1689, the Court must consider the
consideration given, or not given,. Thus, the Court does not find this argument
persuasive.
 
a.    
Unjust Enrichment Cause of Action
 
            Western
argues that Unjust Enrichment is not a separate cause of action recognized by
California, and furthermore the cause of action is duplicative of other causes
of action without specifying which causes of action in particular. (Motion, p.
28.)
 
            The
Court agrees with Western, in part. There is no separate or independent cause
of action for Unjust Enrichment recognized by California. (See Sepanossian
v. National Ready Mix Company, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 192, 206 [As an
initial matter, [t]here is no cause of action in California labeled unjust
enrichment.]; City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
458, 477 [“There is no cause of action in California labeled “unjust
enrichment.”] 
 
However, regardless of what Falcon calls
it, Falcon may be stating a claim for restitution or quasi contract which can be
an independent cause of action, and would not be duplicative of other causes of
action. (See Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc.
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238.)The elements of a cause of action based on unjust
enrichment are simply stated as “receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of
the benefit at the expense of another.”]  Regardless, Western, does not provide any
evidence to show that Falcon cannot meet the elements of an unjust enrichment
based claim, and therefor does not meet their burden. 
 

Case
Name:  Falcon Enterprises, LLC v. 8210
S. Western Ave 26, LLC


Case No.:                    22SMCV00451


Complaint Filed:                   4-24-20




Hearing Date:            7-9-24 


Discovery C/O:                     3-28-24




Calendar No.:            5


Discover Motion C/O:          4-15-24




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             3-5-24


SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND
AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Falcon Enterprises,
LLCRESP.
PARTY:         Defendant 8210 S.
Western Ave 26, LLC TENTATIVE
RULING            Plaintiff Falcon Enterprises, LLC Motion for Leave to
File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s declaration in support of
the motion satisfies the requirements under CRC Rule 3.1324.  Plaintiff
identifies the amendments, their effect, the recently received information that
prompted the amendment, and attaches the proposed Second Amended Complaint to
the declaration. (Hanigan Decl., ¶¶3-7, Ex. 1.).  The proposed
amendment is timely, as the trial is scheduled for 3-5-25, and will not
prejudice the Defendants as no new facts are alleged. Plaintiff is ordered to file its proposed
SAC under separate cover forthwith.   
 


