 Case Number:  24SMCV01585    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Aspiration Partners, Inc. v. Socure
Inc., et al. 



Case No.:


24SMCV01585 


Complaint Filed:


4-3-24 




Hearing Date:


11-2-23 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


12


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO DISMISS OR STAY FOR INCONVENIENT
FORUM UNDER CCP §428.10. 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Socure, Inc.
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Aspiration
Partners, Inc. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
Socure Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss for inconvenient forum is GRANTED as to all
causes of action in Plaintiff Aspiration Partners, Inc.’s Complaint. 
 
REASONING
            “In
California, the procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a motion to
stay or dismiss for forum non conveniens pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 410.30 and 418.10, but a motion based on a forum selection clause is a
special type of forum non conveniens motion.” 
(Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349,
358 [contractual clause wherein defendant “expressly submitted to the
jurisdiction of the State of California and United States Federal court sitting
in the City of Los Angeles, California” was not a mandatory forum selection
clause].)  “The factors that apply
generally to a forum non conveniens motion do not control in a case involving a
mandatory forum selection clause.  Where
there is a mandatory forum selection clause, the test is simply whether
application of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the clause is usually
given effect. Claims that the previously chosen forum is unfair or inconvenient
are generally rejected.  A court will
usually honor a mandatory forum selection clause without extensive analysis of
factors relating to convenience.”  Quanta
Computer Inc. v. Japan Communications Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 438, 445
[holding mandatory forum selection clause designating California as forum for
Japanese and Taiwanese companies’ contractual dispute was enforceable, but
trial court acted within its discretion in granting motion to dismiss based on
traditional forum non conveniens grounds because neither company nor the
contract in dispute had any nexus or relationship to California].)  
 
            “[T]he
existence of a contractual forum selection clause requires a court to decline
jurisdiction under Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30, absent a showing
that enforcement would be unfair or unreasonable.” (Furda v. Superior Court
(1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 418, 424–425.) “[A] phrase such as “shall be litigated”
generally has been construed to indicate that the forum selection clause is
mandatory.” (Korman v. Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th
206, 215–216.) A forum selection clause is reasonable, and, therefore,
enforceable, if it: (1) “has a logical connection with at least one of the
parties or their transaction,” and (2) the selected forum is not “unavailable
to [the plaintiff] or unable to accomplish substantial justice.” (Korman,
supra 32 Cal. App. 5th at p. 216.) “[N]either inconvenience nor
additional expense in litigating in the selected forum are part of the test of
unreasonability.” (Cal-State Business Products & Services, Inc. v. Ricoh
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1666, 1679, as modified (Feb. 4, 1993).)
            The party opposing
enforcement of a forum selection clause bears the burden of proving that the
clause should not be enforced. (See Valentino & Smith, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 496.) “That burden, however, is reversed when
the claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California
statutes. In that situation, the party seeking to enforce the forum selection
clause bears the burden to show litigating the claims in the
contractually-designated forum “will not diminish in any way the substantive
rights afforded ... under California law.” (Emphasis added.) (Verdugo v.
Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147.)
I.               
Existence of an Enforceable Forum Selection
Clause
 
            Defendant
Socure, Inc (“Socure”) shows that the parties agreed to a forum selection
clause within the 11-15-18 Software License Agreement (“SLA”) which stated:
 
Any and all actions brought to enforce this Agreement or resolve any
dispute arising out of this Agreement must be brought exclusively in the
federal or state courts having jurisdiction in New York, New York, and each
party hereby consents to and agrees to submit to the exclusive personal
jurisdiction and venue of such courts. 
 
(Taketa Deel., Ex. A, SLA § 10.5.)
            Socure shows that the
12-17-21 Amendment No. 1 to the SLA (the “Amendment” or “New SLA”) incorporated
the forum selection provision from the SLA. (See Taketa
Deel., Ex. C, Amendment § 6.) Plaintiff Aspiration Partners, Inc. (“API”)
argues there is an inconsistency or conflict between the SLA and the Amendment
and thus by the terms of Amendment, the forum selection clause from the SLA is
inoperable, and must be enforced where the Amendment was signed and agreed
to—in California. (See Id., Amendment §§ 6, 7.)
            Section
6 and 7 of the Amendment, or New SLA as API calls it, does confirm that the
parties intended for the Amendment to incorporate some, but not all, of the
terms from the SLA, but only those terms that are in “conflict or
inconsistency” between the Amendment and the SLA are thus governed by the
Amendment. The Amendment does not contain a forum selection clause, and thus
there is no conflict or inconsistency with the original SLA forum selection. If
the Amendment discussed forum selection, or stated a different forum, or
expressly stated the Amendment does not include a forum selection clause, then
there would be conflict or inconsistency between agreements. However, the Amendment
and SLA have no conflict regarding the New York forum selection, and were not
specifically modified and amended. Section § 6 of the Amendment states “all
terms, provisions, requirements, and specifications contained in the [SLA]
remain in full force and effect.” This includes the forum clause in Section
10.5. Therefore, the forum selection clause is still applicable.
            Both parties are
sophisticated businesses that chose to execute the agreement. Even if API
alleged this was a contract of adhesion, which it does not, the forum selection
clause will be upheld. (See Intershop Communications v. Superior Court
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191, 202 [“Plaintiff had full notice that he was
agreeing to Hamburg as the place of trial, even though he may have chosen not
to read the four-page contract. We conclude as a matter of law that no basis
exists for denying enforcement of the forum selection clause.”].)
            API argues the forum
selection clause is not broad enough to cover the tort claims for fraudulent inducement
and negligent misrepresentation. API argues their tort claims are related to
the signing of the Amendment, not to the SLA, or Amendment, themselves.  Whether a forum selection clause encompasses
tort claims is a question of contract interpretation. Cal-State Bus. Prod.
& Servs., Inc. v. Ricoh (1993) 12 Cal. App. 4th 1666, 1677 (1993) The
Agreement’s forum selection clause broadly provides that “[a]ny and all actions
brought to enforce this Agreement or resolve any dispute arising out of this
Agreement must be brought exclusively in the federal or state courts having
jurisdiction in New York, New York.” Taketa Decl., Ex. A, SLA § 10.5. The Court
agrees with Socure that the forum selection clase encompasses all of API’s
claims. 
II.        The Forum Selection
Clause is reasonable and enforceable.
            A
forum selection clause is reasonable, and, therefore, enforceable, if it: (1)
“has a logical connection with at least one of the parties or their
transaction,” and (2) the selected forum is not “unavailable to [the plaintiff]
or unable to accomplish substantial justice.” (Korman, supra 32
Cal. App. 5th at p. 216.) “[N]either inconvenience nor additional expense in
litigating in the selected forum are part of the test of unreasonability.” (Cal-State
Business Products & Services, Inc. v. Ricoh (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1666,
1679, as modified (Feb. 4, 1993).)
 
            Socure
argues the selected forum of New York has a logical connection with Socure
because at the time the agreement was signed between the parties Socure’s
principle place of business was New York, and Socure declares they continue to
conduct significant business in New York. (Taketa Decl., Ex. SLA p.1.) Furthermore,
Socure argues the parties selected New York to apply by agreeing to the SLA and
the Amendment which incorporated the SLA forum selection clause. 
 
            API
argues the clause is unreasonable and unfair because it would require API to
simultaneously litigate the breach of contract cause of action from its
complaint pursuant to the forum selection clause, and the tort causes of action
from the complaint in California because they are not subject to the forum
selection clause as analyzed above. Additionally, API argues that if they are
forced to litigate the breach of contract and declaratory relief causes of
action in New York they will lose their right to reciprocal attorneys’ fees
under California Civil Code § 1717. 
            The Court agrees with Socure.  This entire action will be dismissed based on
finding the forum selection clause covers all of API’s claims.  While Civil Code §1717 does reflect a “fundamental
public policy”, that policy is not being diminished by the enforcement of the forum
selection clause.  The Court agrees that
the indemnity clauses in the agreement are not unilateral attorney’s fee
clauses that would be subject to Section 1717.  While the invoice and payment terms clause provide
for recovery of collection costs, the application of that clause is not the claim
at issue in this case. There is no authority to support the view the court is
to consider a potential application of Section 1717 to a dispute to decide whether
or not to enforce an otherwise enforceable form selection clause that applies claims
unrelated to a hypothetical dispute over the recovery of attorney’s fees. The
Court agrees with Socure, that the authority cited by API all arise in the
context of applying a choice of law provision, not a forum selection clause,
and do not compel a different result.  