  Case Number:  22NWCV01445    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  C Acevado v. ABC Unified School District, et al.
(22NWCV01445)
This sexual assault case was filed on November 29, 2022.
Trial is set for February 24, 2025. The Court addresses two ex partes filed by
Plaintiff Anthony Acevedo and Defendant ABC Unified School District, in turn.
1)     
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application
Plaintiff Anthony Acevedo’s Motion to Consolidate is set for
hearing on May 6, 2025. Plaintiff now applies ex parte to advance the hearing
on the Motion to Consolidate to the earliest available date. 
Plaintiff argues good cause exists to advance the Motion to
Consolidate because the hearing is currently set after trial in both this case
and the proposed consolidated case, Delgado v. ABC Unified School District,
LASC Case No. 22NWCV01753. Plaintiff argues both cases involve allegations
against Defendant for failing to supervise and investigate Defendant Eduardo
Maese’s sexual assault of plaintiffs from the time period of 1986 to 1989.
Plaintiff argues both cases involve common issues of fact and law. Plaintiff
thus argues that advancing the Motion is necessary to avoid potentially
duplicative trials and to allow the parties to properly prepare for either
separate or consolidated trials. In prior meet and confers, Defendant Maese,
through counsel, has indicated he does not oppose consolidation.
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Advance the Motion to
Consolidate is DENIED.  Due to the
Court’s congested calendar, the Court is unable to advance the hearing to an
earlier date.  The parties are not
foreclosed from seeking a trial continuance in Dept. SE-F.  The Court also notes that no motion to
consolidate has been filed by Plaintiff. 

2)     
Defendant’s Ex Parte Application
Defendant ABC Unified School District’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two) is set for
hearing on September 16, 2025. Defendant now applies ex parte to advance the
hearing date on its Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to a date
prior to trial, or in the alternative, to continue trial. 
Defendant argues good cause exists to advance the Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses (“MTCF”) because the hearing is currently
set after trial, which violates the discovery cut-off deadline. Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two) is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence of
causation or apportionment of fault for Plaintiff’s claimed damages.
Alternatively, Defendant argues good causes exists to continue trial until
after the MTCF is heard on September 16, 2025, because discovery motions must
be heard at least 15 days prior to trial. Lead Counsel for Defendant will also
be engaged in a re-trial for another matter on February 24, 2025, the same date
as this matter’s trial. 
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s Ex Parte to the extent it asks
for a trial continuance after the September 16, 2025 MTCF hearing. Plaintiff
argues that a trial continuance until after the MTCF hearing is unreasonable
and unsupported by good cause.  Plaintiff would be prejudiced by a
continuance because a continuance would prolong Plaintiff’s emotional distress
inherent in this sensitive matter. Defendant would not be prejudiced—Defendant
has not shown why it did not propound its interrogatories earlier in the
litigation, and the parties have been conferring on further responses to the
disputed discovery. Plaintiff argues its Motion to Consolidate should be heard
before trials in both cases, and a trial continuance to September 2025 would
“effectively moot the consolidation motion and risk inconsistent outcomes
through separate trials.” Plaintiff asks the court to advance the hearing
on its Motion to Consolidate so that, if granted, the related cases would
proceed as a consolidated action on May 5, 2025—the trial date for Delgado v. ABC Unified School District. Plaintiff also requests the Court
to advance the hearing on the MTCF to preserve the potential consolidated trial
date on May 5, 2025, and deny Defendant’s application for a continuance beyond
this date.
Defendant’s Ex Parte Application to Advance the Hearing on
its Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two), or in the alternative, to Continue Trial is GRANTED, in part. Due to
the Court’s congested calendar, the Court is unable to advance the hearing to a
date before trial in accordance with the discovery cut-off deadlines. The Court
thus advances the hearing on the MTCF and will continue trial to a date
thereafter. The hearing on the MTCF is ADVANCED to this date and
CONTINUED to Tuesday, May 6, 2025, at 9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C, to be
heard with Plaintiff’s Motion to Consolidate. The parties are referred to
Department F to schedule a new trial date, taking into consideration that this
case will potentially be consolidated with Delgado v. ABC Unified School
District. The Court will confer with the parties to select a new final
status conference and trial date. Discovery and
all trial deadlines will track the new trial date. Moving
Party to give notice. 
 