 Case Number:  22AHCV00473    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 8, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         DAVID TSAO, an
individual, v. LA IMPACT CONSTRUCTION, LP, a California limited partnership;
IMPACT CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, a California corporation; HEATHER LIEN, an
individual; AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY, a California corporation;
and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00473
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER OF DISCHARGE, DEPOSIT, AND DISMISSAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Complainant American Contractors
Indemnity Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 6, 2024
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff
David Tsao’s claim that Defendants failed to provide complete and adequate
construction work on residential property located at 9606 Lower Azusa Road,
Temple City, California (“Subject Property”). Plaintiff filed this complaint on
July 19, 2022, alleging nine causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of express and implied warranties, (3) violation of Business and
Professions code, (4) negligence, (5) negligence per se, (6) fraud, (7)
disgorgement, (8) claim on contractor’s bond, and (9) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court will delay the ruling on this order until ACIC submits
the deposit as discussed at the hearing. After ACIC has submitted the deposit,
ACIC’s motion for an order discharging it from liability, dismissing it from
the present suit, and restraining any party from instituting any action against
it related to the bond is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            ACIC
moves for an order to be discharged from all lability pursuant to a $7,500
contractor’s license bond. On September 9, 2022, ACIC filed a cross-complaint
for interpleader regarding various claims on the bond at issue. In its
cross-complaint, ACIC alleges that the penal sum of the bond is $15,000 but
$7,500 is reserved for claims made by homeowners. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 5.) 
 
            Business and Professions Code section 7071.5 provides: “The contractor's bond required by
this article shall be executed by an admitted surety in favor of the State of
California, in a form acceptable to the registrar and filed with the registrar
by the licensee or applicant. The contractor's bond shall be for the benefit of
the following: [¶] (a) A
homeowner contracting for home improvement upon the homeowner's personal family
residence damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter by the licensee. [¶] (b) A property owner contracting
for the construction of a single-family dwelling who is damaged as a result of
a violation of this chapter by the licensee. That property owner shall only
recover under this subdivision if the single-family dwelling is not intended
for sale or offered for sale at the time the damages were incurred. [¶] (c) A person damaged as a
result of a willful and deliberate violation of this chapter by the licensee,
or by the fraud of the licensee in the execution or performance of a
construction contract. [¶] (d) An
employee of the licensee damaged by the licensee's failure to pay wages. [¶] (e) A person or entity,
including a laborer described in subdivision (b) of Section 8024 of the Civil Code, to which a portion of the compensation
of an employee of a licensee is paid by agreement with that employee or the
collective bargaining agent of that employee, damaged as the result of the
licensee's failure to pay fringe benefits for its employees . . ..”
 
            Business and
Professions Code section 7071.6, subdivision (b), provides: “Excluding the
claims brought by the beneficiaries specified in subdivision (a) of Section
7071.5, the aggregate liability of a surety on claims brought against a
bond required by this section shall not exceed the sum of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500). The bond proceeds in excess of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500) shall be reserved exclusively for the claims of the
beneficiaries specified in subdivision (a) of Section
7071.5. However, nothing in this section shall be construed so as to
prevent any beneficiary specified in subdivision (a) of Section
7071.5 from claiming or recovering the full measure of the bond
required by this section.”
 
            ACIC
provides that it is a mere stakeholder in this action. (Hayes Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
“Where the only relief sought
against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money
alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he
is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and
that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to
the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 386.5.)
 
            It
appears uncontroverted that ACIC is a mere stakeholder and should be subject to
dismissal once it deposits the bond amount. However, as of now, it is unclear
whether the required amount is $7,500. Pursuant to Business and
Professions Code section 7071.6, subdivision (b), $7,500 is the limit of
recovery unless the claim is brought pursuant to Business and Professions Code
section 7071.5. 
 
Here, ACIC provides: “By
operation of law, on January 1, 2016, the penal sum of the bond was increased
to $15,000.00, but $7,500.00 is reserved for claims made by homeowners pursuant
to Business and Professions Code section 7071.6.” (Hayes Decl. ¶ 5.) However, ACIC does not necessarily
establish that the $7,500 limit of section 7071.6 applies, or stated another
way, that the claims present are not made pursuant to section 7071.5. The issue
appears to be whether the required payment should be $7,500 or $15,000. The
court recognizes that ACIC brought a cross-complaint for interpleader, at least
in part, because there are various potential claims against it. However, it
appears that there is a possibility, at least, that Plaintiff’s claims as
alleged could fall under section 7071.5. 

            Thus, at the hearing on this
motion, ACIC is ordered to explain why the deposit total should be $7,500
rather than $15,000 to account for any claims applicable under section 7071.5. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The court will delay the ruling on this order until ACIC submits
the deposit as discussed at the hearing. After ACIC has submitted the deposit,
ACIC’s motion for an order discharging it from liability, dismissing it from
the present suit, and restraining any party from instituting any action against
it related to the bond is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 8, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court