 Case Number:  23AHCV02598    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
8, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         STEPHANIE JOHNSON
and WILLIAM POLLOCK, v. NANCY N. DALA, TRUSTEE OF THE NANCY N. DALA TRUST, and
ELIZABETH MUNOZ  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02598
 
 
 
ANTI-SLAPP
MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Nancy N. Dala and
Elizabeth Munoz
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 11, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to strike
Plaintiffs’ first and eighth causes of action. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Stephanie
Johnson and William Pollock (“Plaintiffs”) claim that they were unlawfully
evicted from property located at 138 Oaks Avenue, Monrovia, CA 91016.
Plaintiffs filed this complaint on November 7, 2023, alleging eight causes of
action for (1) unlawful eviction under California Tenant Protection Act, (2)
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act, (3)
unlawful retaliation in violation of public policy, (4) fraud, (5) violation of
Civil Code section 51, (6) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (7)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, and (8) abuse of process.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            Thus, Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ first and eighth causes of action is tentatively GRANTED.
 
            Defendants’
request for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
subdivision (c)(1), is granted for a total of $1,800. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1), provides: “A cause of action
against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be
subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the
plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim.” 
 
“As used in this section, ‘act in
furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes:
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest. (Code Civ. Proc. section 425.16, subd. (e).)
 
            “Section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1) requires the court
to engage in a two-step process. First, the court decides whether the defendant
has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity. The moving defendant's burden is to demonstrate that
the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of
the [defendant]'s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue,” as defined in the
statute. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a showing
has been made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a
probability of prevailing on the claim. Under section 425.16, subdivision
(b)(2), the trial court in making these determinations considers “the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.” (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
 
“In short, the statutory phrase
‘cause of action ... arising from’ means simply that the defendant's act
underlying the plaintiff's cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the
right of petition or free speech. In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point
is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant's
right of petition or free speech.” (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29
Cal.4th 69, 78, internal citations omitted.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ complaint pursuant to Civil Code
section 425.16. Specifically, Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ first cause
of action for unlawful eviction in its entirety and Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of
action for abuse of process in its entirety. 
 
            “The anti-SLAPP
statute does not insulate defendants from any liability
for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only provides
a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.
Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant
must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by
section 425.16.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384.) 
 
“At this first step, courts are to
‘consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the
defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for
liability. [citation] The defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged
claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily
defined category of protected activity.’” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.)
 
            “An unlawful
detainer action and service of notices legally required to file an unlawful
detainer action are protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16. [Citation.] ‘A cause of action arising from
such filing or service is a cause of action arising from protected activity.’ ”
(Newport Harbor Offices & Marina, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism
(2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 28, 45.) 
 
            Here, both Plaintiffs’ first and
eighth causes of action allege facts related to Defendants’ unlawful detainer
case. Plaintiffs’ first cause of action alleges that Defendants unlawful
detainer claim is a violation of the Tenant Protection Act. (Complaint ¶ 46.) Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action
alleges that Defendants’ unlawful detainer action is an abuse of process.
(Complaint ¶¶ 94-95.) Defendants have met their burden of demonstrating that
Plaintiffs’ first and eighth causes of action arise from protected activity. 
 
            Ordinarily,
an anti-SLAPP motion would proceed to the second step where “ ‘the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged claim based on
protected activity is legally sufficient and factually substantiated. The
court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts, must determine whether the
plaintiff's showing, if accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to
sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is stricken.’ ” (Newport
Harbor, supra, 23 Cal.App.5th at p. 49.) However, Plaintiffs have failed to
oppose the present motion.
 
            Thus, Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ first and eighth causes of action is tentatively granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Thus, Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ first and eighth causes of action is tentatively GRANTED.
 
            Defendants’
request for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
subdivision (c)(1), is granted for a total of $1,800. 
 
            Moving Party
to give notice of ruling. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 8, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court