 Case Number:  22AHCV01089    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 8, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE: July 16, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         JACKIE CHEN, an
individual, v. SUNNY HOA, an individual, and VAN HOAN WONG, an individual, and
DOES 1 to 100.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01089
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT DISCOVERY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Jackie Chen
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants
Sunny Hoa and Van Hoang Wong
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 14, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 24, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed.  
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
Plaintiff moves for an order permitting discovery into Defendants’
financial condition related to his claim for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Jackie
Chen’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that he was assaulted by Defendants Sunny Hoa and
Van Hoang Wong on August 26, 2020. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on
February 8, 2023, alleging four causes of action for (1) battery, (2) assault,
(3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) fraudulent conveyance
of real property. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order allowing discovery into
the financial condition of Defendants Sunny Hoa and Van Hoan Wong is GRANTED
and DENIED to all other persons.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order permitting discovery into Defendants’
financial condition related to his claim for punitive damages. 
 
            “No pretrial discovery by the plaintiff shall be permitted with respect
to the evidence referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) unless
the court enters an order permitting such discovery pursuant to this
subdivision. . . . Upon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate
affidavits and after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary,
the court may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise
prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the
supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has
established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294.” (Civ. Code
§ 3295, subd. (c).)
 
            “[W]e interpret
the words ‘substantial probability’ to mean ‘very likely’ or ‘a strong
likelihood’ just as their plain meaning suggests.” (Jabro v. Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
 
            In support
of his motion, Plaintiff argues that he has established a substantial
probability of prevailing on his battery claim and his fraudulence conveyance
claim. However, in support of his fraudulent conveyance claim, Plaintiff merely
provides the grant deed and provides “on information and belief” that Defendant
continues to live at the residence. (Chen Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff has failed to establish a
substantial probability of prevailing on his fraudulent conveyance claim. The
next issue is whether Plaintiff has established a substantial probability of
prevailing on his battery claim.
 
            “In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3295, subd. (a).)
“
‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
 
            Plaintiff
provides that on August 26, 2020, Defendants physically attacked him with their
fists and a bucket. (Chen Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff provides he was left injured and suffered
permanent hearing loss. (Id. ¶ 3.) Further, in their responses to
Plaintiff’s requests for admissions, Defendants separately admitted that they “commit[ed]
an assault upon Jackie Chen” on August 26, 2020. (Exhibits B and C.) Plaintiff
has demonstrated that there is a substantial probability he will prevail on his
claim for punitive damages based on malice. 
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order allowing discovery into
the financial condition of Defendants Sunny Hoa and Van Hoan Wong is granted.
 
            Defendants provide they are “presumptively” entitled to a
protective order. However, the case Defendants cite provides in full: “[W]here a party is
compelled in civil discovery to reveal financial information because the
information is relevant to the subject matter of a claim for punitive damages,
that party is, upon his motion, presumptively entitled to a protective order
that the information need be revealed only to counsel for the discovering party
or to counsel's representative, and that once so revealed, the information may
be used only for the purposes of the lawsuit.” (Richards v. Superior Court (1978)
87 Cal.App.3d 265, 273.) Defendants have not filed a motion for a protective
order. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order allowing discovery into
the financial condition of Defendants Sunny Hoa and Van Hoan Wong is GRANTED and
DENIED to all other persons.
 
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 8, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
