 Case Number:  24SMCV00032    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED; the motion to strike is
DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff alleges that it rented property from defendant and
paid a security deposit.  The parties
ultimately agreed to terminate the lease and there was a walkthrough, after
which plaintiff allegedly spent $5000 to make repairs.  After plaintiff vacated, plaintiff sought a
return of the security deposit and defendant refused.  Plaintiff sues for breach of contract,
violation of Civil Code section 1950.5, unfair competition, and fraud.  Defendant demurs and moves to strike the
punitive damages allegations and plaintiff opposes.
 
As to the contract, defendant contends that the contract is
not properly pled because the parts dealing with the security deposit are not
attached, quoted, or alleged with sufficient particularity.  However, it takes no crystal ball to
understand the nature of a security deposit and the law makes it clear that the
deposit must be returned to the tenant upon vacating the premises unless needed
to repair damage plaintiff caused, in which case an accounting is required.  There is enough pled here to go forward.  17200 is properly pled.  Refusing to return the security deposit is
unlawful.  That is enough.  And finally, the pleading is sufficient for
fraud.  Taking a security deposit with no
intent to return it at the conclusion of the lease is fraud in the
inducement.  Fraud in the inducement is
separate from the contract.  Ultimately,
plaintiff will need to prove more than a mere breach.  Breaching a contract—even intentionally—is
not fraud.  Plaintiff will need to prove
that at the time the contract was made (and hence the promise was made) that
defendant had no intention of fulfilling the promise.  That is a heavier lift, but not an impossible
one and not one that is properly tested on a pleading motion.
 
For the same reason, the motion to strike is without
merit.  The fraud cause of action will
support the punitive damages prayer. 
 
Defendant has 14 calendar days to answer.