  Case Number:  19STCV17360    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  T 19STCV17360 VEHANUSH GRADJYAN vs
BEST WESTERN
TENTATIVE RULINGS
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Reconsideration: Denied.  Plaintiff’s
Motion for CCP section 473(b) relief: Denied.
Plaintiff seeks an order under
CCP section 1008(a) and (c) to reconsider its order granting terminating
sanctions.  The order of terminating
sanctions was made on 4/18/2023.  Judgment
of dismissal was entered on 6/8/2023. 
This motion was filed on 10/18/2023. 
The court issued 19 page order granting the terminating sanctions.  Since the order granting terminating
sanctions, plaintiff did not file anything until 10/18/2023.  
A motion for reconsideration must
be made within 10 days after service of the notice of entry of the order or
ruling to be reconsidered. CCP § 1008(a). 
CCP section 1008(c allows a later reconsideration if there has been a
change in the law.  Neither provides the
relief sought by plaintiff.  The motion
was made 2 days short of 6 months from the order.  There has been no change in the law.
The motion for reconsideration is
denied.
Plaintiff also seeks to vacate
the court’s order of sanctions and dismissal based on “mistake. Inadvertence,
surprise, and/or neglect of plaintiff’s counsel per CCP section 473 for the
court's grant of terminating sanctions for violating the court order to respond
to discovery.  The discovery was served
in 9/14/2021.  It has never been
responded to. 
The delay in answering discovery is
consistent with the long and inexcusable history of delay in this case.  The complaint was filed on 5/17/2019 and
Trial was set 11/13/2020 with a Final Status Conference on 11/30/2020.  Between the 5/17/2019 filing of the complaint
and the 11/30/2020 FSC, a span of 17 months, nothing was filed by the plaintiff
with the court.  At the time of the Final
Status Conference, Mr. Janfaza appeared and represented that the defendants had
not been served.  The court vacated the
Trial and set an OSC re Failure to File Proof of Service of the summons and
complaint for 2/21/2021.  The court's
order of 11/30/2020 states that if proof of service has not been filed and
there is no showing of progress with regard to service, then the court may
dismiss the case.  Plaintiff was ordered
to give notice.
Between the FSC on 11/30/2020 and
2/21/2021, nothing was filed by plaintiff. 
There was no declaration of due diligence.  There was no proof of service.  Mr. Janfaza appeared and asked for additional
time to serve.  The matter was continued
to 4/13/2021 with the same order as before: if there is no showing of progress
with regard to service, then the court may dismiss the case.
On 4/6/2021, almost two years
after filing the complaint, Mr. Janfaza filed a declaration in which he
stated:  All Defendants have been served
in this matter. I had hoped for Defendants to be served earlier, and I
apologize that they have not been. I am looking into what happened in this
regard.  I am therefore filing this
Declaration in Response to the OSC.  I
apologize for any inconvenience to the Court and for wasting this honorable
Court’s time in this matter. I respectfully request that no sanction be imposed
and that the OSC be vacated, considering the circumstances.  In the alternative, I respectfully ask that
this Court continue the OSC hearing for 60 days.
 Oddly, the proof of service filed on 4/6/2021
shows proof of service on Best Western on CSC Lawyers in Sacramento on
1/26/2021, on CHM on 1/27/2021, and on Best Western Carriage Inn on 1/27/2021.  In other words, the service was completed
prior to the 2/2/2021 OSC in which Mr. Janfaza verbally represented to the
court that he needed more time to complete service of the defendants.  He did not file anything in writing in
response to the OSC.
Answers were filed on 4/12/2021
and 5/3/2021.
On 4/13/2021, Mr. Janfaza
appeared for the OSC re failure to file the proof of service.  He advised the court that he would proceed
with default if no response is filed. The court set an OSC re failure to enter
default judgment on 7/14/2021. Plaintiff was ordered to give notice.  However, once defendants appeared, no notice
was given by Mr. Janfaza.
On 7/13/2021, Mr. Janfaza filed a
declaration in which he states that all defendants have been served and that
CHM has answered.  He did not respond to
the OSC as to why no default was entered as to Best Western Carriage Inn
despite being served 6 months earlier, and did not mention the answer by Best
Western.
On 7/14/2021, the court held the
OSC re failure to enter default.  Mr.
Janfaza advised the court that Best Western had not filed a response and the
matter was continued to 8/13/2021. 
Plaintiff was ordered to give notice. 
Notice was still not given by plaintiff.
On 8/9/2021, Mr. Janfaza filed a
declaration in response to the OSC.  He
does not explain why there was no default filed against Best Western Carriage
Inn.  He does not mention the answer by
Best Western.  He asked the court to
grant another 60 day continuance.
On 8/13/2021 at the OSC, the
court notes there is still no response from Best Western Carriage Inn.  It was continued again to 10/21/2021.  Plaintiff was ordered to give notice.  Notice was not given for a third time despite
the court's orders.
On 10/21/2021, no attorney
appeared for plaintiff.  Defense counsel
appeared and the matter was continued to 12/20/2021.  Best Western Carriage Inn had still not
appeared or been defaulted.  This is 2
years and 5 months after the complaint was filed.
On 12/15/2021, Mr. Janfaza filed
a declaration and gave no explanation about why Best Western Carriage Inn had
not been defaulted or appeared.  He asked
for a 60 day continuance.
On 12/20/2021, at the OSC, Mr.
Janfaza asked for additional time to file a default against Best Western
Carriage Inn.  The matter was continued
to 3/23/2022 and plaintiff was to give notice. 
Yet again, no notice was given by plaintiff.
On 3/18/2022, Mr. Janfaza filed a
declaration in response to the OSC.  He
gave no explanation for why Best Western Carriage Inn had not been defaulted or
appeared.  He asked for another 60 day
continuance of the OSC.  Plaintiff was to
give notice.  Notice was not given by Mr.
Janfaza.
On 3/23/2022, Mr. Janfaza stated
that he needed more time.  The OSC was
continued to 6/29/2022  Plaintiff was to
give notice.  Notice was not given, again.
On 6/23/2022, now over 3 years
since the complaint was filed, Mr. Janfaza filed a declaration in response to
the OSC re failure to enter default.  His
declaration was a duplicate of his declaration on 3/18/2022.  He gave no explanation for why Best Western
Carriage Inn had not been defaulted or appeared.  He asked for another 60 day continuance of
the OSC. 
On 6/29/2022, counsel reported to
the court that they were meeting and conferring as to when defendant should or
should not be a part of this action.  The
OSC was continued to 9/19/2022.
On 9/14/2022, Mr. Janfaza filed a
declaration in response to the OSC re failure to enter default.  His declaration was a duplicate of his
declaration on 3/18/2022 and 6/23/2022. 
He gave no explanation for why Best Western Carriage Inn had not been
defaulted or appeared.  He asked for
another 60 day continuance of the OSC. 
On 9/19/2022, at the OSC,
plaintiff asked for more time to request entry of default.  The matter was continued to 12/1/2022.  Plaintiff was to give notice.  No notice was given despite multiple orders
to do so.
On 9/21/2022, the PI court
transferred that matter to an Independent Calendar Court and the matter was
assigned to Judge Watkins in Dept. T.  On
9/22/2022, Dept. T set an OSC re sanctions why default had not been entered and
setting an Informal Discovery Conference on 12/1/2022.
On 10/3/2022, defendants filed an
IDC request in which they disclosed that written discovery (Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production) had been
served on 9/15/2021.  The IDC statement
says:
"On September 15, 2021,
Defendant CHM Hotel's, served Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One (hereinafter, collectively
"Discovery Requests"), to Plaintiff. Defendant, Best Western
International, Inc. also served discovery requests, which, subject to the
pending dismissal of said entity, need no longer be considered as a subject of
discovery dispute. To date, Plaintiff has served objections only to the
Discovery Requests. Defense counsel sent a Meet and Confer correspondence, via
email, to Plaintiff's counsel on May 13, 2022, requesting for               substantive responses. A little
over a month later, on June 30, 2022, Defense counsel followed up with
Plaintiff's counsel, via email, on our request to meet and confer, however, received
no response. Thereafter, on July 5, 2022, having not received any response from
Plaintiff's counsel, Defense counsel scheduled an Informal Discovery
Conference, and on that same day, informed Plaintiff's counsel of same,
including instructions on briefing for the IDC. On July 14, 2022, Defense
counsel followed up with Plaintiff's counsel, via email, asking for Plaintiff's
medical records so that Defense counsel can evaluate Plaintiff's claims for
possible early resolution of the case. Defense counsel received no response to
this  request. On September 13, 2022,
Defense counsel followed up, via email, once more, on the request to meet and
confer on Plaintiff's objection-only submission to the Discovery Requests, yet
did not receive a response to said email. To date, despite Defense counsel's follow
up efforts to obtain substantive discovery responses and/or medical records, Plaintiff
has failed to do so."
The request is notable for its
recitation of multiple emails sent to meet and confer with no responses from
Mr. Janfaza. By this time, it was over 1 year since the discovery had been
served on plaintiff.
On 10/10/2022, defendant Best
Western was dismissed by stipulation.
On 11/21/2022, plaintiff filed a
CMC statement indicating that all defendants had been served, have appeared, or
been dismissed.
In the declaration filed by Mr.
Janfaza in this motion for reconsideration, he stated that on 11/21/2022, the
same day he filed his CMC statement, he was diagnosed with the flu and that his
illness was so severe, he missed Thanksgiving (which was 11/24/2022) with his
family, and was placed on medical leave through 1/30/2023.  Nonetheless, on 11/23/2022, the day before
Thanksgiving, Mr. Janfaza filed a declaration in response to the OSC.  He states that a notice and acknowledgement
had been signed on behalf of Carriage Inn Investors, LP.  There is no mention of Best Western Carriage
Inn and he asked for another 60 day continuance.  Notably, there is no mention of the facts set
forth in his current declaration (he was severely ill such that he would miss
Thanksgiving the next day and would be put on medical leave.)
On 12/21/2022, the court sent an
order as follows:
"Please take notice that at
the hearing on the CMC on 1/18/2023 at 8:30 a.m., it is the court’s intention
to dismiss all defendants who have not been served or who have been served but
no default entered -- for failure to prosecute. It will also be the intention
of the court to set this case for trial in July 2023. By then, the case will
have been pending for over 3 years. If there is a plan to schedule an MSJ,
please be advised that it will take about 4 months to obtain a hearing date so please
plan (now) accordingly to reserve a date. Once the trial is set, it is unlikely
to be continued unless exceptional good cause is shown due to the age of the
case. Failure to timely schedule an MSJ date will not be good cause."
The court erroneously stated that
the case would be over 3 years old; in fact, the case would be over 4 years
old.
On 1/3/2023, Mr. Janfaza signed
and filed a Case Management Statement. 
There was no mention of the outstanding discovery or any problems with
his health or being on medical leave in the section "Other Issues"
which allows the parties to raise issues to be discussed at the CMC, nor any
problems reaching his client.  
On 1/18/2023, the court held the
OSC and the IDC.  Mr. Janfaza appeared
for that hearing during the same period he indicated he was on medical leave in
his current motion.  The court set an MSC
(4/3/2023), Trial (7/19/2023) and FSC (7/7/2023).  There were no objections to the dates and both
counsel agreed.  There was no mention by
Mr. Janfaza that he was having difficulty in working or completing discovery or
having health issues or a problem locating his client.  The parties advised that a stipulation to
dismiss Best Western Carriage Inn would be coming soon.  Counsel were ordered to provide a Joint
Statement as to the status of discovery by 2/24/2023.  The court also ordered that an MSC take place
on 4/3/2023.  The court received no
objection to the MSC date.
On 1/25/2023, defendants filed a
Motion to Compel form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for
production of documents against plaintiff. 
It was served by email to 5 addresses at Mr. Janfaza's office, including
his email address listed on the State Bar. 
The motion states as follows:
"...on October 26, 2021,
counsel for Defendant sent counsel for Plaintiff an email following up on
Plaintiff's responses to the Discovery Requests, stating therein that no
responses had been received to the Discovery Requests to date, and asking
Plaintiff's counsel whether, and when, Plaintiff intends to submit responses.
Counsel for Plaintiff sent a reply e-mail to counsel for Defendant on that same
day, October 26, 2021, stating therein that he was unaware of the deadline to
submit discovery responses. In a follow up email on that same day, October 26,
2021, counsel for Plaintiff stated therein that his office never set up a service
list with Defendant's counsel's office. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 5). Counsel for
Defendant subsequently spoke with Plaintiff's counsel's office on that same
day, October 26, 2021, during which time counsel for Defendant agreed to grant an
extension, up to and               including
November 25, 2021, for Plaintiff to submit responses to the Discovery Requests.
(Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 6). On November 29, 2021, having still not received responses
to the Discovery Requests, counsel for Defendant agreed to grant a second extension,
up to and including December 13, 2021, for Plaintiff to submit discovery responses
to the Discovery Requests. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 7). On December 13, 2021, counsel
for Defendant then granted a third extension, up to and including January 3, 2022,
for Plaintiff to submit responses to the Discovery Requests. (Charkhchyan Decl.
at ¶ 8). On January 3, 2023, counsel for Defendant granted a fourth extension,
up to and including January 17, 2022, for Plaintiff to submit responses to the
Discovery Requests. On January 18, 2022, counsel for Plaintiff requested, and
Counsel for Defendant granted, a fifth extension, up to and including January
25, 2022, for Plaintiff to submit responses to the Discovery Requests.
(Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 9). On January 25, 2022, counsel for Plaintiff
requested, and counsel for Defendant granted, a sixth extension, up to February
1, 2022, for Plaintiff to submit responses to the Discovery Requests. (Charkhchyan
Decl. at ¶ 10). 
On February 1, 2022, six
extensions and almost five months after initially serving the Discovery Requests,
Plaintiff served objections only to the Discovery Requests. (Charkhchyan Decl.
at ¶ 11). . . . Thereafter, on May 13, 2022, counsel for Defendant sent counsel
for Plaintiff a formal letter correspondence (hereinafter, "Meet and
Confer Correspondence") requesting to meet and confer by May 31, 2022, on
the fact that Plaintiff had only served objections and no further substantive
responses to the Discovery Requests.  . .
. Therein, counsel               for
Defendant memorialized the fact that Plaintiff's counsel had only served
objections to the Discovery Requests. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 12). Counsel for
Defendant, on June 30, 2022, having not received a response from Plaintiff's
counsel on the Meet and Confer Correspondence, followed up with Plaintiff's
counsel, via email, on same. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 13). Pursuant to the
Seventh Amended Standing Order for  Procedures
in the Personal Injury Hub Courts, this Court required that the parties participate
in an Informal Discovery Conference prior to proceeding with a motion. 
As such, on July 5, 2022, counsel
for Defendant reserved a hearing date for an Informal Discovery Conference
(hereinafter, "IDC") after giving counsel for Plaintiff a reasonable amount
of time to respond to the Meet and Confer correspondence. (Charkhchyan Decl. at
    ¶ 14). The IDC was initially scheduled
for October 17, 2022. Prior to said hearing, on September 13, 2022, counsel for
Defendant followed up a third time on the Meet and Confer Correspondence, to
which counsel for Defendant received no response to. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶
15). Since the initial scheduling of the IDC, the hearing date for same was
continued several times, and finally addressed on January 18, 2023. Counsel for
Plaintiff did not provide a response during the hearing as to if and when
Plaintiff would be submitting  to
responses to the Discovery Requests. Counsel for Defendant subsequently sent an
email to counsel for Plaintiff on that same day following the IDC asking
counsel to confirm by the following day, if and when Plaintiff would be submitting
responses the Discovery Requests. Counsel for Plaintiff did not provide a response
to that email. (Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 16). To date, since        Plaintiff has failed to serve any
substantive discovery responses to the Discovery Requests, and has not provided
a response as to if and when Plaintiff will be serving substantive responses to
the               Discovery Requests
(Charkhchyan Decl. at ¶ 17). As a result, Defendant is left with no choice but
to file this instant motion."
The discovery was served
9/14/2021 and by the time of the filing of the motion, 16 months had gone by
with no responses from plaintiff, despite promises to respond and six extensions.
According to Mr. Janfaza he
returned to work on 1/30/2023.  According
to him, his legal assistant abandoned her desk and a new assistant started in
February.  However, the proof of service
of documents served by his office in June 2022, November 2022, February 2023, and
April 2023 were all served by the same person, Mia Miller. 
On 2/1/2023, Mr. Janfaza signed and
filed a plaintiff's Notice of Posting Jury Fees.
On 2/3/2023, the court sent the
following email to counsel:
              "Counsel
are directed forthwith to have a telephonic conference to attempt to resolve
the               motion to compel now set
on 2/23/2023."
 
On 2/8/2023, plaintiff filed a
non-opposition to the motion, except for sanctions, and states the following:
"Plaintiff’s counsel is not
attempting to delay this matter. Plaintiff’s counsel has always been agreeable
to providing Defense counsel with good faith responses on behalf of Plaintiff
Gradjyan. Initially, Plaintiff’s counsel was not aware of the discovery
requests until being notified of such requests by Defendant’s counsel. Since
becoming aware of               the discovery
requests, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to settle the matter with defense. Plaintiff
and Defendants were in long settlement discussions and both sides agreed that
the pending discovery might not be necessary. In December 2022, settlement
discussions began to break down. Counsel for Plaintiff, Shelan Toma, Esq., then
reached out to Plaintiff Gradjyan to discuss the discovery and potential
deposition dates. Plaintiff Gradjyan informed Plaintiff’s counsel that her
father and husband were hospitalized and was not in the right state of mind as
a result. Considering the circumstances, Plaintiff’s counsel humbly requests
that more time be given to Plaintiff Gradjyan so that Plaintiff’s counsel may
finalize her verified discovery responses and that no sanctions be imposed. Counsel
for Plaintiff will prioritize these discovery requests and will serve Defendant
with               Plaintiff’s verified
discovery responses."
However, these statements were
false.  Plaintiff's counsel was aware of
the discovery having sought and obtained SIX extensions of time to respond to
the discovery and, in fact, served objections only.
This non-opposition is notable
for two reasons: 1. Plaintiff's counsel denies knowing about the discovery
which was emailed to him personally and 4 other email addresses in his office,
just as he was "unaware" of two motions which were filed. 2.  Plaintiff's counsel states that plaintiff's
husband and father have been hospitalized. 

There has never been a
declaration from the plaintiff about any of "her" facts.  There is no information about when this
occurred, or why she would not be able to be interviewed by her counsel to
answer the discovery requests.  However,
plaintiff asked for more time to finalize her verified responses
implying the answer have already been started. 
The non-opposition also is accompanied by a declaration of attorney
Shelan Toma (also denying receipt of the discovery.)  She also states that it was in December 2022
that plaintiff advised her that her husband and father were hospitalized yet
there is no further detail about what this means in the context of the case.
Defense counsel notes that the
non-opposition on 2/8/2023 was the first time they were notified of the issue
of the hospitalization of plaintiff's husband and father.  They note that in December, they sent an
email to plaintiff's counsel asking for dates for the plaintiff's deposition
and there was no response from plaintiff's counsel.  The first request had been in August 2022 and
there was follow up in October 2022.  No
response was received from plaintiff's counsel per defense counsel.
To date there has never been any
declaration from plaintiff or any explanation of what her availability was to
respond to discovery, meet or talk with plaintiff's counsel. appear for
deposition, produce documents, etc. 
On 2/16/2023, defense counsel
filed a CMC statement indicating they still had not received the discovery
responses.
On 2/17/2023, the parties
stipulated to defendant Best Western Carriage Inn to be dismissed.
On 2/23/2023, the court held the
hearing on the motion to compel discovery and the court issued the following
order on 2/24/2023:
"NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Court Order (Re: Hearing on Motion to Compel plaintiff's responses to form
interrogatories, set one; special interrogatories, set one; and requests for
production of documents, set one; request for sanctions) The court held a hearing
on the defendants' motions to compel discovery responses from plaintiffs. The minutes
reflect appearances of counsel. 
The court had issued a tentative
ruling and counsel for plaintiffs argued the case. She initially reported that,
as stated in her declaration the following: "To conserve the parties 'and
the Court’s time and resources, I do not oppose the motion to compel, and I
agreed to provide good faith verified responses on behalf of Plaintiff, George
Simpson, to Defense counsel. However, I do not agree that Defendant, CHM
HOTELS, should attempt to impose sanctions as counsel for Plaintiff Gradjyan is
continuously making efforts in an attempt to serve Plaintiff’s responses to
Defendant. Our office is not attempting to delay               this matter. Plaintiff’s counsel has always been
agreeable to providing Defense counsel with good faith responses on behalf of
Plaintiff Gradjyan. Initially, our office was not              aware of the discovery requests until being notified of
such requests by Defendant’s counsel. Since becoming aware of the discovery
requests, our office attempted to settle the matter with defense. Plaintiff and
Defendants were in long settlement discussions and both sides agreed that the
pending discovery might not be necessary. In December 2022, settlement
discussions began to break down. I then reached out to Plaintiff Gradjyan to
discuss the discovery and potential deposition dates. Plaintiff Gradjyan
informed me that her father and husband were hospitalized and was not in the right
state of mind as a result. I will prioritize these discovery requests and will
serve Defendant with Plaintiff’s verified discovery responses." 
Plaintiff did not comply with the
2/24/2023 order.  Between the date of the
order on 2/24/2023 and the instant motion which was on 3/24/2023, nothing
was filed by plaintiff: no declarations, no request for reconsideration, no
explanation of the plaintiff's unavailability, no request for additional time
to comply with the order, or anything at all. 
There was simply silent non-compliance.
The MSC was scheduled for
4/3/2023 and an order to counsel had been sent requiring them to sign and
return a Notice of Acknowledgement and Acceptance of Terms, and MSC Brief.  Defendants complied on 3/24/2023.  Mr. Janfaza never complied and did not file Notice
of Acknowledgement and Acceptance of Terms, and MSC Brief,  thereby violating the court's order.  On 4/3/2023, Mr. Janfaza called the court and
stated that the MSC was off calendar.  He
advised Judge Bacigalupo that he had "lost contact with his client and
cannot do the MSC."  This was by phone
call at about 11 a.m. for a 1:30 p.m. MSC. 
Plaintiff's counsel never filed anything explaining why the MSC did not
go forward, or why the documents were never filed.  Mr. Janfaza never filed any declaration
explaining what it meant that he had "lost contact with his client."
On 4/5/2023, Mr. Janfaza filed a
declaration stating that he "did not see" the Motion for Sanctions
that was set for hearing on 4/18/2023. 
He requested: 
"Normally, one of the legal
assistants employed at this office would catch any Motions that were
inadvertently missed. However, this legal assistant had been on leave since
March 20, 2023. Upon returning from leave today, April 5, 2023, this legal
assistant saw Defendants’ Motion for Further Sanctions and brought it to my
attention.  Plaintiff’s Opposition to
Defendants’ Motion for Further Sanctions would be due today, April 5, 2023. I
am unable to oppose Defendants’ Motion for Further Sanctions as I will be on
leave as of this evening in observance of Passover until the evening April 13,
2023.  I also did not plan on being in
the office on April 14, 2023, in order to enjoy an extended weekend           through April 17, 2023.  I am therefore filing this Declaration to
respectfully request the Motion for Further Sanctions hearing be continued for
at least 30 days or at a date convenient for this honorable Court’s calendar to
allow Plaintiff to properly oppose the motion."
Yet again, Mr. Janfaza denies
seeing documents emailed directly to him and 4 other emails in his office.  He does not explain why other attorneys from
his office, such as Ms. Toma, did not see the discovery.  There is no explanation where he was in the
time between 3/24/2023 and 4/5/2023, nor where other attorneys in his office
were.
Importantly, he made no mention
about why the discovery responses had still not been served nor why he did not
file any substantive response to the motion between 4/5/2023 and
4/18/2023.  
The court posted the tentative
ruling on the instant Motion for Sanctions on 4/16/2023.  When the case was called for hearing on  4/18/2023, Mr. Janfaza stated he had not read
the tentative ruling so the court read the ruling to him. Mr. Janfaza indicated
that he was holding for 3 other court appearances all at the same time.   He had nothing of substance to say about the
motion and made no argument.  
Under the circumstances, the
court elected to go forward with the tentative ruling.  Mr. Janfaza wanted to explain the
circumstances of the non-opposition.  The
court explained that this is about why the plaintiff did not answer the
discovery for over 1-1/2 years.  There
has never been any explanation, declaration, or excuse.  
In all, there is a pattern of
broken promises, and willful refusal to engage in discovery, along with
violation of a court order, which justifies this sanction.  Many, many, many extensions were granted.  Promises to provide the answers were made and
not kept.  The trial was set in 3 months after
the motion and plaintiff never submitted to discovery.  Plaintiff unreasonably delayed for years on
the case: months and months of not serving defendants, not answering discovery,
not appearing for deposition, multiple OSC's without explanation, failing to
comply with the MSC order, last minute "cancellation" (failure to
attend) the MSC, a history of "not receiving" emailed motions and
discovery, failing to respond to meet and confers. The court denied a further
continuance of the motion as it would not change the facts that plaintiff has
without any stated reason under oath refused to engage in court ordered
discovery. 
CCP section 473 states that is a
dismissal or order has been taken against a party due to their mistake,
inadvertence, surprised, or excusable neglect, the court may grant relief.
Here, there is no declaration from plaintiff and therefore there is no evidence
by which the court can find that the plaintiff did not respond to the discovery
due to her own mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Accordingly, the court denies the request for
CP section 473 relief on that ground.
CCP section 473 also states: "Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate
any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and
which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief
is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to
pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or
parties."
The key to this type of motion is
a declaration from the attorney stating that he committed his own mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect which resulting in the dismissal of
plaintiff's complaint.  A careful review
of Mr. Janfaza's declaration for an explanation as to why it is HIS fault that
the discovery was never responded to fails to meet this requirement. He gives
no explanation how he did something wrong in failing to respond to the
discovery. To the contrary, he served legal objections.  It was his client who did not respond to
discovery. 
Even at the time this motion was
filed in October 2023, Mr. Janfaza STILL has not served the discovery responses
nor are they attached to the motion. 
Finally, Mr. Janfaza does not explain why he waited until 2 days before
6 months for seeking this relief.  
The hearing on this motion is scheduled
for 12/11/2023 and nothing more has been filed by Mr. Janfaza.
In the absence of an attorney
declaration of fault which resulted in the dismissal, the motion is denied.
 