  Case Number:  22STCV40905    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  1 22STCV40905           NIKKI
SHIPLEY vs UNIVERSITY OF LA VERNE
(1) Defendant University of La Verne’s Motion to Seal its
Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion to Transfer Venue to
Pomona Courthouse, Declaration of Lori Gordien, Declaration of Simar K.
Ahluwalia, and Request for Judicial Notice
(2) Defendant University of La Verne’s Motion to Transfer
Venue to the Pomona Courthouse
TENTATIVE RULINGS:     Defendant
University of La Verne’s Motion to Seal its Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Motion to Transfer Venue to Pomona Courthouse,
Declaration of Lori Gordien, Declaration of Simar K. Ahluwalia, and Request for
Judicial Notice is DENIED.
Defendant University of La Verne’s Motion to Transfer Venue
to the Pomona Courthouse is CONTINUED to Thursday, November 30, 2023 at 8:30
A.M. in Department 1 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Clerk shall give notice.
Background
On December 29, 2022, Plaintiff Nikki Shipley filed the
instant action against the University of La Verne arising out of Plaintiff’s
employment as an assistant professor. The complaint alleges Kent Badger began
disparaging Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s work performance after Plaintiff reported
sexual harassment of a student in 2015. In 2017, Defendant allegedly decreased
Plaintiff’s teaching course load, resulting in a reduction in income. In 2019,
the complaint alleges Plaintiff reported inappropriate behavior by Kelly
Niles-Yokum who then disparaged Plaintiff and accused Plaintiff of plagiarism
on a paper included in Plaintiff’s tenure portfolio. Defendant allegedly denied
Plaintiff tenure and promotion on December 23, 2019. The complaint further
alleges Plaintiff began a medical leave of absence and Defendant denied
Plaintiff’s request to return to work. 
The complaint asserts causes of action for: (1) failure to
engage in the interactive process; (2) failure to accommodate disability; (3)
discrimination based upon disability; (4) violation of the California Family
Rights Act; (5) retaliation for exercise of CFRA rights; (6) retaliation for
engaging in protected activity; (7) retaliation in violation of CA Labor Code
section 1102.5; (8) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; (9) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(10) constructive discharge in violation of public policy; (11) wrongful
termination in violation of FEHA; (12) wrongful termination in violation of
public policy; (13) unfair business practices; and (14) intentional infliction
of emotional distress. 
Motion to Seal 
 
On September 11, 2023 and September 13, 2023, Defendant
filed conditionally redacted versions of the documents filed in support of its
motion to transfer venue and lodged unredacted versions pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551. The only information redacted from the filings are
the cities in which Defendant asserts various non-party witnesses reside or
were last known to reside. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1), a
motion to seal “must be accompanied by a . . . declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing.” (See In re Marriage of Lechowick
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416 (“A request to seal . . . must be supported by
a factual declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs of the
case.”); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894 (“[A]t a
minimum that the party seeking to seal documents, or maintain them under seal,
must come forward with a specific enumeration of the facts sought to be
withheld and specific reasons for withholding them.”).) 
 
Defendant filed the declaration
of its counsel, Simar Ahluwalia, in support of the motion to seal. Any
additional statements made in the supporting memorandum are not evidence and
therefore cannot supplement the averments in the parties’ declarations. (Reid v. Overland Machined Products
(1961) 55 Cal.2d 203, 209 (“Statements in the pleadings or memoranda of counsel
are hearsay, self-serving, and incompetent as evidence.”); Smith, Smith & Kring v. Superior Court (Oliver) (1997) 60
Cal.App.4th 573, 578 (“The matters set forth in the unverified Statement of
Facts and in memoranda of points and authorities are not evidence.”); Walter v. National Indem. Co. (1970) 3
Cal.App.3d 630, 633 (“[C]ounsel for appellant attempts to treat his statements
in the memorandum [a]s evidence. This cannot be done.”); Cole v. Town of Los Gatos (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 749, 767 n.8 (“It
goes without saying that statements in a memorandum of points and authorities
are not evidence.”).) 
 
The Ahluwalia declaration states “ULV located this
information in the witnesses’ personnel files and/or student records. ULV does
not have permission from the individuals to publicly disclose this
information.” (Ahluwalia Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
In the supporting memorandum, Defendant contends non-party
witnesses have an overriding privacy interest in their cities of residence, partially
quotes footnote 46 in NBC Subsidiary, supra, and generally summarizes Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 506 to argue the
witnesses’ asserted privacy rights overcome the right of public access. (Mot.
at 6:25-7:6.) Defendant quotes footnote 46 in NBC Subsidiary as “stating
‘Courts have acknowledged various other overriding interests. . . protection of
minor victims of sex crimes from further trauma and embarrassment …privacy
interests of a prospective juror during individual voir dire…protection of
witnesses from embarrassment or intimidation…’ as examples of an overriding
privacy interest.” (Mot. at 6:26-7:4.) The instant motion involves witnesses,
not minors or jurors, and Defendant omits the remainder of the text regarding
the protection of witnesses in footnote 46. The full text states the cited
court found a potential overriding interest in the “protection of witnesses
from embarrassment or intimidation so extreme that it would traumatize them or
render them unable to testify.” (NBC Subsidiary, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
1223 n.46.) Defendant provides no basis for the conclusion that the public
filing of their city of residence would subject any of the non-party witnesses
to embarrassment or intimidation of any magnitude. 
 
Defendant summarizes Overstock, supra, as “holding
that records that revealed private third-party information should be sealed.”
(Mot. at 7:4-6.) However, the court in Overstock held “the trial court
should have ordered much of this confidential third party financial information
sealed—largely because it was irrelevant to plaintiffs’ summary judgment
opposition.” Here, Defendant primarily relies upon the cities of residence in
support of its motion and the privacy interest, if any, in a witnesses’ city of
residence does not rise to the same level as confidential financial
information. 
 
Defendant also notes courts have generally recognized a
right to privacy in employee personnel files. (Mot. at 7:7-9 citing Harding
Lawson Associates v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 7, 10 and Board
of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3rd 516, 528-530.) In both
Harding and Board of Trustees, the court addressed requests for
discovery of an entire personnel file, including confidential information
concerning hiring, evaluation, promotion, and denial of tenure. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends, “specific cities of
residences of potential witnesses is already publicly available information
which is easily obtained from multiple sources.” (Opp. at 5:11-12.) Plaintiff’s
opposition is not supported by relevant evidence or authority on this issue. 
 
However, “[p]rivacy concerns are not absolute and must be
balanced against other important interests.” (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 1036, 1070 quoting Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1, 37. See generally, In re Marriage of Burkle (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1045, 1063 (“We entertain no doubt that, in appropriate
circumstances, the right to privacy may be properly described as a compelling
or overriding interest. . . . This does not mean that parties who come to
court, voluntarily or not, are entitled to privacy in respect of court records
that are, . . . presumptively public records.”).) Defendant did not file, and
does not seek to redact, entire addresses for the identified witnesses, only
their city of residence or last known city of residence. The redacted information
in this case does not threaten an undue intrusion into the witnesses’ personal
life and does not reveal any intimate details thereof. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds Defendant has not demonstrated
the witnesses have a privacy interest in their city of residence sufficient to
overcome the right of public access to the court records here. 
 
Defendant’s motion to seal is DENIED.
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(6), “[i]f
the court denies the motion or application to seal, the moving party may notify
the court that the lodged record is to be filed unsealed. This notification
must be received within 10 days of the order denying the motion or application
to seal, unless otherwise ordered by the court. On receipt of this
notification, the clerk must unseal and file the record. If the moving party
does not notify the court within 10 days of the order, the clerk must (1)
return the lodged record to the moving party if it is in paper form or (2)
permanently delete the lodged record if it is in electronic form.”
 
Because Defendant’s motion to transfer venue, also on
calendar this date, primarily relies upon the redacted information, the hearing
thereon shall be continued to provide Defendant the requisite 10 days under
Rule 2.551 to notify the Court whether the documents will be publicly filed. 