  Case Number:  19SMCV01619    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  I There are two motions on for today.  One is defendants’ motion (which is actually
one by each defendant group but that the court has considered and will discuss
together) for terminating sanctions due to plaintiff Hakim’s failure to turn
over certain electronic communications relating to a 2017 article that the
defense states would have resolved the case long ago.  The other is plaintiffs’ motion to compel
Umansky to turn over materials that plaintiffs content Umansky is hiding.  The court discusses them seriatim.
Turning first to defendants’ motion, the court is inclined
to DENY the motion, but the court emphasizes that Hakim’s attempt to trivialize
the problem is ill-taken.  At issue is a
series of electronic communications between plaintiffs in 2017.  The communications, which for reasons unknown
to the court seem to be viewed by plaintiffs as confidential, deal with a 2017
article.  First, to the extent that these
documents are viewed as confidential, the court, on its own motion, deems them
to be non-confidential and the sealing order is VACATED as to those
documents.  The unredacted filings
relating to this motion will be placed in the public record.  As an aside, given what the court believes to
be a frivolous confidentiality designation, the court is within a hair’s
breadth of ordering all documents to be placed in the public record to the
extent they were designated confidential by plaintiffs.  The fault may well be (and likely is) the
court’s for being a bit too trusting of these designations when it approved the
standard confidentiality order.  However,
the parties should think long and hard about whether to file any further
documents under seal or attempt to do so. 
The court guarantees that it will look at it with a jaundiced eye—at
least with regard to plaintiffs—and if there is another one like this, the
court will, again on its own motion, de-designate the documents without
prejudice to plaintiff bringing a separate motion as to the specific documents
it would like designated as confidential.
As to the merits, the 2017 article was a short one.  But it did disclose that Umansky and Oberfeld
were in partnership (or some sort of business relationship) concerning the
development of the property at issue. 
When asked about this article at deposition, Hakim denied ever having
seen it.  That testimony was given even
though the article was shown to him.  In
opposition to this motion, counsel argues that Hakim simply forgot.  That might well be true (or not), but far
more troubling to the court is Hakim’s repeated statements through counsel that
led this court to believe that he had turned over all responsive documents when
in fact he had not.  The most recent
instance was when defendants sought Hakim’s cell phone for inspection.  Hakim objected, noting that he had given the
cell phone to a forensic expert and further stating that he had turned over all
responsive documents and had deleted none. 
That simply was not true.  This
exchange was plainly responsive—potentially very much so.  The court will not determine here whether it
is dispositive for summary judgment purposes (and the court notes that once
this came to light, Hakim was willing to allow defendants to modify their
summary judgment motion to account for it), but it is certainly germane to that
motion and without doubt germane to the case. 
Hakim contends that the parties had reached an agreement that the only
relevant period ended in 2016—before this exchange.  The court simply does not believe that any
such agreement existed and it doubts the truth counsel’s declaration to the
contrary.  It could be that the parties
had an informal agreement to concentrate on that period first—and plainly there
is significance to that period because that is the period during which the
property was being sold and Hakim was bidding for it.  But the court has not seen any exchange or
agreement between the parties in which anyone agreed that everything after that
would be excluded from discovery and this court recalls making no such
order.  The court’s concern is that in
opposing the motion to turn over the cell phone, counsel stated—repeatedly—that
all responsive documents had been turned over, and, more specifically, that
there were none at all.  That repeated
promise was just not true. 
In light of the court’s above concern, the court went back
and re-read the brief.  In most (although
not all) cases, plaintiff modified the representation by stating “during the
relevant period,” a term not defined in the opposition brief but that was in a
footnote in the moving papers (and was consistent with the 2015-2016 time
frame).  It could therefore be, and the
court will so conclude for today, that the modification rendered the statement
not technically false.  But the court
nonetheless feels that it was deliberately misled.  The only reason that the court ordered the
forensic report to be turned over was because the court was trying to put
defendants’ mind at ease.  The court
fully expected the report to show precisely what plaintiff claimed it would
show—no responsive documents and no deletions. 
It was only because the court threw in that provision that this exchange
ever came to light.  The court has little
doubt but that had the order not been made, the exchange would never have been
revealed, Hakim’s inaccurate (at best) deposition testimony would have gone
uncorrected, and the evidence would never have become known.  And that even though the document request
clearly and unambiguously called for the production of that exchange.
The court recognizes that these are harsh words, and counsel
will have the opportunity to explain why the court is wrong at the
hearing.  But the utter lack of remorse
or even acknowledgement in the opposition papers is quite troubling.  At one point, the shoe was on the other foot
and defense counsel made a representation that the court later came to believe
was not true.  The court stated that its
faith in counsel had been diminished. 
The same is now true of plaintiff’s counsel and plaintiff.
To recount just a bit, in June 2021, Umansky served an RFP
to Hakim seeking all communications between Hakim and Segal relating to the
property.  There was no 2016 time limit
on the request.  Hakim responded by
saying all non-privileged documents had been produced.  (Hakim also reserved the production of
confidential documents pending a confidentiality order, but that has been
resolved.).  A few months later, Oberfeld
served Hakim with a request for the same communications “from January 1, 2015
to the present.”  Hakim gave the same
response and produced to messages.  In
December 2022, Umansky followed up and pointed out that no text messages had
been produced.  Segal made a small
production of documents on January 20, 2023 (but the texts at issue were not
included).  Hakim produced no
documents.  Finally, Hakim “produced” 86
pages of text messages on April 18, 2023. 
The reason produced is in quotation marks is because Hakim redacted the
entirety of every single text message on the theory that all were non-responsive.  Defendants questioned the response, noting
that Hakim had not produced text messages that Segal produced, and they
therefore sought the production of Hakim’s mobile device.  Hakim objected, stating that he had retained
a third-party forensic examiner and based on that report, Hakim and counsel
verified that no responsive text messages existed.  On August 11, 2023, the court denied the
request to produce the mobile device, but to assure the defense that there were
no games being played, the court ordered that the forensic report be turned
over.  Hakim and his counsel
complied.  Upon receipt of that report,
defendants claim that they learned that there were 1800 pages of responsive
documents dated between 1/1/17 and 8/2/18, including the ones here at
issue.  The court notes that those
messages appear to be responsive to the 2021 RFP’s and are inconsistent with
the sworn responses thereto.  Further, at
least by the time of the hearings this year, not only was Hakim aware of these
texts, but the court can only believe that Hakim’s counsel was aware as
well.  Yet no hint of the messages was
made in the briefing or at argument (or Hakim’s deposition, for that
matter). 
With that said, one might wonder why the motion for
terminating sanctions is not being granted. 
The answer is that, troubling as this is, the court has no evidence
proving that this is part of a larger pattern nor does the court believe that
there is prejudice other than monetary prejudice.  The evidence has now come to light.  Defendants will have an opportunity include
this argument in the summary judgment motion. 
If the motion is granted, then the only harm is monetary (and the amount
of sanctions under those circumstances is not being passed upon today).  If the motion is denied, then there is not
even monetary harm other than the cost of the motions that finally led to this
production.  And, of course, the defense
will be able to point out this problem to the jury as a way of attacking
Hakim’s credibility.  After all, it was
Hakim who signed the verification; it will be Hakim who defendants will be able
to claim made the false statement.  And
Hakim ought not to raise the “advice of counsel” defense lightly.  Under these circumstances, it is not clear
that the court would find a privilege over this topic in terms of
communications between Hakim and his counsel. 
As to the importance of the texts, the court will not venture to comment
at this juncture other than to say that the fact that Hakim made such an effort
to conceal the texts plays into defendants’ hand.  Had Hakim been forthright, it would be easier
for the court to assume that these communications were of little import, as
Hakim now belatedly claims.  Having
struggled so much to hide them, the opposite inference is more easily
drawn.  That said, of course, the court
will view this evidence, and all the evidence submitted, when that matter is
put before the court on summary judgment and the court is cognizant of the
rules regarding consideration of evidence at the summary judgment stage.
While not granting the motion, the court will do this.  In light of Hakim’s and counsel’s prior
statements and the now-articulated line, Hakim is ordered to provide
SUPPLEMENTAL VERIFIED RESPONSES WITHIN 10 COURT DAYS TO ALL PAST WRITTEN
DISCOVERY.  The response will be
re-stated specifically to make it clear that all documents and information is
being produced for all of the dates set forth in the RFP or interrogatory (or
that the response so applies as to any RFA) unless otherwise expressly stated
and that there are no documents that were lost or destroyed or in the hands of
a third party.  That means that if any
document is being withheld based on an objection, the response must identify
the document being withheld (with sufficient particularity for defendants to
ascertain the precise scope of the decision to withhold) and state the specific
objection that justifies withholding it. 
If that requires a substantive change to the response or the production
of additional documents or a supplement to a log, that will be produced on the
same day.  There will be no document
withheld due to the date of its creation. 
Each of Hakim’s counsel will also file a verified response
stating that, to the best of counsel’s knowledge, Hakim’s verification is
true.  Note that counsel may limit the
verification to the best of counsel’s knowledge; the court is not asking for an
independent inquiry.  But in light of
counsel’s prior statements to the court, which deliberately or not had the
effect of misleading the court, the court will insist that counsel go under
oath as well.  The court also notes that
if there are any documents lost, destroyed, or in a third party’s hands, then a
declaration complying with CCP section 2031.230 is required (and it ought to be
fairly detailed, under the circumstances). 
These responses will go request by request, meaning that this will not
be in omnibus fashion.  Unless otherwise
stated, the declaration should be made with the assumption that all objections
other than privilege are of no effect unless detailed information is given as
to what documents or information is being withheld and on the basis of what
specific objection. 
As to monetary sanctions, the court holds that in
abeyance.  The court will wait and see
whether there is additional information being produced and the effect, if any,
on the summary judgment motion.
With that, the court turns to plaintiff Hakim’s motion.  Hakim seeks to compel further responses to
his requests for production directed to Umansky, who opposes the motion.  The court notes that it DISREGARDS the new
evidence in reply, but that evidence does not change the outcome anyway.
Umansky initially argues that the motion should be denied
because it is untimely.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.020 states that a party shall be entitled as a matter of
right to have discovery motions heard on or before the 15th day before
trial.  Thus, if the motion is timely
filed, it must be heard.  On the other
hand, if the motion is untimely, there is no such right.  But the fact that there is no right to be
heard does not mean that the court lacks the power to hear it in its
discretion, although the exercise of such discretion requires that the court be
asked to so exercise and it must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration showing why the motion was not earlier filed.  (Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta
Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)  According to the July 18, 2023 minute order,
the trial was continued to August 2024, but the discovery deadlines would still
be keyed from the earlier, November 20, 2023 trial date.  That, in turn, means that the motion had to
be noticed to be heard no later than November 6, 2023 (because November 5 is a
Sunday).  The motion is therefore
timely.  Even were it not, the court
would be inclined to hear it.
The court now turns to the merits.  Umansky says that there is no valid motion
because the responses to discovery were proper. 
Hakim sent out discovery seeking all text messages, but Umansky only
produced text messages essentially up to June 2016 (an ironic position given
Hakim’s statements regarding his production). 
Hakim states that Umansky has no justification to cut off the production
as of that date.  The court agrees with
Hakim on that point.  Even if one were to
assume that no event of significance occurred after June 2016 for
purposes of Hakim’s case against Umansky putting statutes of limitations to one
side (and the court is not so assuming), that does not mean communications
about events end on that date. 
Communications often refer to past events.  There is no justification to the cut
off.  The problem, according to Umansky,
is that Umansky is not cutting anything off; there simply are no responsive
communications to identify or produce that have not been produced.  And Umansky’s actual response appears to be
consistent with that.  After a paragraph
of objections, Umansky states that he “will produce non-privileged documents
responsive to this Request, if any.”  If
it is true that Umansky has produced all he has to produce, then there is
nothing more to produce.  Hakim is, of
course, free to question whether Umansky is telling the truth and he may point
out the oddness of the lack of any communications after June 2016 to the
jury.  But that does not mean that it is
a false statement.  Normally, that would
lead to a denial of the motion.  But the
court is no longer sanguine about these parties or their counsel.  
First, Umansky’s response was “subject to and without
waiving” the page of objections and states that documents will be produced “if
any.”  That is not proper, as the court
has stated many times.  The court cannot
tell if any documents were actually withheld based on an objection, and Umansky
does not really unequivocally so state. 
And the wording of the response is odd. 
Umansky does not say he will produce “all” non-privileged documents,
only that he will produce non-privileged documents (if any).  That means that some documents might have
been lost or destroyed and Umansky is just not saying.  Umansky obviously cannot produce that which
is no longer in his possession, custody, or control.  However, he must make it clear that no
documents have been withheld on the basis of any of the objections listed other
than privilege, and as to privileged documents, they are on a log.  Further, if some documents have been lost or
destroyed or are in the hands of a third party, he must provide a statement
compliant with section 2031.230. 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  It is GRANTED to the extent that Umansky will
submit a declaration consistent with the foregoing within 10 COURT DAYS
(request by request).  If there are
documents that now need to be produced, they will be produced at the same
time.  The final privilege log will also
be produced at that time.  Hakim requests
that Umansky produce his device for imaging. 
That request is DENIED.  It was
raised in reply and there is no basis for such an invasive order.  Finally, though, if Umansky has (as the court
believes he states) obtained a forensic report, he will turn that report over
to Hakim at the same time.  And, as was
the case with Hakim, Umansky should assume that all objections other than
privilege are being waived.  If Umansky
wishes to stand on an objection, he must be specific about which documents are
being withheld and on which objection.
Hakim’s request for sanctions is HELD IN ABEYANCE.  If Umansky presents a declaration as set
forth above and there is no 2031.230 addition and no additional documents, then
the motion will be denied.  If it turns
out that Umansky has not been fully forthcoming, the court might well consider
sanctions.
As to both Hakim’s motion and Umansky’s motion, the
discovery motion cut-off is lifted on the court’s own motion with regard to the
enforcement of the foregoing orders. 
Motions may be filed until November 30, 2023 without further leave of
court.  In all other respects, the
discovery cut-off remains in effect unless counsel agree otherwise (in writing)
or the court orders otherwise.
Hakim requests a discovery referee.  Normally, the court might be inclined to
grant that motion.  But given that the
discovery cut-off has come and gone, the court does not think that is
necessary.  Of course, the parties may
stipulate to a referee if they desire.
Given the fact that each party has now made representations
to the court that the court has found to be misleading and potentially
deliberately so, the parties might want to think a long time before bringing
more discovery motions.  Rather, they
ought to just obey the statutes regarding discovery and turn over the
information as the law requires.  The
rule they ought to follow is that if they are thinking about whether they need
to turn it over, they do.  The court is
tired of what appears to be gamesmanship by both sides.