 Case Number:  21SMCV01968    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion by Ramirez to quash certain subpoenae.  The court finds that the motion is properly
before it and it will be resolved on its merits.
Cross-defendants InterSolutions served subpoenae on various
entities seeking payroll information and some information regarding medical
condition.  Ramirez moves to quash on the
ground that this is a wrongful eviction case and that none of that is relevant
to the subject matter of the litigation or calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.  Ramirez also
claims that the service of the subpoenae was not proper.  Although Ramirez has requested that he be
served electronically, InterSolutions allegedly served him only by mail and,
worse, at a time they knew he would not be available to receive the mail.
The court’s initial view was that the motion ought to be
granted.  Ramirez stated in his moving
papers that he was not seeking lost wages, and if that were true then this
discovery is intrusive and irrelevant and improper.  However, in opposition, InterSolutions points
out that Ramirez in fact is seeking lost wages and a significant amount
thereof.  He claims he has been out of
work since 2019 due to the alleged wrongful events.  Ramirez’s reply notes that the subpoenae were
issued at a time when the operative cross-complaint did not seek lost wages,
although Ramirez does not dispute that the currently operative cross-complaint
does.  Given that the currently operative
cross-complaint has been circulating for a while, the court finds that Ramirez
has put his lost wages at issue. 
InterSolutions is entitled to challenge whether Ramirez’s claim of lost
wages has any merit and one way to do so is to find out what Ramirez made in
the years before the alleged tort. 
Accordingly, the subpoenae are proper as to wages.  The court is not as sure about the medical
records, and will ask about that at the hearing.
As to service, the court is concerned.  There have been service issues in this case
in the past.  Ramirez has requested
electronic service, and the court believes that it has been done in the past
that way on a uniform basis.  The court
does not understand why it was not done here. 
The court notes from the proofs of service that service was technically proper;
that is, notice was served in a manner allowed by the Code of Civil Procedure
and adequate notice was given (but not by a lot).  That is a problem where Ramirez had
specifically asked for electronic service. 
The court cannot understand why InterSolutions would not also serve
Ramirez by electronic means, even if only as a courtesy.  Doing so would have led the court to deny
Ramirez’s motion outright.  But instead,
InterSolutions—for reasons that the court cannot really fathom—has elected to
serve him in a way calculated to reduce the chance that he will get timely
notice.  That is not proper, and the
court is inclined to grant the motion due to that conduct, but without
prejudice to re-serving the subpoenae.
This is not rocket science. 
Ramirez has requested that service be electronic.  He has given his electronic service
address.  If service is done
electronically, the serving party will have the computer-generated proof that
the document was in fact served.  At that
point, the merits of whatever motion is at issue will be at issue.  The court is aware that there is no love lost
as between these parties.  But the court
still expects that both parties will endeavor not to create procedural
problems unnecessarily.
The court notes that the procedural faults by all parties in
this case have led to unnecessary complications and severe delays.  The time may come when those chickens will
come home to roost.
Ramirez also brought an ex parte application for an
injunction to bar cross-defendants from evicting him absent legitimate
process.  The request is DENIED.  Putting to one side the procedural issues
with the motion, the bigger problem is that Ramirez was evicted in December
2021.  Whatever was done has already been
done.  An injunction barring future
evictions will not cure or change that. 
Ramirez’s remedy, if any, lies in damages.  Further, to the extent he seeks an order
against a person who is not named in the operative cross-complaint, it is
improper.  In any event, there is no
basis for an injunction and the request is DENIED.  The court will not hear argument on the ex
parte application.