 Case Number:  23SMCV02740    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  I The is a motion to vacate the entry of default and the
default judgment.  The default was
entered on July 11, 2023 and judgment for possession was entered on July
18.  Defendant filed a motion to vacate
and plaintiff opposes.  Plaintiff
objected to the declarations in the moving papers.  Those objections are OVERRULED.  The testimony represents defendant’s version
of the facts.  Whether the version is
correct or not is a separate question. 
Defendant submitted new evidence in reply.  While normally it would be disregarded, here
it was in response to plaintiff’s allegations of perjury.  If it becomes relevant and plaintiff seeks a
short continuance to respond to the new evidence, the court will consider it.  Plaintiff also sought judicial notice of
certain documents recently without any justification for the late request or
explanation as to why they are relevant. 
Defense counsel states that when he asked, plaintiff’s counsel refused
to say.  The request for judicial notice
is DENIED.  The court can only assume
that counsel is playing games and the court has no intention of
participating.  Therefore, the untimely
and unexplained request for judicial notice is DENIED.
CCP section 473 allows a party to be relieved from default
due to “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect” if a motion to
do so is filed within 6 months of the default (which this was).  Motions for relief are liberally granted
absent prejudice, and the moving party’s showing need only be supported by
slight evidence.  (Kramer v.
Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13.)  Here, defendant makes two arguments.  One is that service was improper and the
other is that defendant’s principal thought that the parties had agreed that
there would be no default while they were discussing settlement.
As to service, papers were served on “Bernabe Vasquez,
Server – Person in Charge” according to the proof of service.  According to the defense, Vasquez is a cook
(not a server) and is not in charge of anything or even apparently in charge of
anything.  His English is, defendant
claims, poor and he would not know the significance of the papers (although the
court notes that the summons is in English and Spanish and it certainly looks
official).  Substitute service is a
proper manner of service, but the papers must be left with “the person who is
apparently in charge” of the location. 
(Code Civ. Proc. sec. 415.20, subd. (a).)  In his declaration, Vasquez does not deny
being served, but he does deny knowing the significance of the service.  The court must agree with the defense that
this is not sufficient.  The key is that
the person being handed the service papers must have a relationship with the
person being served that it makes it likely that service will be
accomplished.  (Bein v.
Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1387.)  Here, there is no evidence that anyone sought
to find out if Vasquez was really in charge of the location at the time of
service (instead of, for example, the manager) or to ensure that Vasquez
understood what was being served.  The
court views this issue as a close one. 
But in light of the law’s favoring of resolution on the merits, the
balance tilts to the defense.
The second argument is that defendant’s principal, Ulkarim,
believed that no suit would be filed while the parties were discussing
settlement and no one told him anything to the contrary.  In opposition, plaintiff produced various
emails where Nicole Abend, on plaintiff’s behalf, told Ulkarim that the UD
action would proceed.  In one, that the
default package for possession would go forward.  She also declared that she verbally told
Ulkarim of the proceedings.  In his
reply, Ulkarim argues that he thought that meant that an action would be filed
in the future, not that one had already been filed.  Frankly, plaintiff’s reading of the emails is
far the more natural.  But it is not wholly
unreasonable for one not familiar with the law to read the emails as Ulkarim
states.  Were the law any less tilted
toward granting these motions, the motions would be denied.  The evidence here is paper thin.  But paper thin might be enough here.  (Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 681, 696 [finding that very slight evidence” is all that is
required to set aside a default].)
The motion is GRANTED. 
Defendant will file the answer by 5:00 pm today.  The court will, today, set a trial date for
the possession part of the case.  The
court feels it has no alternative but to grant the motion, but this still
smacks of delay.  The Legislature has
determined that UD cases will move forward very quickly.  Therefore, the court anticipates a trial date
in November 2023.