  Case Number:  20STCV18693    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  49 Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc., v. Ross Stores, Inc., et al.     MOTION TO TAX COSTS  MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Enchante Accessories, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc., brought this action under the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (“Proposition 65”).  Plaintiff alleged three products sold at Defendant Ross’s stores—a notebook planner, cosmetic case, and suction-cup mirror—contained Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (“DEHP”), which is allegedly subject to Proposition 65 warning requirements. Defendant allegedly failed to provide such warnings. On October 22, 2021, Defendant Enchante Accessories, Inc., the distributor of the products at issue, filed a motion to intervene.  The court granted the motion.On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the action against Defendant Enchante Accessories, Inc., without prejudice. On September 21, 2023, Defendant Enchante filed a memorandum of costs seeking $324,058.30 in total costs.Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group now moves to strike or tax the costs memorandum. Defendant opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Tax is GRANTED IN PART, as discussed herein. To wit, this Court taxes only $68,175.00 from the Memorandum of Costs.  The motion to tax costs to the remainder of the claimed costs is DENIED.As such, the total amount of costs to be awarded in favor of Defendant Enchante Accessories, Inc., and against Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. is $255,883.30.Defendant may file and serve a proposed judgment consistent with the final ruling.Defendant also to give notice of the final ruling.DISCUSSION:Motion to Strike or TaxAnalysisA. Entitlement to Expert Witness Fees, Based on Good Faith Section 998 OfferPlaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group moves to strike or tax the cost memorandum filed by Defendant Enchante on September 21, 2023. The primary issue is whether Defendant is entitled to recover its expert witness fees incurred in this action since the expiration of Section 998 offer to compromise.1. Governing Law“A plaintiff may voluntarily dismiss a complaint by written request to the clerk at any time prior to the commencement of trial, upon payment of costs (§ 581, subd. (b)(1)). As the statute expressly states, a party in whose favor such a dismissal is entered is entitled to recover its costs (§ 1032, subd. (b)). Generally, these costs do not include the fees of experts not ordered by the court. (§§ 1032, 1033.5, subd. (b)(1).) However, expert witness fees incurred after the non-acceptance of a valid section 998 settlement offer may be recoverable.  (Mon Chong Loong Trading Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2013) 218 Cal. App. 4th 87, 93.)Code of Civil Procedure § 998 allows for any party in a civil suit to serve a settlement offer to any other party before the commencement of trial. An offer must be in writing, state the terms and conditions of the proposed judgment or award, and contain a provision that allows the offeree to accept the offer by signing a statement so stating. (See CCP § 998(b).) Section 998, subdivision (c)(1) provides that “[i]f an offer made by a defendant is not accepted and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award, the plaintiff shall not recover his or her postoffer costs and shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer. In addition, ... the court or arbitrator, in its discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to cover postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses ... actually incurred and reasonably necessary in ... preparation for trial or arbitration ... of the case by the defendant.”“The purpose of section 998 is to encourage the settlement of litigation without trial.” (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 1258, 1262.) To effectuate this purpose, “a section 998 offer must be made in good faith to be valid.” (Id.) “Good faith requires that the pretrial offer of settlement be ‘realistically reasonable under the circumstances of the particular case. Normally, therefore, a token or nominal offer will not satisfy this good faith requirement.’” (Id.) This generally means the offer must “carry with it some reasonable prospect of acceptance.” (Id.) “One having no expectation that his or her offer will be accepted will not be allowed to benefit from a no-risk offer made for the sole purpose of later recovering large expert witness fees.” (Id. at 1262-63.) “The validity of a section 998 offer is determined as of the date it is served.” (Smalley v. Subaru of Am., Inc. (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 450, 455.) Whether a 998 offer “carries with it some reasonable prospect of acceptance” is a function two considerations: “First, was the 998 offer within the ‘range of reasonably possible results’ at trial, considering all of the information the offeror knew or reasonably should have known? [Citation.] Second, did the offeror know that the offeree had sufficient information, based on what the offeree knew or reasonably should have known, to assess whether the ‘offer [was] a reasonable one,’ such that the offeree had a ‘fair opportunity to intelligently evaluate the offer’?” (Covert v. FCA USA, LLC (2022) 73 Cal. App. 5th 821, 834.)Jones is instructive. There, a plaintiff who refused a Code of Civil Procedure section 998 offer contended that the trial court abused its discretion in awarding the prevailing defendant discretionary costs. The plaintiff claimed the Code of Civil Procedure section 998 offer to compromise, which only included a waiver of costs, “was not a reasonable offer, but rather a token, tactical one made only to preserve the right to later claim these disputed costs.” (Jones, supra, 63 Cal.App.4th at p. 1262.) However, the Court of Appeal rejected this argument, finding that the plaintiff did not show any factual basis to claim the offer was “ ‘unrealistic and unreasonable’ ” or made solely in order to “ ‘gain a strategic advantage.’ ” (Id. at 1263.) Instead, the offer of a waiver of costs was deemed to have a significant monetary value: “Appellants overlook the fact that in offering to have judgment entered against him, respondent [defendant] was also waiving his considerable cost bill against which appellants' likelihood of success in the case must have been weighed.” (Id.) “Facially, [Defendant’s] offer carried a significant value to [Plaintiff] because, if accepted, it would have eliminated [Plaintiff’s] exposure to the very costs which are the subject of this [motion], a sum [Plaintiff] can hardly claim now to be de minimis.” (Jones, supra, 63 Cal. App. 4th at 1264.) As demonstrated, “case law interpreting the good faith requirement allows for great flexibility in customizing pretrial settlement offers.” (Jones, supra, 63 Cal. App. 4th at 1264.) Indeed, “even a ‘modest settlement offer’ may be in good faith if it is believed the defendant has a significant likelihood of prevailing at trial.” (Id.; accord Carver v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 132, 154 [998 offer providing for nominal sum plus waiver of costs and attorney fees was found to be reasonable and in good faith “in light of the circumstances at the time the offer was made”].) Thus, “[a] defendant's offer to waive costs may carry significant value to the plaintiff because, if accepted, it eliminates the plaintiff's exposure to expert witness costs.” (Essex Ins. Co. v. Heck (2010) 186 Cal. App. 4th 1513, 1529; Adams v. Ford Motor Co. (2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 1475, 1486 [A 998 offer had “significant value” for the plaintiff beyond the monetary award, “as it included a waiver of costs that would have protected [the plaintiff] from exposure to the costs which are the very reason for this appeal.”].) “In a particular case, a waiver of costs may be an offer of significant value.” (See Hartline v. Kaiser Found. Hosps. (2005) 132 Cal. App. 4th 458, 471 [§ 998 offer to “waive any claims for costs incurred in the litigation of this matter in exchange for the entry of a Request for Dismissal with prejudice” was reasonable and made in good faith].)2. ApplicationDefendant served three Section 998 offers for the separate products at issue in this case. (See Adham Decl. 4; Adham Supp. Decl. Exhs. E, F, G.) The 998 offers provided:This offer, if accepted, shall resolve all claims that have been brought or could have been brought by Plaintiff CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP, INC. (“Plaintiff”) against Enchante based upon the manufacture, distribution, and sale of the products at issue in the above-captioned litigation in exchange for a mutual waiver of costs.(Adham Supp. Decl., Exhs. E, F, G.)First Defendant, as the offering party, has the burden of demonstrating the settlement offer was valid under section 998. (Smalley v. Subaru of Am., Inc. (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 450, 455.) Once that burden is met, “the burden shifts to [the offeree] to demonstrate the offer was unreasonable or was not made in good faith.” (Id. at 458.) “If the actual judgment is more favorable to the offeror than was the offer, it is prima facie evidence of the offer's reasonableness.” (Id.; Thompson v. Miller (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 327, 338–339 [“[W]hen a party obtains a judgment more favorable than its pretrial offer, [the offer] is presumed to have been reasonable and the opposing party bears the burden of showing otherwise.”].)To begin, Defendant has demonstrated a valid section 998 settlement offer. The offer is in writing, states the terms and conditions of the proposed judgment or award, and contains a provision that allows the offeree to accept the offer by signing a statement so stating. (See Adham Supp. Decl.; CCP § 998(b).) Plaintiff does not contend the argument is procedurally invalid. This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate the offer was unreasonable or not made in good faith. By operation of the dismissal, Defendant has obtained a judgment more favorable than its pretrial 998 offer, which is prima facie evidence of the offer’s reasonableness. (See Hartline v. Kaiser Found. Hosps. (2005) 132 Cal. App. 4th 458, 471 [“Indeed, [Plaintiff’s] request for stipulation to dismissal and eventual voluntary dismissal of his remaining cause of action without a waiver of costs is prima facie evidence the offer was reasonable.”].)Most importantly in this case, when Defendant presented its section 998 offers to Plaintiff, it included a detailed and compelling cover letter outlining why it believed Plaintiff’s action was without merit and should be dismissed. (Adham Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. C.) Defendant provided an “exposure assessment,” which demonstrated that “there is no significant risk of exposure to DEHP to consumers in use of the Product, even when one is to assume daily use (which is an inappropriate and incorrect assumption).” (Id., p. 2, ¶ 1.)Defendant’s cover letter also persuasively explained “that DEHP is not a human carcinogen and poses ‘no significant risk of causing cancer in humans’” based on the California Court of Appeal decision in Baxter Healthcare Corp. v. Denton (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 333.Last but not least, to this court’s knowledge Plaintiff has never provided any evidence whatsoever evidence refuting Defendant’s contentions in this regard.Considering these facts, the 998 offer was in the range of reasonably possible results at trial. In addition, Defendant knew that the Plaintiff had sufficient information—and indeed, did provide such information in its cover letter—to allow Plaintiff to assess whether the offer was a reasonable one. (See Covert, supra, 73 Cal. App. 5th at 834.)As noted, in a proper case, a potential waiver of costs can hold great value. (See Essex Ins. Co., supra, 186 Cal. App. 4th at 1529 [“[a] defendant's offer to waive costs may carry significant value to the plaintiff because, if accepted, it eliminates the plaintiff's exposure to expert witness costs.”].) Plaintiff frequently litigates these cases. Its counsel are experts in this area of law. They know better than anyone that covering the opposing party’s expert witness fees can be significant. (See Carver v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 132, 154 [“Hindsight now shows the value of the proposed waiver of costs and fees was considerable, and it was no secret at any time that Chevron hired expensive lawyers who were expected to pursue all available avenues of defense.”].) Finally, it is immaterial that Plaintiff dismissed the action without prejudice. A Plaintiff’s voluntary dismissal of the complaint, even without prejudice, “constitutes the conclusion of the action and is therefore an appropriate precipitating event triggering the trial court's discretion as to the assessment of expert witness fees under section 998.” (Mon Chong Loong Trading Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2013) 218 Cal. App. 4th 87, 90.) “A plaintiff may fail to obtain a more favorable judgment or award by failing to obtain any award at all, as in the case of voluntary dismissal.” (Id. at 94.)Accordingly, based on the totality of the facts and circumstances and the record before it, this Court concludes and expressly finds that Defendant’s 998 offer was made in “good faith,” and was thus valid and enforceable. B. Reasonableness of Expert Fees SoughtBased on the finding the 998 offer was made in good faith and that Defendant obtained a better result, Defendant can recover its costs, including post-offer expert witness fees. (§§ 1032, 1033.5, 998(c)(1).) The court now turns to the reasonableness of the fees sought.  Plaintiff contends the costs sought are “manifestly unreasonable.” (Mtn. 1: 11.)In total, Defendant seeks a total of $324,058.30 in costs in its Memorandum of Costs. The large majority of the fees, $248,175.00, are attributed to Defendant’s expert witnesses. As also noted in the Jones decision:If items on their face appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum of costs is prima facie evidence of their propriety, and the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary. "On the other hand, if items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs." (Ladas, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) However, whether a cost item was reasonably necessary is still a question of fact to be decided by the trial court.”(Jones, supra., 63 Cal.App.4th at 1266.)In addition to the issue of whether these expert fees were even recoverable, Plaintiff has certainly put the “reasonableness” of these costs “in issue,” based upon its timely objection and pending motion to tax costs.  Plaintiff argues “[i]n a case where there was no trial, no expert reports, no depositions of Defendant’s witness/ expert and no motion for summary judgement, the purported expert witness fees listed by Defendant are plainly neither necessary nor reasonable.” (Mtn. 3: 25-28.)  Upon first glance, this contention appears to have some merit.In any case, this shifts the burden back to Defendant to demonstrate that these costs were, in fact, reasonable and necessary.  Defendants have successfully done so in great part.  As set forth in the Declarations of Joseph Sala, Renee Kalmes, and Jessica Vargas, the preparation for trial of this case entailed months of testing, surveys, compilation of data, and the extent to which the use of the Products could expose consumers to DEHP. Additionally, since these experts do not appear to be direct employees of Defendant, this Court assumes that these are the exact amounts which were actually incurred and/or paid by Defendants directly to each of these expert witnesses.  It is well settled that when a bill for services is paid, that creates a rebuttable presumption that the bill was “reasonable.”  Courts have based this reasoning on the “recognition that a person who receives a bill has ‘every interest to dispute its accuracy or reasonableness if there is reason to do so. Thus, if a bill or invoice is paid, the court is assured of the accuracy and reasonableness of the charges.'” (Jones, supra., 63 Cal.App.4th at 1268 (quoting Imperial Cattle Co. v. Imperial Irrigation Dist. (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 263, 272).)  [FN 1]Be that as it may, the court agrees the costs sought are somewhat excessive to some extent. As previously noted by this Court, the number of experts obtained by Defendant was likely unnecessary and likely resulted in some duplication of work and evidence. Therefore, the court finds the total amount of recoverable and reasonable expert witness costs to be $180,000.00. The amount of expert fees sought (i.e. $248,175.00) is therefore reduced to this amount.C. Reasonableness of Remaining CostsAside from expert witness costs, Defendant also seeks costs recoverable under CCP § 1032 and 1033.5, including $1,965 in filing fees, and $10,454.10 for electronic filing or service.Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden to demonstrate these costs are unreasonable. Defendant, in turn, has demonstrated the costs were reasonably necessary and recoverable.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to tax these remaining costs are DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 26, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - However, the current record is unclear as to whether any of these bills have, in fact, been actually paid to date.  Defendants may address that issue at the hearing if they choose to do so.   In any case, whether they have not been paid in whole or in part does not affect the final determination of this motion.  If they have, in fact, been paid, that merely adds on additional evidence of the reasonableness and necessity of the expert fees.  In either case, the final ruling does not change. 