 Case Number:  20STCV49246    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




seran ng, d.m.d., inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
yang lu

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV49246




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   2, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Yang Lu
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Seran NG, D.M.D., Inc.
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The
court denies defendant Yang Lu’s requests for judicial notice because the
matters   (1) are not proper subjects for judicial
notice, and (2) are not relevant to the court’s ruling on this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp.
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825.) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court declines to rule on the evidentiary objections submitted by
the parties because the court finds that the objections are directed to
evidence that is not material to the court’s disposition of this motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).)  
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Yang Lu (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order granting summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication in her favor and against plaintiff Seran Ng, D.M.D., Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
As a threshold issue, Plaintiff argues in
its opposition that Defendant did not give sufficient notice of the pending
motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c.  The court agrees.
“Notice of the motion and supporting papers
shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the
time appointed for hearing.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(2).)  “If
the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method
of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of
notice shall be increased by two court days.” 
(Ibid; Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B) [“Any
period of notice . . . shall be extended after service by electronic means by
two court days”].)  “This language is
mandatory and the court has no discretion to shorten the time[.]”  (Cuff v. Grossmont Union High School Dist.
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 582, 595.) 
Defendant served Plaintiff with the notice
of motion and supporting papers by electronic service on August 18, 2023.  (Aug. 18, 2023 Proof of Service,
POS-050, ¶¶ 2-3.)  However,
Defendant was required to serve Plaintiff with the notice of motion and motion
by electronic service no later than August 17, 2023 (75 calendar days + 2 court
days for electronic service). (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 437c, subd. (a)(2),
1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).)  Thus,
Defendant served Plaintiff with this motion one court day late.  (Ibid.) 
The court notes that Defendant does not
appear to dispute that the motion was not served within the time proscribed by
statute.  Instead, Defendant argues that
the court may consider the merits of her motion because (1) Plaintiff waived
its right to claim inadequate notice by filing an opposition brief on the
merits, and (2) Plaintiff failed “to allege harm by the one-day difference in
Notice.”  (Reply, p. 15:2-3, 8.)  The court disagrees.  Although Plaintiff filed opposition papers
arguing the merits of Defendant’s motion, the court does not construe that to
be a waiver of the right to object on the ground of insufficient notice
because, in the event that the court disagreed, Plaintiff acted in its best
interest to ensure that summary judgment was not granted in Defendant’s
favor.  The court therefore finds that
Plaintiff properly objected to and raised the issue of insufficient notice in
its opposition. 
The court also notes that Defendant contends
that this motion was originally filed on January 4, 2023 with a hearing dating
of October 19, 2023, which was vacated due to changes in assigned judges to
this case.  But the rescheduling of the
vacated hearing on Defendant’s previously filed motion did not relieve Defendant
of her obligation to serve Plaintiff with the now pending motion 75 calendar
days, plus two court days for electronic service, before the November 2, 2023
hearing.
Thus, the court finds that Defendant failed
to serve her notice of motion and supporting papers on Plaintiff within the
time required by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(2).  The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion
on the ground of insufficient notice. 
ORDER

The court denies defendant Yang Lu’s motion for summary judgment
or, alternatively, summary adjudication. 
The court orders plaintiff Seran NG, D.M.D., Inc. to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 2, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court