 Case Number:  23STCV11373    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



OMNINET KIPLING, L.P.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DEANGELO
  GREENE, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 23STCV11373
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date:  December 19, 2023
Time:
  8:30 a.m. 
Dept.
  56
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Deangelo Greene
(“Moving Defendant”)
 
The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition papers were
filed.  Any opposition papers were
required to have been filed and served at least nine court days before the
hearing under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005,
subdivision (b).  
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a landlord/tenant
relationship.  The complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges: (1) breach of lease. 

 
On November 20, 2023, Moving Defendant filed
a motion to strike (the “Motion”).
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Under CCP section
436, the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to CCP section 435, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436, subds.
(a)-(b).)  The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of
which the court is required to take judicial notice.  (CCP § 437, subd. (a).)


Although filed as a
motion to strike, the moving papers cite to CCP section 431.30, the provision
that sets forth the requirements for the contents of an answer.  The contents of the Motion appear to assert
an affirmative defense based on facts that are extraneous to the allegations of
the Complaint and thus outside the scope of consideration on a motion to
strike.[1]  Furthermore, Moving Defendant failed to file
a proof of service, so it is unknown if Plaintiff received notice of the
Motion.  (See CCP § 1005;
California Rules of Court, r. 3.1300(c).)
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that the Motion does not set forth a basis to strike
the Complaint.  The Court therefore
DENIES the Motion.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
 
        Dated
this 19th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


