 Case Number:  BC701900    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MARCO NASER KHORASANI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.: BC701900
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO WITHDRAW
  THE REMAINDER OF DEPOSIT AFTER JUDGMENT
 
Date: 
  December 19, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants Marco Khorasani, Nicole Khorasani, and LAX Cafe &
Convenience Store, Inc. (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Non-party Michael Luparello (“Luparello”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
On
April 3, 2023, the Court entered a Final Judgment in Condemnation (the
“Judgment”).  On June 28, 2023, the Court
granted Moving Defendants’ motion for withdrawal of compensation after judgment
to satisfy outstanding liens but required that an undertaking be posted.  On August 28, 2023, the Court granted Moving
Defendants’ motion for partial withdrawal of deposit in order to satisfy five
liens.  
 
On
November 21, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a motion for withdrawal of remaining
deposit of compensation (the “Motion”).  The
Motion seeks an order permitting the withdrawal of the remainder of the
deposit, to be used first to satisfy the final judgment creditor, and then
deposited for the benefit of Moving Defendants. 
The Motion further requests that the Court not require Moving Defendants
to post an undertaking in light of the satisfaction of all outstanding judgment
liens.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Moving Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
Under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)  section 1268.140, subdivision (a), after entry
of judgment, any defendant who has an interest in the property for which a deposit
has been made may apply for and obtain a court order that he be paid from the
deposit the amount to which he is entitled upon his filing either of the
following: (1) a satisfaction of the judgment; or (2) a receipt for the money
which shall constitute a waiver by operation of law of all claims and defenses
except a claim for greater compensation. 
(CCP § 1268.140, subd. (a).)  CCP
section 1268.140 is the only code section that governs withdrawal of funds in
an eminent domain case after judgment.  (Medical Acquisition Co., Inc.
v. Superior Court (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
313, 326.)
 
Under CCP section 708.410, a judgment creditor who has a money
judgment against a judgment debtor who is a party to a pending action or
special proceeding may obtain a lien under this article, to the extent required
to satisfy the judgment creditor's money judgment, on both of the following:
(1) any cause of action of such judgment debtor for money or property that is
the subject of the action or proceeding; and (2) the rights of such judgment
debtor to money or property under any judgment subsequently procured in the
action or proceeding.  (CCP § 708.410,
subd. (a).)  Under CCP section 708.470,
if the judgment debtor is entitled to money or property under the judgment in
the action or special proceeding and a lien created under this article exists,
upon application of any party to the action or special proceeding, the court
may order that the judgment debtor's rights to money or property under the
judgment be applied to the satisfaction of the lien created under this article
as ordered by the court.  (CCP § 708.470,
subd. (a).)  
 
In his opposition (the “Opposition”), Luparello argues that Moving
Defendants should be required to post an undertaking in light of a potential
adverse judgment in a pending employment matter.[1]
 Luparello, however, is not currently a
creditor entitled to a lien on the Judgment or a party to the action.  The Opposition does not set forth a basis for
placing conditions on the withdrawal of the Judgment in an otherwise
uncontested matter where all creditors’ claims have been satisfied based on the
possibility that a non-party without an existing lien may obtain a money
judgment in an unrelated case against some Defendants at some point in the
future.
 
 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send
an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
      Dated this 19th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 


