  Case Number:  21STCV34143    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Robert Farias, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV34143




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Brenda Dietlein, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate;
Motion for Leave to Amend
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brenda
Dietlein aka Brenda-Lee Malley
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DIETLEIN’S
MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS DENIED.
DIETLEIN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT IS CONTINUED TO
JANUARY 6, 2025 AT 9:00AM.
DIETLEIN TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT AND
DECLARATION NO LATER THAN DECEMBER 16, 2024.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
A. Motion to Bifurcate
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 598 allows a party to seek an order
before trial ‘that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,’ where ‘the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby ….’” (Estate of Young (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 62, 90.)
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Brenda Dietlein moves for an order bifurcating
trial between claims relating to Dietlein and claims relating to
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Glendale Centre Theatre. Dietlein asserts that
bifurcation is necessary because there are different claims against the two
parties and because Dietlein is an individual and GCT is a corporate entity.
These differences between Dietlein and GCT do not in themselves justify
bifurcation. The claims brought by all parties relate to the same series of
events and transactions. 
 
Dietlein’s motion to bifurcate is DENIED.
 
B. Motion for
Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint
 
The Court may allow, in furtherance of
justice, and “upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars….”  (CCP
§ 473(a)(1).)  A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that
specifies (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Dietlein moves for leave to amend her cross-complaint to add factual
allegations and claims uncovered in discovery. Dietlein, however, has not
included a proposed amended cross-complaint or a declaration under CRC Rule
3.1324(b). The Court will continue the hearing on this motion to allow Dietlein
to file these documents. 
 
Dietlein’s motion for leave to amend cross-complaint is CONTINUED.


 