 Case Number:  22STCV04555    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Hakan Serbest,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV04555




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
International Capital Alliance, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
December 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge
Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Moving Party: Defendant
International Capital Alliance, Inc.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Hakan Serbest
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND COSTS IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Hakan Serbest first
sued Defendant International Capital Alliance Inc. (ICA) on February 7, 2022.
The operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed on October 25, 2023. It
contains causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
duty of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) unjust
enrichment; (5) unfair business practices; and (6) recission. The action arises
from a purported joint venture agreement between the parties. 
 
Following a bench trial, the
Court ruled in favor of Defendant, finding the joint venture agreement
unenforceable. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Entitlement
to Fees
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
Defendant moves for attorney’s fees under Civ. Code § 1717 via the joint
venture agreement. The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be
awarded reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the
contract specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code §
1717(a).) The joint venture agreement provides, “[t]he prevailing Party shall also be entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs in conforming and executing upon the award.”   
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant cannot recover fees under the joint venture agreement
because Defendant argued, and the Court found, that the agreement was an
enforceable, sham agreement. The primary purpose of section 1717 is to ensure mutuality
of remedy for attorney fee claims under contractual attorney fee provisions. (Santisas
v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 610.) “To ensure mutuality of remedy in
this situation, it has been consistently held that when a party litigant
prevails in an action on a contract by establishing that the contract is
invalid, inapplicable, unenforceable, or nonexistent, section 1717 permits that
party's recovery of attorney fees whenever the opposing parties would have been
entitled to attorney fees under the contract had they prevailed.” (Id.
at 611.) 
 
As Plaintiff would have been
entitled to fees had Plaintiff prevailed, Defendant is entitled to fees.
 
B.
Reasonableness of Fees
 
Defendant moves for $78,015.00 in attorney’s fees and $3,499.23 in
costs. Defendant’s counsel, Zhong Lun Law Firm, LLP, billed 148 hours at
$525.00 per hour. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts counsel’s hours are
excessive. This action lasted two years and included motion work, discovery,
and a bench trial. Counsel’s hours and hourly rates are reasonable.
 
The motion for attorney’s fees and costs is GRANTED.
 
 