 Case Number:  24TRCV01523    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JUAN
  HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01523




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MONICA
  JENKINS,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 30,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Mindy S. Bish,
Esq. at Bish Law, APC
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Juan Hernandez, effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the
client.
BACKGROUND
On May 3, 2024, Juan Hernandez
filed a complaint against Monica Jenkins for motor vehicle negligence based on
an incident that occurred on May 9, 2022 at the Sepulveda Blvd. exit off the
105 Freeway.
On November 19, 2024, defendant
filed an answer.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s counsel Mindy S. Bish,
Esq./Bish Law, APC seeks to be relieved as counsel.
Counsel states in her declaration
that “[f]rom the time this firm was retained by Plaintiff, I have faithfully
and to the best of my ability represented Plaintiff in this action.  Despite these efforts, issues have arisen in
obtaining recovery for Plaintiff, which have rendered my firm unable to make
further attempts to advance this matter. 
When these issues were communicated to Plaintiff, they resulted in a
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship, making it impossible for me to
effectively represent Plaintiff in this case. . . . I am unable to fulfill my
duties as an officer of the Court as a representative of Plaintiff in this case
in light of these differences and resultant deterioration of the
attorney-client relationship.”  
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.   The Court
also finds that the attorney has shown sufficient reason why the motion to be
relieved as counsel should be granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Juan
Hernandez, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial
Council form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.