 Case Number:  YC071563    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  B GARY OUYE VS JOHNATHAN A. ALVAREZ
Case No. YC071563
MOTION FOR ASSIGNMENT ORDER AND FOR ORDER RESTRAINING
JUDGMENT DEBTOR
No Opposition filed.
How should the Court treat “gig-economy” income in this ever
evolving “employment” landscape? 
Judgment Debtor is an UBER driver. 
He is not an employee and does not earn wages subject to the garnishment
limitations of Code of Civil Procedure
§ 706.050.  He is an independent contractor
subject to an assignment order.  Code of Civil Procedure § 708.510.
In June 2018 Plaintiff Gary Ouye obtained a judgment against
Judgment Debtor Johnathan A. Alvarez aka Johnathan Albert Alvarez, individually
and dba G.A.M.A. Concrete Design dba GAMMA SIGMA Concrete Design dba Concrete
Structure Development in the amount of $400,000. On September 27, 2023 the
judgment was renewed in the principal sum of $605,612.08.
Judgment Creditor now seeks an order instructing Judgment
Debtor Johnathan A. Alvarez to assign to Judgment Creditor all of Judgment
Debtor’s interest in and to all payments and rights of payments in future
income streams due Judgment Debtor from UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC. Judgment
Creditor also seeks a restraining order restraining Judgment Debtor from
encumbering, assigning, disposing of, or spending any portion of any such
amounts due from UBER. It is claimed that with accrued interest, the amount
owed on the Judgment is $676,008.70.
This motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§’s 708.510(c), 708.510(d), 708.510(e) and
708.510(f).  That statute states:
“(a) Except as otherwise provided
by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the
court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or
to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610)
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not
the right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to
the following types of payments:
(1) Wages due from the federal
government that are not subject to withholding under an earnings withholding
order.
(2) Rents.
(3) Commissions.
(4) Royalties.
(5) Payments due from a patent or
copyright.
(6) Insurance policy loan value.
(b) The notice of the motion shall
be served on the judgment debtor. Service shall be made personally or by mail.
(c) Subject to subdivisions (d),
(e), and (f), in determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of
an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into
consideration all relevant factors, including the following:
(1) The reasonable requirements
of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole
or in part by the judgment debtor.
(2) Payments the judgment debtor is
required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and
wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for support.
(3) The amount remaining due on the
money judgment.
(4) The amount being or to be
received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.
(d) A right to payment may be
assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the
money judgment.
(e) When earnings or periodic
payments pursuant to a pension or retirement plan are assigned pursuant to
subdivision (a), the amount of the earnings or the periodic payments assigned
shall not exceed the amount that may be withheld from a like amount of earnings
under Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 706.010) (Wage Garnishment Law).
(f) Where a specific amount of the
payment or payments to be assigned is exempt by another statutory provision,
the amount of the payment or payments to be assigned pursuant to subdivision
(a) shall not exceed the amount by which the payment or payments exceed the
exempt amount.”  Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 708.510
Code of Civil
Procedure § 708.520 authorizes the Court to issue a restraining order “restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or
otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.”
Judgment Creditor is entitled under C.C.P. § 708.510 to obtain an assignment
order to attempt to enforce the judgment against Judgment Debtor.  Judgment Debtor testified that he drives for
UBER.  UBER has responded to a subpoena
in this case noting that Judgment Debtor is a third-party independent contractor,
not an employee.  As such, the amount
that may be subjected to the assignment order is not automatically limited to a
percentage of Judgment Debtor’s earnings, as is the case with Wage
Garnishment.  See Code of Civil Procedure § 706.050.
Instead of a mandatory statutory limitation, the limits on
the amount of the assignment that may be applied are subject to the discretion of
the Court.  Subpart (c)(1) allows the
Court to limit the assignment based on the “reasonable requirements of a
judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in
part by the judgment debtor.”  The Motion
was not opposed, and therefore the Court lacks specific information regarding the
“reasonable requirements of … judgment debtor … and of persons supported in
whole or in part by the judgment debtor.”
The Court reasonably may infer that as a driver for UBER, and
a person who is obtaining income as a third-party independent contractors using
the UBER mobile software application, he is being compensated for his labor.  As such, the Court concludes that some amount
of the funds due to Judgment Debtor from UBER should be assumed to be for the
reasonable support of Judgment Debtor. 
However, in light of the failure of Judgment Debtor to oppose this
Motion and supply the Court with specific financial information that would
allow the Court to make a truly informed decision on this issue, the Court
shall exercise its discretion and limit the assignment order to 50% of the
gross amount due to Judgment Debtor from time to time, ultimately limited to
the total amount of the Judgment.
ORDER:
The Court GRANTS to Motion for an Assignment Order, and
directs that it shall provide for the assignment of 50% of Judgment Debtor’s gross
revenue due from UBER, not to exceed the amount of the Judgment.
The Court GRANTS  the
request for an injunction restraining the Judgment Debtor from assigning or
otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.
Judgment Creditor shall submit a proposed form of Order.
Judgment Creditor shall give notice to Judgment Debtor.