 Case Number:  22STCV31715    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DAWN STEVENS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  RICHARD LEOPARDI,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV31715  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL AND MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 16, 2023   I. Motion To Deem Admitted Defendant Richard Leopardi (“Defendant”) propounded requests for admission (“RFAs”), set one, on Plaintiff Dawn Stevens (“Plaintiff”) on April 14, 2023.  (Mandell Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. A.) Plaintiff is in pro per. Responses were due no later than May 17, 2023. After receiving no response, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff requesting verified responses, without objections, by June 1, 2023. As of the date of filing, Plaintiff has not served responses. Defendant therefore seeks an order deeming the RFAs, set two, admitted and imposing sanctions.  On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion to deem RFAs admitted. The Court, in its discretion, will consider Plaintiff’s untimely opposition on the merits. Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Here, Plaintiff provides that on October 26, 2023, Plaintiff electronically served defense counsel responses to Defendant’s RFAs, set one. After service, Plaintiff realized she served an incomplete draft, and corrected the mistake by serving “Plaintiff’s Amended Responses” on October 30, 2023. Plaintiff avers the only difference between the two drafts are requests nos. 80 and 81, and the verification which was not under penalty of perjury. Plaintiff provides she was out of town for the second half of May 2023, and was out of state from May 17 to May 23, 2023. Plaintiff acknowledges her delay in providing responses, but also provides that she is unrepresented and not proficient in litigation. Plaintiff asserts defense counsel stated they were fine with agreeing to extend the time for Plaintiff to respond, that it was not a big deal if Plaintiff needed more time. Further, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s RFAs, set one, contains 118 requests, Defendant’s special interrogatories, set one, contains 207 interrogatories, and Defendant’s request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set one, contains 86 demands. Plaintiff intends to file ex parte applications regarding a motion for protective order as to Defendant’s interrogatories and RPDs.  In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff has not provided a credible excuse or explanation for failure to comply with her discovery obligations, and at no point did defense counsel advise Plaintiff that she could take as much time as she needed to respond to discovery. Defendant further argues that the responses to Defendant’s RFAs are not in substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure §2033.200, and that monetary sanctions, at the very least, are warranted.  Neither party provides a copy of the served responses to Defendant’s RFAs, set one, for the Court to evaluate whether or not it is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. Nonetheless, as it appears Plaintiff is now actively participating and has attempted to comply with her discovery obligations, the Court finds the motion to deem RFAs admitted unwarranted at this time. The motion is therefore denied.  II. Motions to Compel Defendant Richard Leopardi (“Defendant”) propounded form interrogatories, set one, and special interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff Dawn Stevens (“Plaintiff”) on April 14, 2023.  (Mandell Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. A.) Plaintiff is in pro per. Responses were due no later than May 17, 2023. After receiving no response, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff requesting verified responses, without objections, by June 1, 2023. As of the date of filing, Plaintiff has not served responses. Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  Plaintiff did not specifically file any opposition to the motions to compel. However, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion to deem RFAs admitted, and briefly addressed the propounded interrogatories. In the interests of judicial economy and justice, the Court will consider the arguments raised by Plaintiff in that opposition and its relation to the motions to compel.    For a motion to compel discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)   The evidence shows Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to respond. However, Plaintiff provides she intends to file a motion for protective order regarding these same discovery requests. Therefore, considering Plaintiff’s status in propria, and Plaintiff’s current active engagement with the discovery process, Defendant’s motions are denied without prejudice at this time.    III. Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿Based on the foregoing, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time in terms of Defendant’s motions to compel.  As for the motion to deem RFAs admitted, “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (CCP § 2033.280(c).) Defendant requests $705 for the motion to deem RFAs admitted.  Defendant is awarded two hours at the requested rate of $215 per hour, for a total of $430 in attorney fees. Further, Defendant is awarded one motion filing fee of $60, as costs.      Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $490, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   