 Case Number:  19STCV02913    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SALVADOR ELIZARRARAS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  DHOOR GURPREET SINGH, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV02913  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 16, 2023  Plaintiffs Salvador Elizarraras (“Elizarraras”) and Fernando Garcia (“Garcia”), by and through his guardian ad litem Gabriela Garcia, (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) attorney of record Michael B. Daurio, Esq./BD&J, P.C. (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel. Counsel contends Plaintiff Elizarraras passed away in or around June 2023 and that Plaintiff's counsel has been unable to locate any successor-in-interest despite diligent efforts, including commissioning the services of a private investigator. Counsel further avers that there has been a significant breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, which has significantly impeded counsel's ability to effectively prosecute this case and represent Plaintiff Garcia.   Counsel declares they served the moving papers on Plaintiffs via mail at Plaintiffs’ last known address, which Counsel has been unable to confirm after mailing the motion papers to Plaintiffs’ last known address with return receipt requested, and calling the Plaintiffs’ last known telephone number. Counsel filed proof of service on Plaintiffs, Defendant, and the Clerk of Court.  The motions are unopposed and granted; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order. Trial is currently set for March 19, 2024. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiffs to seek other counsel or otherwise prepare prior to trial.  Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    