  Case Number:  20TRCV00847    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 27, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      20TRCV00847
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Drakk Holdings, LLC
v. PSIP SN Vermont LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont,
LLC
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Drakk Holdings, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       May 28, 2024 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) ARGUE but likely
CONTINUE hearing to address missing Exhibits HH, II, and JJ.
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On November 17, 2020, Plaintiff DRAKK Holdings, LLC
(“DRAKK”) filed this action against Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont, LLC (“PSIP”).
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On November
30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging cases of
action for: (1) Specific Performance/Express Written Contract; (2) Specific
Performance/Promissory Estoppel; (3) Specific Performance/Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Promissory Estoppel and Money
Damages; (5) Fraud & Deceit; and (6) Negligent Misrepresentation.¿ 
 
This case involves a dispute between Plaintiff DRAKK
(buyer) and Defendant PSIP (seller), regarding a purchase and sale agreement
(“PSA”) in a
heavily litigated dispute that has been
pending for over four years concerning an improved parcel of real property in
Gardena, California.  Plaintiff claims in its complaint that Defendant
failed to complete the sale of its subdivided parcel under its PSA. On the
other hand, Defendant asserts DRAKK failed to complete the purchase of the
subdivided property because it did not have the funds in hand to pay the
purchase price on time, and that DRAKK’s claims to “financial ability” to
borrow or sell assets to get the funds at some future time is not legal
sufficient to prove DRAKK was “ready and able” to purchase on time. 
 
Defendant files a Motion for Summary Adjudication as
to all six of the causes of action asserting that Plaintiff’s causes of action
have no merit, that the necessary elements of each cannot be established, and
there is a complete defense to each. Further, Defendant contends that because
this Court can grant a Motion for Summary Adjudication to each of the causes of
action that Summary Judgment can be granted on the grounds that the entire TAC
has no merit, there are no triable issues of material fact, and PSIP is entitled
to judgment against Drakk as a matter of law. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 15, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication and Summary Judgment. On March 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 22, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief.   In all, there are 24 separate
digital documents filed for this motion, including briefs, declarations,
exhibit compendiums, separate statements, and evidentiary objections.  But there are no documents or transcripts or
declarations filed by Plaintiff for its opposition Exhibits HH, II, or JJ.
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Legal Standard  
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
 
B. Discussion 
 
Specific
Performance – First, Second, and Third Causes of Action          
            First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to
specific performance because the undisputed facts establish that Defendant did
not breach and that Plaintiff did not have the funds to purchase by the
extended escrow closing date of October 30, 2020, or for months thereafter.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff is barred from seeking specific performance by
not being ready and able to pay the purchase price on time, and also by failing
to tender the purchase price under the PSA. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff
did not have its own funds to purchase the property and had not secured
financing by the original or extended deadline, and thus Plaintiff was not
ready and able to purchase the property under the terms of the PSA as agreed
upon by the partis, or thereafter when Plaintiff filed its lawsuit for specific
performance. Defendant contends that Plaintiff admitted that it did not have
the funds to close on time under the PSA and that Plaintiff will be unable to
prove it had a loan commitment to close on time under the PSA, which is why it
requested more time for testing and then more time to close. Defendant cites to
Am-Cal Inv. Co. v. Sharlyn Estates, Inc. (1967) 255 Cal. App. 2d 526,
539-540, and notes that “[a] purchaser without funds of his own may show that
he was ready and able to pay the purchase price because he had made
arrangements to borrow the required funds from a lending institution or from a
third party, but if he relies upon the negotiation of a loan from a third
party, the buyer must prove: (1) That the third party was legally bound by
contract to advance the funds . . . .”
            Nonetheless, Plaintiff argues that it was ready, willing,
and able to purchase the Property because at all times, Plaintiff’s purchase of
the property was secured by a loan commitment or its financial ability to
obtain its own funds.” (TAC, ¶ 56.)  There is no dispute that Plaintiff did not
tender payment, but that pursuant to Henry v. Sharma (1984) 154
Cal.App.3d 665, tendered payment is not required to prove a party’s readiness,
willingness, and ability. While this is true, the facts of Henry are
inherently distinguishable. In Henry, the court rejected the argument
that without proof of an existing legally enforceable loan contract, a buyer
cannot prove he or she is ready, willing, and able to perform under a real
estate purchase agreement. The Court, instead, noted that proof of ability to
perform may be made by showing the buyer “’commanded resources upon which he
could obtain the requisite credit.’” (Id. at 671.) Put simply, the
“proof needed to show ability [to perform] depends [not on the existence of a
legally enforceable loan agreement, but] on all the surrounding circumstances.”
(Id. at 672.) In Henry, the Second District noted that the seller
had committed an anticipatory breach, and thus, they saw no purpose in
requiring the buyers to bind themselves to a loan for which they have no
immediate need. (Ibid.) Rather, the Henry Court questioned
whether a lender would make a firm commitment to loan money for the purchase of
property the present owner refuses to sell. (Ibid.) Further, the
circumstances in Henry were that “[b]oth buyers were employed. They
owned a home which they had on the market at the time they contracted to buy
the property at issue [there]. They proceeded to sell the home and realized
$26,500 from the sale. In addition, buyers owned a six-unit apartment house and
a duplex in Los Angeles. When the deal at issue [in Henry] fell through,
buyers purchased another home on almost identical terms to those in the
[transaction in Henry].” (Ibid.) As such, the Henry Court
found that this evidence led the court to reasonably conclude the buyers had
the ability to perform their end of the bargain. (Ibid.) Lastly, this
Court further notes that the Court in Henry only applied a “reasonable
[amount of] time” when a real estate sales contract does not specify the dates
for performance. (Id. at 669.)
            Here, Plaintiff asserts that, assuming October 12, 2020
was the closing date (which Plaintiff contends it is not), then the balance of
the Purchase Price, deducting the earnest deposit, dropped to about $5,941,720.
Plaintiff argues that the evidence shows that Plaintiff could have purchased
the property because: (1) Plaintiff was already pre-qualified for a loan from
its Bankers to purchase the Property even prior to executing the Second
Amendment/Lease credit, noting on December 1, 2019, Bank of America had
committed to loan Plaintiff $8,260.000; (2) because of the rent credits and Tenant
Improvement allowances the Property had an equity cushion by September 2020,
noting by September and October 2020, Plaintiff’s lender informed Plaintiff it
would fund the entire Purchase Price without down payment because of the TIs
plaintiff had constructed; (3) On May 26, 2021, Zions Bank committed to loaning
Plaintiff $8,725,000 for this deal; and (4) Plaintiff continues to be contacted
by lenders asking about the status of the prospective purchase price. 
However,
while Plaintiff’s opposition references these four instances as “evidence,” it
provides no actual evidence such as deposition testimony or declarations or
exhibits as to these four claimed propositions. 
Plaintiff’s opposition as to this part of the motion does not cite to
any attached or concurrently filed evidence.  The Separate Statement does not cite to anything
except paragraph 33 of the Kenneally Declaration which then notes three
unattached exhbits.  Further, this is
clearly distinguishable from Henry. The circumstances analyzed in Henry
involved the selling of a former property, the owning of an apartment complex,
and the purchasing of a similar property. These circumstances are not present
in the case at bar, nor are they even alleged. Instead, Plaintiff attempts to
draw an analogy to Henry despite the conclusory statement that the
evidence will show that they had a other loan opportunities. In fact, this
Court notes that this analysis is in line with the case relied on by Defendant,
Sharlyn Estates, where, as noted above, that “[a] purchaser without
funds of his own may show that he was ready and able to pay the
purchase price because he had made arrangements to borrow the required funds
from a lending institution or from a third party, but if he relies upon the
negotiation of a loan from a third party, the buyer must prove: (1) that the
third party was legal bound by contract to advance the funds.” (Sharlyn
Estates, supra, 225 Cal.App.2d at 539-40.) Here, because Plaintiff has no
proof, that on their own, they had the funds, Plaintiff is required to PROVE
that the third-party banks were legally bound, by contract, to advance the
funds. There is no evidence presented by Plaintiff, besides the Declaration of
Keith A. Kenneally (“Kenneally Decl.”). Paragraph 33 of the Kenneally
Declaration asserts to attach Exhibits HH, II, and JJ to support these
allegations, however, the Court cannot find any documents in the nine (9)
exhibit lists submitted on behalf of Plaintiff entitled Exhibits HH, II, or JJ.

Moreover,
Defendant has provided evidence that pursuant to the PSA, there was a
definitive deadline for close of escrow – 15 days after map recordation – and
to accommodate Plaintiff, Defendant gave Plaintiff extra time, first to October
12 and then to October 30, 2020. This fact is another distinction from the Henry,
where the property sale contract did not have a specified date. Additionally,
Plaintiff again tries to draw an analogy to Ninety-Nine Investments, LTD. V.
Overseas Courier Service (Singapore) Private, LTD. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 1118, despite this Court indicating in its January 31, 2023 ruling
on demurrer that the two cases are inherently factually distinguishable as
there is no allegation that PSIP itself caused the delay in recording the Tract
Map or that PSIP breached any of its express seller’s obligations in the
attached PSA. 
Now,
Plaintiff is citing to Ninety Nine, noting the reviewing court in Ninety
Nine found that even though the buyer’s ability to fund with a loan was not
a contingency (similar to the facts of this case), the buyer had the right to
fund with a loan as the deal was not an “all cash” deal (also similar to the
facts of this case). (Id. at 1130– 31, see also fn. 7.) However, the Court cannot
locate and review the evidence identified in Kenneally Declaration but not
attached to the exhibit compendium (Exhibits HH, II, and JJ) bearing on the claimed
triable issues of fact exist as to whether Plaintiff was ready, willing, and able
to purchase the property. As such, the Court will likely continue the hearing once
the Plaintiff can point this Court to the claimed evidence the Court cannot
find in the filed exhibits nor in Plaintiff’s separate statement. 
            Without access to the alleged potential evidence
Plaintiff may have, the Court cannot decide whether Plaintiff is able to carry
its shifted burden by proving that the evidence demonstrates that triable
issues of material fact exist. 
 