 Case Number:  23TRCV01402    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  8  
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  March 27, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  23TRCV01402 CASE NAME: O.R. Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc., et al. v. Cristina Ricalday, et al. MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Cristina Ricalday  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, O.R. Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc.; Omid Rabi Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc.; O.H. Barkhordar Dental Group, Inc.   TRIAL DATE:  Not Set    MOTION:  (1) Demurrer (2) Motion to StrikeTentative Rulings:  (1) CONTINUED to enable Plaintiff to file a Code-compliant opposition brief, hearing date to be discussed (2) CONTINUED for the same reason   I. BACKGROUNDOn May 3, 2023, Plaintiffs, O.R. Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc., Omid Rabi Barkhordar D.D.S., Inc., and O.H. Barkhordar Dental Group, Inc. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Cristina Ricalday, and DOES 1 through 100. On January 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (3) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; (4) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (5) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (6) Unfair Business Practices.   The Plaintiffs’ Complaint is based on the allegations that Defendant, Cristina Ricalday entered into a certain Proprietary Information Agreement (the “Agreement”), whereby Defendant Ricalday allegedly agreed not to disclose any of the Proprietary Information and Trade Secrets, and a series of related allegations and causes of action.     B. Procedural On February 1, 2024, Defendant, Cristina Ricalday filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On March 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition papers. On March 20, 2024, Defendant Ricalday filed reply briefs.  ¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS Defendant Ricalday demurs as to all causes of action on the grounds that she argues each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action and are all uncertain.  Defendant Ricalday’s Motion to Strike seeks to strike phrases as they relate to exemplary and punitive damages.   III. ANALYSIS  As a preliminary matter, this Court notes, as does Defendant in its reply brief, that Plaintiff’s opposition violates California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(d).  That Rule states, “[e]xcept in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.” Here, Plaintiff’s opposition papers include a memorandum of points and authorities that is seventeen (17) pages long, clearly exceeding the fifteen (15) page maximum. This Court also notes that Plaintiff has not filed an ex parte written notice of application, served on the other party, at least twenty-four (24) hours before the memorandum is due, for permission to file a longer memorandum pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(e). Thus, this Court will consider continuing the hearing if Plaintiff offers to re-submit an opposition brief within the next 7 calendar days that complies with the Rules of Court.    IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, and assuming Plaintiffs would prefer a continuance as opposed to declining to consider the non-compliant brief, Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike are CONTINUED on counsel’s representation that a Code-compliant brief will be filed within the next 7 days.     Unless waived, notice to be given by defense counsel.     

