 Case Number:  23STLC03936    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  26  
Chen v. Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills (NDBH), et
al.DEMURRER;
MOTION TO STRIKE(CCP §§ 430.31, et seq., 435, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Armand
Newman, Inc. dba Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills’s Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR FRAUD. 
 
Defendant Armand
Newman, Inc. dba Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills’s Motion to Strike Portions
of the Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Jimmy
Chen (“Plaintiff”), in pro per, filed the instant action for breach of contract
and fraud against Defendant Armand Newman, Inc. dba Newman Dermatology Beverly
Hills (“Defendant”) (erroneously sued as Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills
(NDBH)) on June 22, 2023. The First Amended Complaint was filed on August 30,
2023. On November 6, 2023, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the
breach of contract cause of action in the First Amended Complaint and sustained
the demurrer to the fraud cause of action with leave to amend. (Minute Order,
11/06/23.) The Court also granted Defendant’s Motion to Strike portions of the
First Amended Complaint asking for leave to allege punitive damages and seeking
attorney’s fees. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff filed
the Second Amended Complaint on November 17, 2024, again alleging breach of contract
and fraud. Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike
Portions of, the Second Amended Complaint on December 18, 2023. Plaintiff filed
oppositions on December 27, 2023 and Defendant replied on January 11, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendant again demurs to the fraud cause of action on grounds of failure
to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e).) The Demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration that substantially complies with
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Masutani Decl., ¶4.) 
 
The elements of fraud are (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity
(or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal.
(2009) 45 Cal. 4th 1244, 1255.) It is also black letter law that fraud must be alleged with specificity,
meaning that the pleadings must allege facts as to “‘how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.
App. 3d 59, 73.) The Second Amended Complaint alleges two different theories of
fraud. First, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant misrepresented that Plaintiff
had agreed to pay for additional treatments to justify denial of those
treatments when Plaintiff would not pay. (SAC, ¶22.) This does not amount to
fraud because there is no allegation that Plaintiff relied on the
misrepresentation or was damaged by it.
 
Separately, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant misrepresented
their ability to remove sunspots from Plaintiff’s face as routine and easily
done. (Id. at ¶23.) Plaintiff allegedly relied on the misrepresentation
by entering into the agreement to their financial detriment after the treatment
was unsuccessful. (Ibid.) As previously argued and pointed out,
representations of future events are deemed non-actionable opinions under the
law. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.¿(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 158.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not address this case law. Therefore, the
demurrer to the second cause of action for fraud is sustained. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendant moves to strike the portion of the Second Amended Complaint in
which Plaintiff asks for emotional distress damages. (SAC, p. 4 at ¶1). The
Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, on the
grounds that the Court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) As with
the Demurrer, Defendant has filed the required meet and confer declaration
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5. (Motion, Maustani Decl.,
¶4.)
 
The request for emotional distress damages is improper on an action for
breach of contract. (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 558.) As
the demurrer to the fraud cause of action has been sustained, Plaintiff cannot
seek emotional distress damages. Therefore, the Motion to Strike is
granted. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff
has now had previous chances to amend but not cured the defects regarding the
second cause of action for fraud and requests for damages. Leave to amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Armand
Newman, Inc. dba Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills’s Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION FOR FRAUD. 
 
Defendant Armand Newman, Inc. dba
Newman Dermatology Beverly Hills’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second
Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 