 Case Number:  23STCV11500    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 17, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Bill Sezate v. Additive Circuits
Technologies, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11500            
 
MOTION
TO DISMISS OR STAY ACTION FOR FORUM NON CONVENIENS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Additive Circuits Technologies, LLC and Dennis
Brown
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Bill
Sezate
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/22/23: Complaint filed.
·        
05/23/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
07/10/23: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
02/27/24: Cross-Complaint dismissed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract, fraud, defamation, and
declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants terminated his employment
as CEO of Additive Circuits Technologies on false pretenses to avoid providing
him the compensation and ownership interest due to him under the agreement. 
 
Defendants move to dismiss, or, in
the alternative, stay this action on the grounds of forum non conveniens.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss for
Forum Non Conveniens is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to dismiss, or, in
the alternative, stay this action on the grounds of forum non conveniens. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
410.30(a), which codifies the doctrine of forum non conveniens, states: “When a
court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state,
the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just.” “On a motion for forum non conveniens, the
defendant, as the moving party, bears the burden of proof. The granting or
denial of such a motion is within the trial court's discretion, and substantial
deference is accorded its determination in this regard.”  (Stangvik v.
Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751, bold emphasis added.) 
 
In determining whether to grant a
motion based on forum non conveniens, a court must first determine whether the
alternate forum is a “suitable” place for trial. If it is, the next step is to
consider the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public
in retaining the action for trial in California. The private interest factors
are those that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment
expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources
of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability
of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public
interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested
calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not
called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little concern,
and weighing the competing interests of California and the alternate
jurisdiction in the litigation.
 
(Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d 744, 751
[Citations omitted].) 
 
The balancing of private and
public interests is a task squarely within the trial court's discretion. . . As
noted in Stangvik, the analysis is twofold. "In determining whether
to grant a motion based on forum non conveniens, the court first must make a
threshold determination whether the alternate forum is a suitable place for
trial. This is a nondiscretionary determination.” Indeed, in Stangvik
the Supreme Court expressly rejected defendants' suggestion that the
suitability of the alternative forum is part of the discretionary determination
of the balance of conveniences. ¿ Only if it finds the alternative forum
suitable does the court proceed to the discretionary exercise of balancing the
private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in retaining
the action in California. In assessing suitability, however, "There is no
balancing of interests in this decision, nor any discretion to be
exercised." . . . .¿ 
 
(American Cemwood Corp. v. American Home Assurance Co.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 436 [Citations omitted].) 
 
//
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Complaint filed by Defendant
Additive Circuits Technologies, LLC in the Court of Chancery for the State of
Delaware in the action titled Additive Circuits Technologies, LLC v. Sezate.
Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d) (court
records). 
 
Timeliness of Motion
 
            Plaintiff objects
to Defendants’ motion on the grounds that it was not brought within a
reasonable time. 
 
            A motion to
dismiss under section 410.30 must be presented within a reasonable time, and
relief will not be granted where the moving party unreasonably delayed in
bringing the motion. (See, e.g., Trident Labs, Inc. v. Merrill Lynch
Commercial Finance Corp. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 147, 155-57.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants unreasonably delayed in not bringing this motion for one
year since the action commenced. Plaintiff also contends that Defendants
litigated this case during that period by filing an Answer and Cross-Complaint
in July 2023 and by participating in case management conferences and setting a
trial date. Plaintiff cites no authority for the position that this activity
constitutes litigation of the claims for an unreasonable period. Indeed, as
Defendants argue in reply, well-settled precedent holds that a defendant may
make a forum non conveniens motion at any time. (E.g., Britton v. Dallas
Airmotive Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 127, 133.) Rather, the relevant
inquiry is whether Defendants engaged in more substantial activity, such as
serving and responding to discovery (e.g., Roulier v. Cannondale (2002)
101 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1191), or otherwise engaging in “extensive” litigation.
(See, e.g., Trident Labs, supra, 200 Cal.App.4th at 155-57
[motion filed after 19 months of “extensive” litigation].) Here, Plaintiff
concedes in its papers that Defendants have not responded to discovery served
upon them, and the Court observes that Defendants have also filed motions for
protective orders based on the forum non conveniens issue. No other substantive
motions have been filed, nor hearing dates for other motions reserved. 
 
            The Court
is not persuaded that the minimal activity in this case renders Defendants’
delay in bringing this motion an unreasonable delay. Plaintiff’s waiver
objection is not well-taken, and the Court will consider Defendants’ motion on
its merits. 
 
Forum Selection Clause
 
            Defendants
argue that they are entitled to dismissal of this action because it is subject
to a mandatory forum selection clause in the employment agreement between the
parties. 
 
            As a
technical matter, the Employment Contract around which this dispute revolves is
not attached to any of the pleadings filed by any of the parties in this
action, even though it is referenced by all parties. Defendants have requested
judicial notice of a Complaint filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery which
includes, as an attached exhibit, an employment agreement dated May 1, 2022
bearing Plaintiff’s name and apparent signature and which matches the
description of the agreement in the moving papers and contains excerpts identical
to those quoted by the parties. (E.g., Defendants’ RJN Exh. A. ¶ 12.5; Memo of
Ps. & As. p.5:21-24.) As the parties do not dispute the existence of the
agreement or its contents, notwithstanding their disagreement over its
interpretation, the Court construes this exhibit as the Employment Agreement
and will rule in reference to this document. 
 
            Paragraph
12.5 of the Agreement states:
 
The interpretation,
performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware without giving effect to any conflict of law provisions.
The parties hereto consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state
and federal courts located in the State of Delaware with respect to all claims
and disputes between or among the parties hereto with respect to the subject
matter hereof.
 
(RJN Exh. A. § 12.5 [emphasis added].) Defendants argue that
this is a mandatory forum selection clause which applies to this case because
all of Plaintiff’s claims either directly concern the agreement or arise out of
the agreement. A forum selection clause may be either “mandatory” or
“permissive.” (Animal Film, Inc. v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc. (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 466, 475.) Clauses which contain “language of exclusivity” are
mandatory, whereas clauses which merely provide for submission to jurisdiction
are permissive. (Id. at 472.) Mandatory forum selection clauses are
given effect without regard to the convenience of the parties unless
enforcement would be unfair or unreasonable. (Richtek USA, Inc. v. UPI
Semiconductor Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 661.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the clause is not mandatory because “[t]he parties’ consent to the
‘exclusive’ jurisdiction of Delaware courts relates only to their willingness
and consent to be sued in Delaware but does not mean that any lawsuit must be
filed only there.” (Opposition p.8:12-14.) To the contrary, the plain meaning
of “exclusive jurisdiction” is that only the courts specified, to the exclusion
of all others, have authority to hear the dispute. This conclusion is not
weakened by other provisions in the contract that reference a “court of competent
jurisdiction” (e.g., § 12.2), as Plaintiff claims, because it is section 12.5
that defines which courts have competent jurisdiction. Plaintiff’s
citation to Animal Film is entirely unavailing, as the forum selection
clause in that case expressly did not include language selecting a forum to the
exclusion of all others, but rather merely expressed consent to the
jurisdiction of the chosen forum. (Animal Film, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th
at 471.) The Court finds that section 12.5 is a mandatory forum selection
clause that must be given effect unless enforcement is unfair or unreasonable. 
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that his fourth cause of action for slander per se is not subject
to the forum selection clause because it does not concern the subject matter of
the agreement. This argument is belied by the First Amended Complaint itself,
however, which alleges that Defendants’ explanation for Plaintiff’s
termination—i.e., negligence in performance of job duties and withholding
material information from the Board of Directors—was slanderous. (FAC ¶ 25.)
These allegations directly concern Plaintiff’s employment, and therefore the
subject matter of the Employment Agreement. 
 
Public Policy
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the forum selection clause should not be enforced because doing so
would substantially diminish his rights in a manner contrary to California
public policy. 
 
            California
courts regularly refuse to enforce forum selection clauses where the rights of
a party in the selected forum are weakened contrary to the State’s public
policy. For example, in EpicentRx, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 890, the Court of Appeal affirmed a trial court’s refusal to
enforce a forum selection clause specifically designating the Delaware Court of
Chancery as the exclusive forum because litigants do not have a right to a
civil jury trial in that forum. (EpicentRx, Inc., supra, 95 Cal.App.5th
at 899-900; see also G. Companies Management, LLC v. LREP Arizona, LLC
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 342, 350 [transaction usurious under California law but
not in chosen forum]; Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 141, 147 [California Labor Code claims prevent enforcement of Texas
forum selection clause].) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that enforcement of the forum selection clause would severely diminish
his rights because section 8 of the agreement contains a non-competition and
non-solicitation clause which is unenforceable under California law. (See RJN
Exh. A. § 8.) The enforceability of this provision is the express subject of
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for declaratory relief. (FAC ¶¶ 29-31.)
Non-competition and non-solicitation clauses are, as a general rule, void under
California law, subject to certain statutory exceptions not relevant here. (Bus
& Prof. Code §§ 16600-16607; Lab. Code § 925; Edwards v. Arthur Andersen
LLP (2008) 44 Cal.4th 937, 948.) An agreement may not escape this rule by a
choice of law provision, as the Court is not bound to enforce a choice of law
provision contrary to California public policy. (Application Group, Inc. v.
Hunter Group, Inc. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 881, 902.) In contrast to the
California standard, Delaware law generally permits non-compete agreements which
“(1) [are] reasonable in geographic scope and temporal duration, (2) advance a
legitimate economic interest of the party seeking its enforcement, and (3)
survive a balancing of the equities.” (FP UC Holdings, LLC v. Hamilton (Del.
Ch. 2020) 2020 WL 1492783 at *7.)[1] 
 
             In reply, Defendants assert that there is no
conflict of laws here because subdivision (e) of Labor Code section 925 governs
choice of law or forum provisions presented as a condition of employment. Under
this section, such provisions are void except when the employee is in fact
individually represented by counsel in negotiating the agreement. (Labor Code §
925(e).) Defendants provide no evidence, however, for the assertion that
Plaintiff was represented by legal counsel in negotiating the agreement. 
 
            Moreover,
Defendants’ alternative argument that Delaware courts abide by the Restatement
(Second) of Conflict of Laws, and, therefore, that Delaware courts have a
process for addressing Plaintiff’s concerns, misses the forest for the trees.
First, the plain language of the agreement also expressly disregards
Delaware conflict of law provisions, which casts significant doubt on
Defendants’ presumption that Delaware courts could chose to enforce California
law in this instance. (RJN Exh. A. § 12.5.) Second, under California law,
Plaintiff is entitled to maintain his declaratory relief claim challenging the
noncompete clause, notwithstanding the choice of law provision. If the case
were dismissed in California and brought in Delaware, Plaintiff would be
deprived of that protection unless the Delaware Court of Chancery both declined
to enforce the choice of law provision and determined that California
law should govern the declaratory relief claim under Delaware choice of law
principles. In the Court’s view, this scenario constitutes exactly the sort of
weakening of Plaintiff’s rights which requires refusal to enforce a forum selection
clause. 
 
            In summary,
although Defendants have demonstrated the presence of a mandatory forum
selection clause in the underlying Employment Agreement, the Court declines to
enforce that clause because doing so would substantially weaken Plaintiff’s
rights vis a vis the non-compete provision in violation of California public
policy. 
 
            As to the
alternative argument that the Court should stay the action pending resolution
of Defendant’s subsequent Delaware action, Defendants cite no authority
requiring the Court to do so, and Defendants’ arguments concerning duplication
of discovery efforts and inconsistent rulings are not well-taken. The Delaware
action was filed second in time after Defendants voluntarily dismissed their
cross-complaint here. Any risks of inconsistent rulings or duplication of
discovery are of Defendants’ own making.  
            
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss for Forum Non Conveniens is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 17, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 


