  Case Number:  19STCV12435    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 17, 2024             TRIAL DATE: September
10, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         AMG & Associates, LLC, et al. v.
Housing Preservation, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV12435            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs AMG & Associates, LLC and Affordable
Housing Acquisition Partnership.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Housing
Preservation Inc., Silver Tree Residential LLC, Casa La Merced, L.P., SPE
Merced, LLC, and Doug Gilland
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for conversion and breach of contract filed on April
10, 2019. Plaintiffs allege that, after contracting with Defendants Gilland and
Silver Tree to purchase a parcel of low-income elderly housing, Defendants
conspired to sabotage Plaintiffs’ efforts so that Defendants Housing Preservation,
SPE Merced, and Casa La Merced could instead take ownership of the subject
property. 
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to
File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to serve and
file a clean standalone copy of the First Amended Complaint within 5 days of
this order.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
//
Defendants’ Late Opposition
 
            Defendants’
opposition to this motion was served and filed on May 7, 2024, eight court days
before the scheduled May 17, 2024 hearing date. Code of Civil Procedure section
1005(b) requires that an opposition to a regularly noticed motion must be
served no less than nine court days before the scheduled hearing. The
deadline for serving and filing this opposition was therefore May 6, 2024, and
the opposition is therefore untimely. That said, notwithstanding Plaintiffs’
objections, the Court finds that this delay was not prejudicial insofar as
Plaintiffs timely prepared and served a substantive reply brief. The Court will
therefore exercise its discretion to consider the merits of the opposition. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court may, “at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, . . . allow the amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading before trial must meet the following
requirements:
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.)
 
Contents of Motion
 
            Although a
copy of the proposed pleading is not directly attached to the motion,
Plaintiffs have attached a copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint to the
Declaration of Julie Herzog in support of the Motion, in substantial compliance
with Rule 3.1324(a)(1). (Declaration of Julie A. Herzog ISO Mot. Exh. 1.) The
motion expressly states which allegations are being added or removed by page
and paragraph, but not by line number, as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2) and
(a)(3). However, the Herzog Declaration also includes a redlined copy of the
proposed pleading which indicates the specific lines that are to be amended or
altered. (Id. Exh. 7.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs have
substantially complied with Rule 3.1324(a)(2) and (a)(3), and therefore substantially
complied with Rule 3.1324(a) in totality.
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            The
Declaration of Julie Herzog in support of the Motion describes the effects of
the amendments in substantial detail, and states that the amendments clarify
various factual allegations based on the products of discovery (¶¶ 7(a)-7c),
add new causes of action for intentional and negligent interference with
contract and misrepresentation (¶¶7(d)-7(e)), and reorder the remaining causes
of action based on the Court’s prior rulings and the proposed amendments, while
excising the claims on which summary adjudication was granted. (¶¶ 7(f)-(k).) This
declaration satisfies the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b)(1). 
 
The declaration does not state why
the amendments are necessary and proper, and nor do the moving papers. Although
amendments to reflect evidence unearthed in discovery or to reflect the Court’s
rulings are necessary and proper on their face, Plaintiffs do not explain why
it is necessary and proper to assert a claim for “negligent interference with
contract” where no such tort exists under California law. (See Herzog Decl.
Exh. A. ¶¶ 16-20.) That said, as the bulk of the amendments seek to add
colorable claims or to correct the pleadings to reflect the present status of
the case, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have substantially complied with Rule
3.1324(b)(2). 
 
Turning to subdivision (b)(3), the
Declaration states that depositions took place between October 25, 2023 and
January 26, 2024, during which time Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment was
pending and subsequently ruled upon. (Herzog Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) As the amendments
are based on the evidence unearthed in those depositions and on the Court’s
ruling on that motion for summary judgment, Plaintiffs have substantially
complied with Rule 3.1324(b)(3). 
 
Plaintiffs state that amendment was
not sought earlier because of numerous delays in the case for various causes,
including the COVID-19 pandemic, an informal agreement to stay depositions
pending settlement negotiations, and Plaintiffs’ counsel sustaining injuries in
September of 2022, as well as the timing of depositions and Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment. (Herzog Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs have thus demonstrated
compliance with Rule 3.1324(b)(4), and therefore with Rule 3.1324(b) in its
entirety.
 
Defendants’ Opposition
 
Defendants first argue that leave
to amend should not be granted because Plaintiffs were tardy in bringing this
motion. According to Defendants, the basis for this motion was revealed to
Plaintiffs in their April 15, 2022 document production, which, Defendants
claim, disclosed that Doug Gilland had been communicating with one of the
Seller’s board members as early as January 2016, not May or June, as had been
believed. (Declaration of Scott Halberstadt ISO Opp. ¶ 3.)  In reply, Plaintiffs argue that these materials
were disclosed in a bulk production which required Gilland’s deposition
testimony to be fully understood, and several relevant documents were not
contained in Defendants’ production. (Supplemental Declaration of Julie Herzog
ISO Reply ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs also account for the delay in bringing this motion,
as discussed above. The Court is therefore not persuaded that leave to amend
should be denied on this basis.
 
Defendants also argue that if
amendment is permitted, they will be severely prejudiced because the new
allegations will substantially alter the posture of the case on the eve of
trial by asserting new legal theories and a novel “non-circumvention”
agreement. But the Court has already continued trial to September 10, 2024 with
all related dates, pursuant to stipulation of the parties, to permit hearing this
motion. (April 24, 2024 Minute Order.) Thus, the risk of prejudice to
Defendants is substantially reduced, especially where, as here, the allegations
are principally based on evidence already unearthed in discovery. The Court
therefore rejects Defendants’ prejudice arguments.
 
Finally, Defendants argue that
amendment would be futile because the new causes of action would be subject to
demurrer or judgment on the pleadings. The Court is not inclined to address the
merits of a proposed pleading in the context of an opposition motion for leave
to amend. Rather, such arguments are better raised in a noticed motion, which,
in light of the stipulation to continue trial, Defendants now have time to
serve and file should they wish to do so. 
 
           Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, the Court finds good cause to permit Plaintiffs to
file their First Amended Complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to
File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to serve and
file a clean standalone copy of the First Amended Complaint within 5 days of
this order.
 
Moving parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 17, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 