 Case Number:  24NWCV00580    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC SOLIS V. DAVIS, ET AL.CASE NO.: 24NWCV00580HEARING: 12/18/2024#6TENTATIVE ORDERPursuant to Roldan v. Callahan & Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87, Defendant can elect to pay Plaintiff’s share of the arbitration fees or waive the right to arbitrate Plaintiff’s claim.Moving party to give notice.Vincent W. Davis (Defendant) moves the Court for an order compelling Sara Solis (Plaintiff) to arbitrate all claims and stay this action pending arbitration.BackgroundThis is a legal malpractice action. On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Vincent W. Davis and Joyce Hope Vega alleging four causes of action: (1) professional negligence, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) conversion. Defendants substituted in as Plaintiff’s counsel in a separate proceeding in 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that during that proceeding, Defendants sought multiple continuances of trial extending the five-year statute deadline and failed to make timely filings ultimately leading to the Court dismissing Plaintiff’s complaint with prejudice. (Complaint, ¶¶ 38-55.)Legal StandardUnder both the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)Under the FAA, general contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability, may provide grounds for invalidating an arbitration agreement if they are enforced evenhandedly and do not interfere with fundamental attributes of arbitration. (9 U.S.C.A. § 1 et seq.) To invalidate an arbitration provision, a plaintiff must show that it is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Eng'g, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal. App. 4th 1042, 1053; Chemours Co. v. DowDuPont Inc. (2020) No. CV 2019-0351- SG, 2020 WL 1527783, at *12.) “A court should consider substantive unconscionability only after procedural unconscionability has been established.” (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, 494.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1280-81.)DiscussionDefendant moves to enforce the arbitration provision in the attorney client fee agreement (Agreement) entered into by the parties on September 30, 2019. Defendant provides a copy of the Agreement. (Davis Decl., Exh. A.) The arbitration provision states:11. ARBITRATION OF FEE OR OTHER DISPUTES:11.1 Any dispute between Client and Attorney as to the reasonable value of services under this Agreement shall be arbitrated under the provisions of the State Bar Fee Arbitration Program by the Los Angeles County Fee Arbitration Program.11.2 Any dispute (other than one concerning legal fees only), including, but not limited set forth in section 6200-6206 of the California Business and Professions Code, disputes as to the quality of Attorneys’ services, breach of fiduciary duties, fraud or any other aspect of the attorney-client relationship, will be determined by submission to binding arbitration as provided by California law, and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process, except as California law provides for judicial review or arbitration proceedings. Client may also have the right, under California law to mandatory nonbinding arbitration before a binding arbitration. If Client is entitled to and asks for, nonbinding arbitration, and Client and/or Attorney is/are unhappy with the result, it will be followed by binding arbitration. All parties to this Agreement, by entering into it, are giving up their rights to have any dispute decided in a court of law before a judge or jury and instead, are accepting the use of arbitration11.3 By signing this Agreement, Client is consenting to binding arbitration of any and all disputesThe Court finds Defendant has proven the existence of a valid, signed arbitration agreement with Plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of an arbitration agreement. Rather, Plaintiff argues that due to her limited financial means, this agreement is unconscionable and unenforceable unless Defendants pay all arbitration fees.UnconscionabilityPlaintiff argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because it denies her of a forum to litigate her claims. In support of this argument, Plaintiff relies on Roldan v. Callahan & Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87 (Roldan) and Aronow v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 865 (Aronow). In Roldan, the California Court of Appeals reviewed a trial court decision to deny a motion seeking an order to compel a defendant to advance the upfront cost of an arbitration forum. (Roldan, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at 89.) The Roldan court declined to reach the issue of whether arbitration agreements are unenforceable based on a plaintiff’s ability to pay but concluded that plaintiffs who were granted permission to proceed in forma pauperis in trial court can be excluded from the obligation to pay arbitration fees. (Id. at 95.) Therefore, the court gave the defendant a choice: “if the trial court determines that any of these plaintiffs is unable to share in the cost of the arbitration, [defendant] can elect to either pay that plaintiff's share of the arbitration cost and remain in arbitration or waive its right to arbitrate that plaintiff's claim.” (Id. at 96.) In reaching this conclusion, the court reasoned “to rule otherwise might effectively deprive [plaintiffs] of access to any forum for resolution of their claims against [defendant].” (Ibid.)The Court of Appeals in Aronow affirmed Roldan in deciding that a trial court which grants a defendant’s petition to compel arbitration has jurisdiction to lift a stay when a plaintiff demonstrates a financial inability to pay arbitration costs. (Aronow, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at 870.) The court in Aronow concluded:In response to a petition to compel arbitration, a litigant who claims financial inability to pay the arbitrator's fee could submit the Judicial Council application form and the financial statement prescribed by Government Code section 68633, subdivisions (c)(1) and (c)(2). “The court may delegate to the clerk the authority to grant applications for an initial fee waiver that meet the standards of eligibility and application requirements set forth in Sections 68632 and 68633.” (Gov. Code, § 68634, subd. (d).) Where a party seeking relief from paying the arbitrator's fee is one of the persons enumerated in Government Code section68632’s list of persons “eligible to proceed without paying court fees and costs,” the decision would be ministerial.(Id. at 884.)Here, Plaintiff is not opposed to arbitration and only takes issue with the associated fees. Plaintiff has already submitted the Judicial Council application, and this Court granted a fee waiver based on Plaintiff’s economic status. (Request to Waive Court Fees, 02/23/2024.) Prior to filing this case, Plaintiff’s counsel requested Defendants pay the arbitration fees, but did not receive a response. (Moore Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) Defendant did not raise this issue in his moving papers nor file a reply.Given Plaintiff’s financial status and that she would be deprived of a forum in which to litigate her claims, the Court follows the direction of the Roldan court and provides a choice to Defendant: Defendant can elect to pay Plaintiff’s share of the arbitration fees or waive the right to arbitrate Plaintiff’s claim.