 Case Number:  23NWCV00716    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC GATEWOOD, ET AL. V. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.CASE NO.: 23NWCV00716HEARING: 12/18/2024#11TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiffs Sheena Gatewood and Isaac Luke’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s PMQ is GRANTED.II. Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.Sheena Gatewood and Isaac Luke (Plaintiffs) move the Court for an order compelling American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant) to produce a person most qualified and custodian of records (PMQ).BackgroundThis lemon law action was filed on March 9, 2023, and involves a new 2022 Honda Accord (Subject Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges two causes of action against Defendant: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty and (2) fraudulent inducement – concealment. Plaintiffs alleges Defendant did not disclose and actively concealed a defect in the Subject Vehicle known as the “Honda Sensing Defect.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 11, 25.)Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section¿2025.450 subd. (a), a party may move to compel a deponent’s attendance and production for inspection of documents if after serving the deposition notice the responding party fails to serve valid objections and fails to appear for the deposition or produce any document described in the deposition notice. A motion under Code of Civil Procedure section¿2025.450 subd. (a) must (1) provide specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document and (2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450 subd. (b).)“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450 subd. (g)(1).)Meet and ConferUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040, “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” “[W]hen the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)Here, the parties have not adequately met and conferred. Counsel for Plaintiffs sent one meet and confer letter addressing deficiencies in Defendant’s objections. (Tran Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. D.) Plaintiffs have not stated whether there was any response or subsequent meet and confer efforts. Further, Plaintiffs took a nonappearance on the June 18, 2024, deposition, after Defendant stated it will not provide a witness to appear. (Tran Decl., ¶ 10.) The parties’ emails scheduling a deposition date or sending a meet and confer letter do not constitute sufficient meet and confer efforts.DiscussionPlaintiffs move the Court for an order compelling Defendant to produce a person most qualified and custodian of records (PMQ).On April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs unilaterally noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ for June 18, 2024. (Tran Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. A.) On June 10, 2024, Defendant served a response with objections to the notice of deposition and stated it will not produce a witness for the June 18, 2024, deposition date. (Tran Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. C.) Counsel for Plaintiffs, Thach Tran (Tran), states Defendant did not propose alternative dates. (Tran Decl., ¶ 7.) However, counsel for Defendant, Jeffrey M. Tsair (Tsair), includes an exhibit offering February 5, 2025, as an alternative date for the deposition. (Tsair Decl., ¶ 10. Exh. A.) On June 18, 2024, Tran appeared for the deposition through a video link and took a nonappearance. (Tran Decl., ¶ 10.) To date, no deposition of Defendant’s PMQ has taken place. Defendant has not provided alternative deposition dates nor responded to requests for alternative deposition dates for a deposition. (Tran Decl., ¶ 11.)Upon review of Defendant’s Opposition, the Court notes that Defendant does not oppose producing its PMQ. Rather, Defendant argues that the failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition was due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect; and that Defendant’s objections are necessary.Objections to Matters for ExaminationPlaintiffs’ separate statement identifies issues for matter for examination nos. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 19, and 22.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 provides, in relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”Defendant objects to these requests on the basis they are vague, ambiguous, broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, argumentative, seek information protected by attorney-client privilege, and seek confidential information.For example, Plaintiffs put forth the following matters for examination:MATTER NO. 1:Design and manufacturing processes for the HONDA “SENSING” SYSTEM.MATTER NO. 4:All pre-release and post-release testing of the HONDA “SENSING” SYSTEM.MATTER NO. 5:All reports, surveys, and summaries, which identify safety concerns with the HONDA “SENSING” SYSTEM.MATTER NO. 22:The rate and frequency of warranty repairs to correct symptoms of the HONDA “SENSING” SYSTEM, including summaries, reports, and the repairs per thousand, for all of YOUR HONDA “SENSING” SYSTEM -equipped vehiclesUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230, Plaintiffs’ matters for examination are intended to guide Defendant in selecting a PMQ for deposition who is knowledgeable on the matters. The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ matters for examination are reasonably particularized. Defendant does not provide objections as to any error or irregularity in the deposition notice.Requests for ProductionDefendant objects to these requests for production on the basis they are vague, ambiguous, broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, argumentative, seek information protected by attorney-client privilege, and seek confidential information.A request for documents in conjunction with a deposition notice is not the equivalent of a request for production of documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. A request for production of documents in a deposition notice is intended to specify with reasonable particularity the materials or category of materials to be produced by the Defendant. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230 subd. (a)(4).) “Objections to the competency of the deponent, or to the relevancy, materiality, or admissibility at trial of the testimony or of the materials produced are unnecessary and are not waived by failure to make them before or during the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.460 subd. (c).)Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant’s PMQ is GRANTED. Defendant’s PMQ is ORDERED to appear for a deposition and produce the documents contained within the notice of deposition, without objection. Defendant has waived its objections to the document requests because it failed to object to them pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410. The parties shall meet and confer to determine the date, time, and location of the depositions, which shall take place no later than 10 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. The date may be extended by agreement of the parties.SanctionsThe Court declines to award sanctions. Here, while Defendant’s PMQ’s failed to appear for its duly noticed deposition, Plaintiff brought this motion and did not reply to Defendant’s proposed alternative date. Additionally, the parties failed to adequately meet and confer. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the amount of $2,468 is DENIED.