 Case Number:  22NWCV01724    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC CATERIANO V. DOE 1CASE NO.: 22NWCV01724HEARING: 12/18/2024#10TENTATIVE ORDERI. Defendant Doe 1’s demurrer to the first and second, and third causes of action is OVERRULED.II. Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days LEAVE TO AMEND.III. Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint for irrelevant or improper allegations is DENIED.IV. Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint seeking punitive damages is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.Doe 1 (Defendant) demurs to the first through third causes of action in Peter Gustavo Pacheco Cateriano’s (Plaintiff) second amended complaint (SAC). Defendant additionally seeks to strike portions of the SAC for irrelevant and improper allegations.BackgroundPlaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant on December 27, 2022. Plaintiff’s SAC alleges three causes of action: (1) sexual battery, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff, a self-represented litigant, alleges that in 1988, when Plaintiff was 8 years old, his half-brother, Defendant, “dropped my pants and throw me to the floor and try to penetrate me.” (SAC, ¶ 3.) It happened many more times for approximately 5 years, and later in life when Plaintiff stayed at Defendant’s place in the City of Downey. (SAC., ¶¶ 4-5.)On January 16, 2024, this Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint with leave to amend on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to submit a certificate of merit and certificate of corroborative fact. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff submit a certificate of corroborative facts and certificate of merit from a licensed mental health practitioner. On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff submit a declaration and certificate of merit by his counsel.Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 subd. (a).)Here, Defendant filed a declaration of demurring party regarding meet and confer in which he states that Plaintiff did not respond to meet and confer requests.Legal StandardDemurrer StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50.)Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)Motion to Strike StandardMotions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.).(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435-437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)DiscussionDefendant demurs to all three causes of action in Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds that the claims are time-barred and that Plaintiff fails to plead facts sufficient to support the causes of action.First Cause of Action – Sexual BatteryStatute of Limitations“In an action for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the time for commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the age of majority or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring after the age of majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires later, for…[a]n action against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 subd. (a) contains revival provisions. “[A] claim for damages described in paragraphs (1) through (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit had expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years of January 1, 2020.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 subd. (q); see also Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 subd. (r) “[t]he changes made to the time period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that amended this subdivision in 2019 apply… to any action filed before the date of enactment, and still pending on that date, including any action or causes of action that would have been barred by the laws in effect before the date of enactment.”)Here, Plaintiff alleges he was first sexually battered when he was eight years old in approximately 1988. (SAC, ¶ 3.) This occurred on multiple occasions for approximately five years, until Defendant reached legal age. (SAC, ¶ 4.) This occurred again in Los Angeles County in 1995 once Plaintiff was fifteen years old. (SAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff would have been forty years old in 2020. Therefore, having brought the claim in 2022, the claim is time-barred unless he filed the claim within five years of the date of discovery or it is otherwise revived.In opposition, Plaintiff argues the delayed discovery doctrine applies because he was unaware of the connection between his psychological injuries and the abuse until recent events of psychological trauma with Defendant. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that he discovered the psychological injuries by Defendant on February 3, 2024. This is the date Plaintiff executed a certificate of merit with licensed mental health practitioner, Dr. Algaed Mayorga. February 3, 2024, is also after Plaintiff filed the original complaint. The Court is not convinced that Plaintiff first discovered psychological injuries resulting from these allegations after filing the complaint.The Court finds that Plaintiff’s claim may be revived under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 subd. (q) because Plaintiff filed the complaint on December 27, 2022, which is within the three-year statutory revival deadline. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 subd. (q).) While Defendant argues that K.M. v. Grossmont Union High School Dist. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 717 states that Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 revival provisions do not apply retroactively, Defendant misstates the law. The court in K.M. v. Grossmont Union High School Dist., specifically states that Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1. subd. (b) regarding treble damages does not apply retroactively, but Code of Civil Procedure sections 340.1. (q) and (r) apply retroactively. (K.M. v. Grossmont Union High School Dist., supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 730, 743.)Sexual BatteryDefendant next argues that Plaintiff fails to plead facts sufficient to support its first cause of action.Civil Code section 1708.5, subd. (a), states that “[a] person commits a sexual battery who does any of the following: [¶] (1) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. [¶] (2) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. [¶] (3) Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results.” Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1708.5 makes “[a] person who commits a sexual battery upon another [] liable to that person for damages, including, but not limited to, general damages, special damages, and punitive damages.”As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendant’s demurrer and Plaintiff’s opposition both refer to a sexual assault cause of action. The Court will proceed to analyze this cause of action as sexual battery, as alleged in the SAC.The Court finds the SAC contains sufficient facts to sustain a cause of action for sexual battery. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “dropped my pants and throw me to the floor and try to penetrate me and not let me cry.” (SAC, ¶ 3.) This demonstrates acts with the intent to cause a harmful contact with the intimate part of another. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant took Plaintiff’s hand in his hand and performed a sexual act on himself without Plaintiff’s consent. (SAC, ¶ 5.1.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendant forced Plaintiff into oral sex without consent. (SAC, ¶ 5.2.) These facts demonstrate resulting sexually offensive contact. Therefore, the SAC pleads facts sufficient to sustain a cause of action for sexual battery. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.Second Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressStatute of LimitationsUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1, the statute of limitations to bring a personal injury cause of action is two years. However, in an action alleging childhood sexual statute, the statute of limitations in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 subd. (a) applies to “[a]n action for damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault. (See also Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1 subd. (a)(3), subdivision (a) applies in “[a]n action for liability against any person or entity if an intentional act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.”)Plaintiff’s SAC argues that the acts of sexually molesting Plaintiff supports a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Therefore, because Plaintiff’s intentional infliction of emotional distress claim falls under the scope of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 subd. (a), it is revived under section 340.1 subd. (q) revival provisions.Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) “There can be no recovery for mere profanity, obscenity, or abuse, without circumstances of aggravation, or for insults, indignities or threats which are considered to amount to nothing more than mere annoyances.”(Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1129.)Here, Plaintiff meets the first element by alleging Defendant sexually molested Plaintiff as a minor. (SAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges he suffered severe emotional distress including psychological injuries and illnesses which he identified were caused by the childhood sexual abuse later in life. (SAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff additionally alleges Defendant abused a relationship of trust and committed the acts knowing Plaintiff was susceptible to injuries because of his age. (SAC, ¶ 14.)Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer as to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.Statute of LimitationsPlaintiff’s third cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress is also revived. Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 subd. (a)(2) applies in “[a]n action for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.”Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically analyzed by reference to two theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks omitted.) “Direct victim theory involves a duty owed directly to the plaintiff ‘that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.’” (Ibid.)Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendant had a duty of care to not cause sexual, emotional, or psychological harm because Plaintiff was a minor. (SAC, ¶ 17.)However, this allegation does not state how Defendant owed a duty directly to Plaintiff and is not sufficient to constitute a “duty of care” in negligence.Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.Motion to StrikeDefendant seeks to strike portions of the SAC on the grounds they are irrelevant and improper or improperly seek punitive damages.Given the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 3, 4, 5.1-5.3 is DENIED.Given the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, and because Civil Code section 1708.5, subd. (b) supports punitive damages, Defendant’s motion to strike paragraph 11 and page 8 lines 26-27 is DENIED.Given the Court’s ruling on the second cause of action in the demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike paragraph 15 and page 9 lines 5 through 6 is DENIED. Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to support a finding of malice in its allegations that Defendant made fun of past sexual abuse.