 Case Number:  24NWCV01381    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC RAMOS V. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD, ET AL.CASE NO.: 24NWCV01381HEARING: 12/18/2024#8TENTATIVE ORDERCounsel Raymond Perez’s motion to be relieved as counsel is DENIED without prejudice.Moving party to give notice.BackgroundFrancisco Ramos (Plaintiff) filed this premises liability action on May 2, 2024. Counsel for Plaintiff, Raymond Perez (Counsel), moves to be relieved as counsel. As of this date, this motion is unopposed.Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an attorney’s motion to be relieved as counsel pursuant Code of CivilProcedure section 284, subd. (2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (Form MC-051); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subd. (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subd. (1) (Form MC-052); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (Form MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).)Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C).Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that the member engagein conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.DiscussionHere, Counsel has filed a notice of motion and motion on Form MC-051, a declaration on Form MC-052, and a proposed order on Form MC-053. Counsel has also supplied proof of service. The Court notes that the “Case Name” on Form MC-053 does not depict the name of the instant case.Further, the Court cannot determine whether good cause exists because Counsel has not provided any reasoning or justification. Counsel states that the reason he brings this motion is because Plaintiff has not responded to Counsel’s request to find new counsel. This is not enough information to support a finding of good cause.Accordingly, Counsel Raymond Perez’s motion to be relieved as counsel is DENIED without prejudice.