 Case Number:  23NWCV02632    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC MORA V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.CASE NO.: 23NWCV02632HEARING: 12/18/2024#4TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiff’s motion to vacate dismissal and place this matter back on calendar is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.Hector Mora (Plaintiff) moves pursuant to the mandatory relief provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subd. (b) to vacate dismissal and place this matter back on the calendar.On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss the complaint. On February 12, 2024, the Court dismissed the matter in its entirety.BackgroundThis personal injury action was filed on August 21, 2023. Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for premises liability against Los Angeles Unified School District, Los Angeles County Office of Education, County of Los Angeles, and City of Maywood (Defendants). Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to properly maintain a field on their premises. (Complaint, Attachment.) As a result of the failure to maintain the field or properly barricade it, Plaintiff fell and sustained injuries. (Complaint, Attachment).Legal StandardDiscretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties or legal representatives from “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).) “[T]he court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any…resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”“The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).)DiscussionPlaintiff now brings this motion to vacate dismissal and place the matter back on the calendar due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s inadvertence and mistake. As of this date, this motion is unopposed.Here, counsel for Plaintiff, Igor Fradkin (Counsel), filed the instant motion on March 11, 2024, which is within six months from February 2, 2024, the date the Court dismissed this action. “‘[W]hen relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82, citations omitted.) Thus, there is strong public policy in favor of granting Plaintiff’s motion to set aside dismissal.The Court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated excusable mistake and inadvertence. Counsel states that on February 2, 2024, he unintentionally requested to dismiss the case. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 4.) The request for dismissal was drafted by Defendant County of Los Angeles. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel unintentionally did not see that the request for dismissal sought to dismiss the complaint, rather than Defendant County of Los Angeles. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel made this mistake after a similar request for dismissal was filed dismissing only Defendant Los Angeles County Office of Education. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel learned about the error upon receiving the Court’s February 12, 2024, minute order. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 6.) Therefore, Counsel’s mistake and inadvertence was excusable within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subd. (b). Accordingly, based on the excusable mistake and public policy in favor of granting relief, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside dismissal is GRANTED.