 Case Number:  24NWCV01222    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC SADEGHI-MOVAHED V. BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, ET AL.CASE NO.: 24NWCV01222HEARING: 12/18/2024#7TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiff Negeen Sadeghi-Movahed’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 1-6 is DENIED.II. Plaintiff’s request to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 7-8 is DENIED.III. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 9-11 is GRANTED with the limitation that interrogatories are limited to the Subject Vehicle.IV. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 12-16 is GRANTED. Defendant is ORDERED to serve verified, code-compliant answers within 20 days of this Order.V. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.Negeen Sadeghi-Movahed (Plaintiff) moves the Court for an order compelling BMW North America, LLC (Defendant) to provide further responses without objections to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one (SROGs).BackgroundThis lemon law action was filed on April 18, 2024, involving Plaintiff’s new 2022 BMW 430i (Subject Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges six causes of action: (1) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, (2) failure to promptly repurchase or replace – Civil Code §§ 1793.2 subd. (d); (3) failure to commence repairs within a reasonable time and to complete them within 30 days – Civil Code § 1794, (4) violation of Civil Code § 1793.2 subd. (a)(3), (5) breach of express warranty, and (6) negligent repair. Plaintiff alleges the Subject Vehicle contains electrical and software defects, defects activating warning lights, braking defects, and parking sensor defects.Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 subd. (a), “[o]n receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7…against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (d).)Meet and ConferThe parties have complied with the meet and confer requirement. On July 24, 2024, the parties’ counsels discussed via phone call about the case and Defendant’s responses and objections. (Pardo Decl., ¶ 16.)DiscussionPlaintiff seeks further responses to Plaintiff’s SROGS, set one, nos. 1-16.Plaintiff served Defendant with SROGs, set one, on May 13, 2024, and granted an extension for responses by July 15, 2024. (Pardo Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7.) On July 15, 2024, Defendant served unverified responses. (Pardo Decl., ¶ 10.)Plaintiff argues Defendant’s July 15, 2024, responses were nonresponsive, evasive, incomplete, and contained general and boilerplate objections. In opposition, Defendant contends it supplemented its document production and SROGs, set one, responses code-compliant on August 7, 2024. (Silver Decl., ¶ 6.) In reply, Plaintiff argues that the SROG responses have not been supplemented or amended.Requests Nos. 1 through 6Defendant argues its supplemental responses to SROGS set one, nos. 1-6 are code-compliant because it exercised the option to produce documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230“If the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained. This specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.230.)For example, Defendant’s supplemental response to SROGs, set one, no. 6 is as follows:INTERROGATORY NO. 6:Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS concerning, reflecting, or memorializing any of YOUR internal communications concerning the SUBJECT VEHICLEDEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSE:BMW NA’s responses to the Interrogatories are in full compliance because it exercised its option to produce writings in response. The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be discovered; (2) An exercise of the party’s option to produce writings; (3) An objection to the particular interrogatory. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210 Subdivision (a).) BMW NA referred Plaintiff to specific documents in each of its responses as it is permitted to do so and there is no further obligation to amend or supplement its responses.Here, BMW NA exercised its option to produce the repair records, customer relations file, and warranty documents, which include all documents concerning, reflecting, or memorializing any of BMW NA’s internal communications concerning the Subject Vehicle.BMW NA served responses that exercised its option to produce documents, and specifically named the responsive documents. Plaintiff does not have any right to force BMW NA to respond in a certain way. BMW NA is permitted to exercise its option to produce a writing in response which is what it did. BMW NA has responded to the fullest extent at this point in time and no further responses are warranted.Here, Defendant identifies the documents and states the documents contain the internal communications. Defendant’s responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 1-5 are similar except they reference different documents. “[I]f a question doesrequire the responding party to make reference to a pleading or document, the pleading or document should be identified and summarized so the answer is fully responsive to the question.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 784.) Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant properly referred Plaintiff to responsive documents. Plaintiff’s request to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 1 through 6 is DENIED.Requests Nos. 7 and 8Defendant argues responsive documents to SROGs, set one, nos. 7 and 8 do not exist. SROGs, set one, nos. 7 and 8 are as follows:INTERROGATORY NO. 7:Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS evidencing or setting out YOUR rules, policies, or procedures for complying with the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act since the year 2021.INTERROGATORY NO. 8:Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS employed by YOU and YOUR agents or employees to effect compliance with the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as of the year 2021.Defendant argues there are no responsive documents, and instead explains its process to effect compliance with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 7-8 is DENIED.Requests Nos. 9 through 11SROGs, set one, nos. 9 through 11 are as follows:INTERROGATORY NO. 9:Please describe in detail YOUR rules, policies, and procedures (if any) for complying with the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as of the year 2021.INTERROGATORY NO. 10:Please describe in detail the rules, policies, and procedures (if any) applicable to YOUR authorized repair facilities to further YOUR compliance with the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as of the year 2021.INTERROGATORY NO. 11:Please IDENTIFY each of YOUR agents or employees involved with implementing YOUR rules, policies, and procedures for complying with the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as of the year 2021.Here, Plaintiff seeks information regarding Defendant’s Song-Beverly Act policies because it is relevant to Plaintiff’s request for civil penalties. The Court finds that these SROGs are relevant to Plaintiff’s action though are overbroad in that they are not limited to the Subject Vehicle. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 9-11 is GRANTED with the limitation that interrogatories are limited to the Subject Vehicle.Requests Nos. 12-16SROGs, set one, nos. 12 through 16 are as follows:INTERROGATORY NO. 12:Please IDENTIFY each of YOUR authorized repair facilities, agents, or employees who participated in, was involved in, or was present for, any inspection, service, diagnosis, analysis, evaluation, or repair of the SUBJECT VEHICLEINTERROGATORY NO. 13:For each authorized repair facility, agent, or employee identified in response to Special Interrogatory No. 13, supra, please describe how the PERSON identified participated in, was involved in, or was present for, any inspection, service, diagnosis, analysis, evaluation, or repair of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.INTERROGATORY NO. 14:Please IDENTIFY the date, method, and nature of each communication between YOU and Plaintiff or anyone on Plaintiff’s behalf regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including the identity of the PERSON communicating on YOUR behalf.INTERROGATORY NO. 15:Please IDENTIFY the date, method, and nature of each communication between YOU and any PERSON regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including the identity of the PERSON communicating on YOUR behalf and of the PERSON with whom YOU communicated.INTERROGATORY NO. 16:Did YOU evaluate the SUBJECT VEHICLE’s eligibility for repurchase or replacement prior to the filing of this lawsuit? If so, who participated in the evaluation, and what was YOUR evaluation?Here, in response and supplemental response to SROGs, set one, nos. 12-16, Defendant exercises the option to produce documents. However, unlike SROGs, set one, nos. 1-6, these SROGs are not asking to identify or reference documents. Therefore, references to documents are not responsive. (See Deyo v. Kilbourne, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at 784.) The Court finds Defendant’s exercise of the option to produce documents unwarranted within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.300 subd. (a)(2). Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs, set one, nos. 12-16 is GRANTED and ORDERS Defendant to serve verified, code-compliant responses within 20 days of this Order.SanctionsDefendant requests sanctions on the grounds that Plaintiff misused the discovery process. Given that the Court found in favor and against both parties on different SROGs, the Court declines to award sanctions.