 Case Number:  23NWCV00237    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  SEC GIRON v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.CASE NO.: 23NWCV00237HEARING: 12/18/24#14Plaintiffs Melissa Giron and Rudy Giron’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Moving Party to give notice.This is a continuation. On December 6, 2024, the Court granted a continuance to give the Court time to read and consider an untimely opposition, filed on December 5, 2024.This “lemon law” action was filed by Plaintiffs Melissa Giron and Rudy Giron (“Plaintiffs”) on January 24, 2023. On April 7, 2023, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiffs allege that American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant” or “Honda”) did not disclose and actively concealed defects involving Honda’s Transmission Defect affecting Plaintiffs’ 2017 Honda Pilot vehicle. (See e.g., FAC ¶¶20, 43.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Honda manufactured the Subject Vehicle. (FAC ¶13.)Plaintiff’s FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act (Breach of Express Warranty); and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.On October 31, 2023, Defendant Honda filed its Answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC, Defendant’s Answer asserts a general denial and 28 affirmative defenses to the FAC. Honda alleges “that it possesses a qualified third-party dispute resolution process, thereby barring Plaintiffs from any civil penalty in this lawsuit.” (Answer to FAC ¶8.)Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c subd. (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ “Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendant objects to evidence in Plaintiffs’ separate statement of undisputed facts.Under California Rules of Court, rule 1.1354(b), “[a]ll written objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion.” Objections may be referenced in the separate statement but must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 1.1354(b); see also Hodjat v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.4th 1, 8-9, a court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to consider objections not filed separately.)Accordingly, the Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary objections.DiscussionPlaintiff now moves for summary adjudication of the following issues:(1) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Fifth Affirmative Defense (Third Party Resolution Process), because Defendant does not have a qualified third-party dispute resolution process;(2) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth Affirmative Defense (No Civil Penalty), because Defendant does not have a qualified third-party resolution process; and(3) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth Affirmative Defense because willful and civil penalties are not barred by the existence of a qualified third-party dispute resolution process. Plaintiff argues that summary adjudication of these issues is proper because “[t]here is no evidence that Honda maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process[.]” (Motion 2:24.)“If the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was willful, the judgment may include, in addition to the amounts recovered under subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not exceed two times the amount of actual damages.” (Cal. Civ. Code §1794(c).) Under Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e), “if the buyer establishes a violation of paragraph (2) or subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2, the buyer shall recover damages and reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, and may recover a civil penalty of up to two times the amount of damages. [¶] If the manufacturer maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process which substantially complies with Section 1793.22, the manufacturer shall not be liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this subdivision.” (Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e)(2).)In support of their Motion, Plaintiffs proffer the following evidence:(1) Honda conceded in discovery that it does not have a certified third-party dispute resolution process. (UMF No. 3, Swanson Decl., ¶¶6-7.);(2) The Department of Consumer Affairs (“DCA”) maintains a publicly available list of automakers for which it has certified their “qualified third-party dispute resolution process,” and Honda is not among them. (UMF No. 4.)(3) The Program Chief for the DCA Arbitration Certification Program has attested in a signed affidavit that Honda has not had a certified dispute resolution program since 2013, that Honda’s National Center for Dispute Settlement Program is not certified by the DCA, that a qualified program must be certified by the DCA, and that Honda’s non-certified program has not been subject to any regulatory review or oversight by the DCA. (UMF Nos. 5-10.)Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that there is no existence of disputed issues of material fact with regard to Plaintiffs’ ability to obtain civil penalties because Defendant fails to establish that it maintains a qualified third-party resolution process. Moreover, as argued in the Moving Papers, even if Defendant did have a third-party dispute resolution process, that would not be a shield to civil penalties under Cal. Civ. Code §1794(c) (which depends on a finding of willfulness). The burden now shifts to Defendant.Defendant argues there are issues of material fact regarding its substantial compliance, good faith efforts to provide a third-party dispute resolution process, and whether its conduct meets the statutory standard for “willfulness.”The Court notes that Defendant has not proffered any evidence in opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication.Instead, Defendant relies on case law explaining the legislative intent behind “substantial compliance” under Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e). One such case is Suman v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1318 which notes the Act is intended to protect consumers and deter deliberate violations. At no point does the court in Suman suggest that a lack of certification constitutes “substantial compliance” within the meaning of Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e). Defendant contends that Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1104 stands for the proposition that a manufacturer’s efforts to offer consumer remedies, even if not certified, constitutes substantial compliance and good faith under the Act. (Opposition 5:16.) The court in Oregel states “a violation is not willful if the defendant's failure to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and reasonable belief that the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present.” (Ibid.) At no point does the Court in Oregel discuss lack of certification. Additionally, to the extent Defendant argues its NCDS program demonstrates its “good faith” and “substantial compliance,” Defendant does not offer any evidence in support of its burden of production.Accordingly, Plaintiffs Melissa Giron and Rudy Giron’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Honda’s Fifth and Eighth Affirmative Defenses is GRANTED.