 Case Number:  23SMCV04183	    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Hill
v. Sundquist, et al., Case No. 23SMCV04183 
Hearing
date May 1, 2024
Defendant
Sundquist’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint/Motion to Strike 
Plaintiff Hill
alleges defendant neighbor failed to contribute to replacing a shared fence
that had fallen into disrepair and remove a vine from the fence. Hill also
alleges a water heating apparatus owned by Sundquist malfunctioned, causing
damage. Sundquist demurs and moves to strike punitive damages.
The court
sustained a demurrer on 12/15/23. The FAC includes new allegations that an
arborist opined the vine is injurious to health, and a structural engineering
firm opined the hot water eruption caused structural damage to Hill’s home. FAC
¶¶ 36-37.
Per Cal.
Civ. Code §841(b)(2), “[a]djoining landowners shall share equally in the responsibility
for maintaining the boundaries and monuments between them[,]” and “[w]here a landowner
intends to incur costs for a fence described in paragraph (1), the landowner
shall give 30 days’ prior written notice to each affected adjoining landowner.”
Defendant
argues the FAC fails to allege notice as required by the Code. Hill contends the
notice was produced in discovery. Opposition, Ex. B. The letter, dated May 18,
2023, informs defendant of the presumption of equal responsibility among
neighbors for the reasonable costs of replacement of the fence and includes a
description of the nature of the problem facing the shared fence, the proposed
solution for addressing the problem, the estimated construction or maintenance
costs involved to address the problem, the proposed cost sharing approach, and
the proposed timeline for getting the problem addressed. The letter shows alleged
compliance with Civ. Code § 841(b)(2) for purposes of demurrer, see FAC, para.
8. OVERRULED.
The elements of a prima facie case for IIED are: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
plaintiff’s emotional distress; and (3) causation. Plaintiff must allege
conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of usually tolerated in a civilized
community. Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009; see also Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051. The question of whether a
defendant’s conduct is outrageous is a question of law that can be determined
on demurrer. Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 533-534.
The court previously held no reasonable fact finder
could find the following conduct qualifies as “extreme and outrageous” behavior
justifying a cause of action for IIED: (1) allowing a vine to grow out of
control, even if it impacts ingress and egress, and (2) failing to contribute
to the cost of replacing a fence. 
The only new allegations are that an arborist opined the
vine is injurious to health and an obstruction to the free use of property, and
a structural engineer opined the hot water eruption caused structural damage. As
alleged, Sundquist’s conduct could be seen as annoying or unneighborly, but does
not rise to “extreme” or “outrageous” as justifying a cause of action for IIED.
Moreover, Hill did not allege severe or extreme emotional distress. SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
The negligent causing
of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. Spates
v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213. The traditional
elements of duty, breach of duty, causation and damages apply. Id. Whether
a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law. Generally, there is no
legal duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to another. GU v.
BMW of North America, LLC (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 195, 204. 
Once again, Hill has not alleged facts establishing
Sundquist owed a duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress. Hill
cites no law imposing such duty and has not alleged Sundquist assumed such duty
or that any special relationship creates the duty. SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
Motion to Strike:
Sundquist moves to strike the phrase “intentional and malicious” in Paragraph
41, on Page 8, Line 3. The court previously granted Sundquist’s motion to
strike punitive damages. Sundquist contends Hill is attempting to circumvent
this ruling by using the phrase “intentional and malicious,” which is
indicative of punitive damages. 
Punitive damages are recoverable against a defendant
who acts with fraud, malice, or oppression. Cal. Civ. Code §3294. Malice is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Civ. Code §
3294(c)(1). 
None of the remaining causes of action in the FAC support
an allegation that Sundquist intended to commit a tort or harm Hill’s
interests. The FAC alleges conduct that may be tortious but does not rise to
the level of malice. GRANTED.