  Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ CHARLES BERNAL, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHRISTOPHER MAGGIORE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV02134 Hearing Date: September 20, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND (2) DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Charles Bernal (“Bernal”) and Artist Worldwide Agency, LLC filed this action against defendants Christopher Maggiore, Artists Worldwide, Jamison Properties, Inc., Force Protection Agency, Inc. (“FPA”), Doe 1, and Does 2-25 premised upon various allegations of interference with AWA’s business, breach of contract, assault, and battery. On July 3, 2024, FPA filed a motion for protective order regarding its employees’ depositions, including those of Russell Stuart and Guy Mack (“Mr. Mack”). FPA contends that its current counsel, Ian Stewart of Wilson Elser, recently substituted into the case on its behalf after it was determined that FPA’s prior counsel Cole Sheridan (“Mr. Sheridan”) had actual conflict between FPA and his other clients in this action. FPA argues that Mr. Sheridan failed to produce to current counsel his entire client file, such as reports, physical evidence, and other materials, such that its current counsel cannot perform any meaningful discovery. Plaintiff Bernal opposes the motion. On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff Bernal filed a motion for an order compelling FPA’s employee Guy Mack (“Mr. Mack”) to appear for his deposition. FPA opposes the motion. On September 11, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on FPA’s motion for protective order to be heard at the same time as Plaintiff Bernal’s motion to compel Mr. Mack’s deposition.  II.  LEGAL STANDARD Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)¿ A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)¿In addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) As for protective orders, the court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may direct that the deposition not be taken at all.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420 (b)(1).)  III.  DISCUSSION The Court will first address FPA’s motion for a protective order. In sum, FPA contends that its current counsel is unable to adequately defend it without receipt of prior counsel’s entire client file. At the same time, FPA also provides that Mr. Sheridan had “not sought to perform any meaningful discovery with respect to the issues of liability and damages critical to the defense of FPA in this matter.” (Mot. Protective Order, 4:9-10.) If Mr. Sheridan did not pursue critical discovery in this matter, the Court fails to understand why FPA receiving Mr. Sheridan’s allegedly incomplete client file would so severely impede its current counsel’s ability to investigate matters on their own, and why current counsel must be so reliant on former counsel’s allegedly inadequate work.  The Court finds that FPA has not sufficiently explained the importance of Mr. Sheridan’s client file to merit good cause for a protective order prohibiting the depositions of all its employees, including the deposition of Mr. Mack. Nothing prevents FPA’s current counsel from investigating and obtaining necessary information on their own initiative, such as requesting files directly from their own client, interviewing relevant FPA personnel, propounding written discovery on all parties, and subpoenaing records. Furthermore, based upon Plaintiff Bernal’s opposition, it appears that FPA has received all discovery due. FPA’s reliance on the supposed contents that may or may not be contained in Mr. Sheridan’s client file is speculative at best. FPA’s motion for a protective order is therefore denied. The Court now turns to Plaintiff Bernal’s related motion to compel Mr. Mack’s deposition. The basis for Mr. Mack’s deposition is that he was the FPA security guard who was involved in the alleged altercation with Plaintiff Bernal. FPA’s counsel initially agreed to produce Mr. Mack for his noticed deposition on July 1, 2024, but then later retracted this agreement on the grounds that FPA’s former counsel refused to produce his complete client file. FPA’s opposition relies upon its protective order, which the Court already denied for the above reasons. Plaintiff Bernal’s motion to compel Mr. Mack’s deposition is therefore granted.  Lastly, in terms of sanctions, CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. The Court finds no substantial justification for FPA’s refusal to produce Mr. Mack and finds Plaintiff Bernal’s request for sanctions to be warranted. However, a court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) Although sanctions will be awarded, it will not be to the full $5,824.50 requested. Plaintiff Bernal is awarded 4 hours collectively to prepare the motion, review the opposition, prepare the reply, and attend the hearing on the motion at the reduced rate of $500.00 per hour, for a total of $2,000.00 in attorney’s fees. Further, Plaintiff Bernal is awarded $1,052.00 for the court reporter fees for the deposition non-appearance, and $60.00 for the motion filing fee as costs.  IV. CONCLUSION FPA’s motion for protective order is DENIED.  Plaintiff Bernal’s motion to compel the deposition of FPA’s employee Mr. Mack is GRANTED. (CCP § 2025.450(a).). Mr. Mack is ordered to appear for deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Plaintiff Bernal. Counsel for the parties are ordered to meet and confer to determine the date and time for the deposition. If FPA’s counsel does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Plaintiff Bernal may unilaterally set a date and time for the deposition with at least ten days’ notice to FPA (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service). Sanctions are imposed against FPA and its attorney of record, jointly and severally. They are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Bernal, by and through his attorney of record, in the total amount of $3,112.00, within twenty (20) days.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 19, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 