


            [1]
Caltrans failed to lodge a courtesy copy of its opposition, in violation of the
Presiding Judge’s First Amended General Order Re: Mandatory Electronic
Filing.  It is admonished to provide
courtesy copies for all future filings.
            Megeen’s
15-page reply exceeds the 10-page limit of CRC 3.1113(d).  The court has exercised its discretion to
read and consider only the first ten pages.


            [2]
Caltrans requests judicial notice of (1) the FAP (RJN Ex. A); (2) Megeen’s
September 5, 2023 declaration in this action (RJN Ex. B); and (3) the fact that
the distance between the Property and Bank Property is about 0.5 miles.
            The
court need not judicially notice RJN Exs. A and B because it is always free to
review previous filings in the current action. 
As to the distance between addresses, Caltrans cites Miller v.
Ferguson, (1921) 55 Cal.App. 502, 505, to assert that the distance between
locations is judicially noticeable.  RJN
at 2.  While this is true, Caltrans fails
to provide any evidence to show the distance is 0.5 miles.  Judicial notice of the requested fact is
denied.


[3]
The cited page is not in Exhibit 3.


            [4]
Megeen asserts that the letter’s list of properties included the Property, but
it does not mention Glendon Way.  Megeen
Decl., ¶20, Ex. 15.


            [5]
Megeen’s Reply Brief refers to “Exhibit 21” as a deposition of former Senior
Right of Way agent Carol Devorkan.  Reply
at 14.  This reference is to Exhibit 21
of Megeen’s declaration filed in support of her trial brief, not her motion for
judgment and it has not been considered for this motion.


[6] The
pertinent limitations period may be three years for a claim based on a
liability created by statute.  CCP
338(a).  See Travis v. County
of Santa Cruz, (2004) 33 Cal.4th 757, 771-73 (claim against the county
alleging that it had breached a mandatory duty to repeal an ordinance which was
allegedly preempted by a statute was subject to a three-year limitation
period).  The parties have not briefed
this issue.
 


[7]
The court need not address the final element, which is that the injustice which
would result from a failure to estop the agency is sufficient to justify any
adverse effect upon public interest or policy which would result.  City of Long Beach v. Mansell, supra,
3 Cal.3d at 496-97.


[8]
The breach issues are relevant evidence for actual and constructive notice even
though Megeen does not allege breach of contract claim.

