  Case Number:  22STCP04207    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  85 
Megeen McLaughlin and
Ryan McLaughlin v. California Department of Transportation, 22STCP04207


Tentative decision on motion
for judgment: denied  




 
            Petitioner
Megeen McLaughlin (“Megeen”) moves for judgment pursuant to CCP section
1094.  The court has read and considered
the moving papers, opposition, and reply,[1]
and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1. The FAP
            Petitioners
Megeen and Ryan McLaughlin (“Ryan”) (collectively, “McLaughlins”) filed the Petition
against Respondent California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”) on November
29, 2022.  The operative pleading is the First
Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on February 7, 2023, alleging two causes of
action: writ of mandate and injunction.  The
verified FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
 
            a. Vacating
the Property
            The
McLaughlins were tenants in good standing at 1110 Glendon Way (“Property”) from
September 1991 to December 1999.  FAP,
¶12.  Megeen signed a lease for the
Property on May 24, 1993.  FAP, ¶13, Ex.
2.  Her son Ryan was a minor at the
beginning of this tenancy.  FAP, ¶13.
            By 1998,
the Property was in negligent disrepair. 
FAP, ¶14.  In Spring 1999, the
“Historic Properties Tenants Association” notified Megeen by mail that Caltrans
had developed a project to rehabilitate 80 historic homes along the 710
corridor route in Pasadena and South Pasadena. 
FAP, ¶15, Ex. 3.  At the same
time, Caltrans Property Manager Marilyn J. Lavender (“Lavender”) informed
Megeen that the McLaughlins would be displaced from the Property so that Caltrans
could renovate it to comply with historical property standards.  FAP, ¶16. 

            To preserve
her right to purchase the Property under the Roberti Law, Megeen agreed to move
out only if Caltrans guaranteed to allow the McLaughlins to return after the
renovations.  FAP, ¶17.  Caltrans agreed, and Lavender promised to
provide a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) to that effect soon after the
McLaughlins vacated.  FAP, ¶¶ 18, 24.  Based on Caltrans’s representations, Megeen believed
that the renovations would begin as soon as the McLaughlins vacated and would
take only a year.  FAP, ¶19.  She also believed that the proposed
renovations were the only way to restore the Property to an adequate living
condition.  FAP, ¶21.  Thus, she agreed to temporarily vacate the
Property.  FAP, ¶21.
            On December
2, 1999, shortly before the McLaughlins vacated the Property, Lavender
presented Megeen a document entitled “Residential Claim for Moving Expense by
Schedule or Actual Reasonable Cost” (“Moving Expense Sheet”).  FAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  The Moving Expense Sheet listed Megeen and
Ryan as claimants.  FAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  Lavender handwrote “RAP” on top to
demonstrate that the Moving Expense Sheet was for the Relocation Assistance
Program.  FAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  Megeen incorrectly signed the document where
a Caltrans representative should sign, below an acknowledgment that the
document and supporting evidence complies with applicable provisions of Title
49 Code of Federal Regulations (“C.F.R.”), Part 24.  FAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.
            The
McLaughlins vacated the Property in the second week of December 1999.  FAP, ¶22. 
By that point, Ryan was 18 years old. 
FAP, ¶13.  
            In January
2001, Lavender asked Megeen via phone if she had received the promised MOU.  FAP, ¶25. 
Megeen replied that she was still waiting for it.  FAP, ¶25.
            In September
2022, the McLaughlins made public records requests to Caltrans for documents
about their displacement from the Property. 
FAP, ¶31.  Caltrans only produced
the Moving Expense Sheet.  FAP, ¶32, Ex.
4.
            The
McLaughlins made a public records request for documents concerning Caltrans’
rehabilitation efforts for the Property under the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Treatment of Historic Properties, 36 C.F.R., Part 68 (“Historic
Property Standards”).  FAP, ¶33.  The only document provided was a Route 710
Historic Houses Condition Assessment Report from October 15, 2002.  FAP, ¶33, Ex. 5.  The 2002 report shows the Property in the
same state of disrepair as when the McLaughlins vacated it.  FAP, ¶33, Ex. 5.  A repair estimate from May 23, 2012 shows the
same improvements as the renovation report and demonstrates that Caltrans did
not make any improvements in the ten years between the two documents.  FAP, ¶34, Exs. 5-6.  The rehabilitation project either no longer
existed or no longer applied to the Property. 
FAP, ¶34.  
 
            b. Efforts
to Return
            Between
2000 and 2022, the McLaughlins’ replacement dwelling at 854 Bank Street. (“Bank
Property”) had a new property manager once every 1-2 years.  FAP, ¶35.  Each manager inspected the Bank Property at
least annually.  FAP, ¶36.  Each time there was a new manager, Megeen told
that manager about the McLaughlins’ displacement and their intention to move
back into the Property after its rehabilitation was complete.  FAP, ¶37. 

             A repair report dated December 4, 2014 shows
that Property manager Angus Chan (“Chan”) called for move-in repairs to the Property.  FAP, ¶39, Ex. 7.
            In June
2015, Chan became manager of the Bank Property. 
FAP, ¶38.  Megeen told Chan about
her intent to return to the Property.  FAP,
¶38.  Chan did not inform her that he was
also manager of the Property, that the Property had been renovated for move-in
purposes, and that it had not been renovated to comply with Historic Property
Standards.  FAP, ¶38.  Had they known these facts, the McLaughlins
could have asserted their right to move back in at that time.  FAP, ¶38. 

            In November
2021, the City of South Pasadena (“City”) notified the McLaughlins that it
planned to purchase vacant Caltrans-owned properties within City limits.  FAP, ¶40. 
Megeen contacted then-Property manager Michael Means (“Means”) to assert
the McLaughlins’ right to move back into the Property.  FAP, ¶41. 
Later that month, Caltrans CFO Stephen Keck (“Keck”) helped the
McLaughlins contact Caltrans program manager Carolyn Dabney (“Dabney”).  FAP, ¶43. 
Dabney said that she would speak to Edward Francis (“Francis”), Caltrans
Deputy Director of District 7, who had the final say on the issue.  FAP, ¶44. 

            From
November 2021 to August 2022, the McLaughlins attempted to contact Francis by
telephone and email as they had yet to hear from Dabney.  FAP, ¶45. 
In August 2022, Ryan explained the situation to Francis over the
phone.  FAP, ¶47.  Although Francis found Ryan’s assertions
believable, he was not familiar with Caltrans’s efforts to rehabilitate
historic properties in that area.  FAP,
¶47.  Francis also informed Ryan that the
Property was fully renovated and vacant, although it had been rented to a
tenant for a short time.  FAP, ¶47.  This was the first that the McLaughlins
learned that the Property was in “move in” condition.  FAP, ¶48. 

            On
September 14, 2022, Francis informed Ryan that he could not establish or
confirm Megeen’s right to the Property. 
FAP, ¶49.  This was the first
formal denial of the McLaughlins’ right to move back into the Property.  FAP, ¶49.
            On
September 20, 2022, the McLaughlins filed a claim against Caltrans with the
Department of General Services Office of Risk and Insurance Management.  FAP, ¶50. 
In this claim, they sought to enforce Caltrans’s promise to allow them
to move back into the Property after its restoration.  FAP, ¶50. 
Caltrans did not respond to this within 45 days or thereafter.  FAP, ¶51. 

 
            c. The
Caltrans Guide
            In 1990, Caltrans
issued a guide entitled “Your Rights and Benefits as a Displacee Under the
Uniform Relocation Assistance Program (Residential)” (“Caltrans Guide”).  FAP, ¶10, Ex. 1.  In the Caltrans Guide, Caltrans admits that
it must abide by 49 C.F.R. Part 24, which implements the Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (“Uniform Act”).  FAP, ¶10, Ex. 1, p. 2.  Its objective is to ensure that persons
displaced as a direct result of federal or federally assisted projects are
treated fairly, consistently, and equitably so that such persons will not
suffer disproportionate injuries from projects designed for the benefit of the
public as a whole.  FAP, ¶10, Ex. 1, p.
2.  
            The
Caltrans Guide explains that eligible displaced individuals have a right to
appeal any Caltrans decision about relocation benefits and eligibility.  FAP Ex. 1. 
The Uniform Act guarantees the right to file an appeal with the head of
the responsible agency if that person believes it has failed to determine the
person’s eligibility or the amount of a payment authorized by the Act.  Id. 
If the displaced individual expresses dissatisfaction with the
determination either verbally or in writing, Caltrans will help file an appeal
and explain the procedures to follow.  Id.  
            The displaced
individual will have a prompt and full opportunity to be heard,
with the right to representation by legal counsel or another representative at
the individual’s own expense.  Id.    Caltrans will consider all available
information and provide a written determination with an explanation of the
basis for the decision.  Id.  Caltrans will advise any
dissatisfied individuals that they may seek judicial review.  Id.  
            The Los
Angeles County Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, Division of Housing
Protections (“Housing”), defines a temporarily displaced tenant as one who must
temporarily leave a unit for necessary repairs, rehabilitation via upgrades and
repairs that increase product value, health and safety violations, or other
work that cannot be completed while the tenant remains in the unit.  FAP, ¶¶ 52-53, Ex. 8.  When the McLaughlins vacated the Property,
they met this definition because the cracked asbestos tiles and improper
electrical grounding made repairs necessary to resolve health and safety
violations.  FAP, ¶54.  Asbestos disposal could not occur with
tenants in the house.  FAP, ¶54.  The renovations under the Historic Property
Standards as originally intended would have drastically increased the Property’s
value.  FAP, ¶54, Ex. 3.
 
            d. The
Causes of Action
            In the
first cause of action for mandamus, the McLaughlins allege that Caltrans has a
ministerial duty to follow the law and deviated from the Uniform Act because it
did not intend to permanently displace the McLaughlins from the Property.  FAP, ¶59. 
Because Caltrans intended only to temporarily displace the McLaughlins,
it did not adhere to the requirements of 49 C.F.R. section 24.402(b)(1)
concerning relocation benefits.  FAP, ¶¶
26-29.  Caltrans also did not adhere to
49 C.F.R. section 24.203(a) (1-3), which required Caltrans to give 90-day
written notice of the McLaughlins’ eligibility for relocation assistance
payments and advisory assistance of their rights as displaces and to relocation
payments and replacement dwellings.  FAP,
¶27.  
            Caltrans
further did not adhere to 49 C.F.R. section 24.204, which required Caltrans to
provide the McLaughlins with a safe and sanitary replacement dwelling
comparable to the Property.  FAP,
¶28.  While the Property is a 12 room,
three-bathroom, four-bedroom, two-story house, the Bank Property has five
rooms, two bedrooms, and one bathroom with no ventilation.  FAP, ¶28.  
Megeen slipped, fell, and injured her wrist on the Bank Property’s
gravel and dirt driveway.  FAP, ¶28.
            Caltrans
also did not adhere to 49 C.F.R. section 24.9, which required Caltrans to keep
adequate records of its acquisition and displacement activities in sufficient
detail to demonstrate compliance with the Uniform Act.  FAP, ¶29. 
Caltrans was required to retain such records until three years after it
paid relocation benefits to any displacee. 
FAP, ¶29.  Because Caltrans never
paid these benefits, it was required to retain these records and did not do
so.  FAP, ¶29.  
            Caltrans
only complied with 49 C.F.R. section 24.403(a)(1)(1970), which required it to
pay the McLaughlins’ reasonable moving expenses.  FAP, ¶30. 

            When it
denied the McLaughlins the ability to return to the Property, Caltrans’ violated
49 C.F.R. sections 24.203(a)(1)-(3), 24.402(b), 24.403(a)(1), and 24.9.  FAP, ¶59. 
That decision was arbitrary, capricious, and an abuse of discretion that
blatantly ignored the fact that the McLaughlins were displaced due to the
renovations under the Historic Property Standards, which Caltrans
discontinued.  FAP, ¶63.  
            In the
second cause of action for mandamus based on equitable estoppel, the
McLaughlins allege that Caltrans knew about the efforts to rehabilitate properties to
meet Historic Property Standards because it supervised those projects.  FAP, ¶67. 
The McLaughlins believed that Caltrans intended to allow them to return
to the Property because it had promised Megeen an MOU to that effect.  FAP, ¶68. 
Caltrans also informed the McLaughlins that the displacement was solely
to renovate the Property to comply with historic standards and never expressed an
intent to demolish the Property or take it off the rental market.  FAP, ¶68. 

            Until the notice
from Francis in September 2022, the McLaughlins were unaware that Caltrans had
completed any renovations that it would perform almost 20 years earlier and had
temporarily rented the Property to someone else.  FAP, ¶69. 
Until their public records request in October 2022, they were unaware
that Caltrans had abandoned plans to rehabilitate the Property to comply with Historic
Property Standards.  FAP, ¶69.  They were also unaware of their rights as
displaces under the Uniform Act because Caltrans did not provide them with the
advisory assistance that statute requires. 
FAP, ¶69.  
            The
McLaughlins relied on Caltrans’s promises to their detriment because their
replacement dwelling was smaller and less valuable.  FAP, ¶70. 
If Caltrans chose to sell both properties under the Roberti Law, they would
be the owners of the Bank Property, a less valuable home than the Property.  FAP, ¶70.
            The
government may be bound by an equitable estoppel in the same manner as a
private party when the elements requisite to such estoppel against a private
party are present, and the injustice which would result from a failure to
uphold an estoppel is of sufficient dimension to justify any effect upon public
interest or policy which would result from the raising of an estoppel.  FAP, ¶71. 
The failure to bind Caltrans through equitable estoppel would imply that
state agencies that receive federal funding need not adhere to federal regulations,
just as Caltrans here failed to comply with the Uniform Act.  FAP, ¶73. 
It would also undermine taxpayer trust in Caltrans because the lack of
accountability would encourage it to continue using bad faith tactics.  FAP, ¶73.
 
            e. Prayer
for Relief
            The
McLaughlins seek (1) a writ of mandate or injunction commanding Caltrans to
allow them to return to the Property, (2) a preliminary injunction enjoining
Caltrans from selling the Property during the pendency of this action, (3) an
order that Caltrans honor the promise to allow the McLaughlins to return to the
Property, and (4) attorney’s fees and costs. 
FAP Prayer, ¶¶ 1-4.
 
            2. Course
of Proceedings
            On November
30, 2022, the McLaughlins filed a lis pendens for the Property.  They served Caltrans with the Summons,
Petition, and lis pendens.
            On February
7, 2023, the McLaughlins filed the FAP.
            On March 1,
2023, the McLaughlins filed a second lis pendens for the Property.
            Also on
March 1, 2023, the court denied the McLaughlins’ ex parte application
for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and order to show cause (“OSC”) re: preliminary
injunction (“OSC”), ruling that the McLaughlins had provided no evidence that they
qualify under the Roberti Law, they had delayed because they knew about the
City’s attempts to buy the Property since September 2021, and there was no
showing that a sale was eminent (and the McLaughlins would have to add the
buyer as a party if there was).
            On May 23,
2023, the court sustained Caltrans’ demurrer to the first cause of action as to
both petitioners, and the second cause of action as to Ryan.
            On July 6,
2023, Ryan was dismissed as a Petitioner in the action without prejudice.
            On August
2, 2023, Caltrans filed an Answer.
 
            B. Applicable Law
            A motion
for judgment under CCP section 1094 is a mechanism to obtain a streamlined
review on a particular undisputed issue based on undisputed facts or the
administrative record.  Dunn v. County
of Santa Barbara, (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1293.  See
also 2 CEB California Administrative Mandamus §13.23 (3d ed. 2007).  
            When a
question of fact is raised by the respondent’s answer, the petitioner has the
right to countervail it with proof.  CCP
§1091; Lassen v. City of Alameda, (1957) 150 Cal.App.2d 44, 47.  If the facts are undisputed or only a
question of law is raised, the court may hear the matter upon the papers filed
and argument.  Id. at 47.  The petitioner also may waive the right to
present evidence and the matter may be heard under CCP section 1094.  Ibid. 
If a question of fact is raised by the answer, a CCP section 1094 motion
is not appropriate, and the matter must be heard at trial.  See
id. at 48.
            In denying
a CCP section 1094 motion, the court may decide that the facts are disputed and
hence the motion is procedurally defective, or it may decide that the
undisputed facts/record show the moving party cannot prevail on that issue.  
 
            C. The
California Relocation Assistance Act
            Whenever a
program or project to be undertaken by a public entity will result in the
displacement of any person, the displaced person is entitled to payment for
actual moving and related expenses as the public entity determines to be
reasonable and necessary, including expenses for actual and reasonable expenses
in moving the person, the person’s family, business, farm operation, or related
property.  Government Code (“Govt. Code”)
§7262(a)(1).
            A person
displaced by rehabilitation work which is wholly or partially financed or
assisted with public funds provided by or through the public entity shall, as a
condition of the financing or assistance, be given the option of relocating,
after rehabilitation, in the dwelling from which the person was displaced.  Govt. Code §7265.3(d).
            If a
relocation appeals board has been established, that city may by ordinance
designate it to hear appeals from all public entities, except those state
agencies which have an appeal process, on the eligibility for, or the amount
of, relocation payment benefits authorized by Govt. Code sections 7260 et
seq.  Govt. Code §7266(a).  Any person aggrieved by a determination as to
eligibility for, or the amount of, such payment may have the application
reviewed by the public entity or by the relocation appeals board if the board
is authorized to review it per such an ordinance.  Govt. Code §7266(b).
            
            D.
Statement of Facts[2]
            1. Megeen’s Evidence
            a. Property
History
            Megan was
a tenant at the Property from September 1991 to December 1999.  Megeen Decl., ¶2.  Megeen signed an amended lease for the
Property in 1996.  Megeen Decl., ¶2, Ex.
1.  Caltrans maintains the Property, and
Lavender was the Property’s manager during Megeen’s tenancy.  Megeen Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.
            On August 5, 1999, Caltrans sent
contractors to perform renovation assessments on the Property.  Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.   The resulting estimate listed the final cost
as $374,229 and says the house “will be vacated for rehab work.”  Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.   Megeen understood that the Property would
need rehabilitative electrical, plumbing, flooring, and gas work.  Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.  Removal of asbestos tiling around the
Property’s exterior would also be necessary to renovate the Property to
historical standards.  Megeen Decl.,
¶5.  
            On
December 2, 1999, per Govt. Code section 7262(a)(1) of the Relocation
Assistance Act, Caltrans provided Megeen with reasonable moving expenses.  Megeen Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.   As Caltrans’ parcel diary for the Property
shows, Megeen was displaced from the Property and relocated to the Bank
Property during the second week of that month “due to historical property
renovations.”  Megeen Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.
            When
Caltrans relocated the McLaughlins, Lavender promised Megeen that she could
move back when renovations were complete and that she would receive a Caltrans
MOU to that effect.  Megeen Decl.,
¶7.  When Lavender asked Megann in the
first week of January 2001 whether she had received the MOU, Megeen stated that
she had not and was still waiting for one. 
Megeen Decl., ¶8.  
            On January 29, 2002, Caltrans
Employee Doug Hoover sent a memorandum to Caltrans Senior Right of Way Agent
Mary Scott stating that the Property was vacant and needed to be fixed before “the
tenants” could move in.  Megeen Decl.,
¶10, Ex. 7.  
            On October 15, 2002, the Route 710
Historical Houses Condition Assessment Report included the removal of transite,
or asbestos, siding from exterior walls and replacing them with wood siding
that matched the original as required throughout the house.  Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.[3]   The “Character Defining Feature” (“CDF”)
column of the report lists this as “M” for Most Significant.  Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.   
            Caltrans records from December 2000
to April 2014 list the Property as “vacant.” 
Megeen Decl., ¶9, Ex. 6. 
Maintenance records from as late as June 10, 2010 listed Lavender as the
contact for the Property.  Megeen Decl.,
¶11, Ex. 8.  Caltrans’ response to a 2023
Public Records Act request confirmed Lavender retired some time in 2010.  Megeen Decl., ¶12, Ex. 9.
            On April 14, 2015, a Caltrans
maintenance record reflects installation of a five-ton air conditioning unit at
the bay east exterior of the Property.  Megeen
Decl., ¶25, Ex. 19.  The Property did not
have such a unit when McLaughlin lived there. 
Megeen Decl., ¶25.
            On May 30, 2021, contractors from
the Department of General Services performed renovation work on the Property,
with costs totaling $204,796.  Megeen
Decl., ¶13, Ex. 10.  Several items of
work performed were similar or identical to items on the 1999 renovation estimates.  Megeen Decl., Exs. 2, 10.  
            The maintenance record for the
Property dated December 4, 2014, states: “Move in repairs per repair sheet.”  Megeen Decl., ¶14, Ex. 11.  Despite the Property having been renovated to
move-in standards in 2014, Caltrans never told Megeen that she could move back
in per Govt. Code section 7265.3(d).  Megeen
Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.  Based on maintenance
records, Caltrans rented the Property to someone else from 2015 and 2017.  Megeen Decl., ¶16, Exs. 12-13.
            After Megeen’s relocation to the
Bank Property, she would drive by the Property but could not gauge the progress
of internal renovations because the majority were to be performed on the
interior.  Megeen Decl., ¶18.  It was apparent that the asbestos tiling had
not been removed from the exterior and she therefore believed the renovations
project had not come to fruition as to the Property.  Megeen Decl., ¶18.  To date, the asbestos tiling remains in
place.  Megeen Decl., ¶18.  
            In 2020, the Property was boarded
up.  Megeen Decl., ¶19.  Property maintenance records from April 30,
2020 state “board up of vacant properties.” 
Megeen Decl., ¶19, Ex. 14.
            In September 2021, Megeen learned that
the City planned to purchase vacant Caltrans-owned properties within City
limits.  Megeen Decl., ¶20.  Caltrans’ June 30, 2022 solicitation letter
to the City included a list of unoccupied homes available for purchase, plus
one vacant lot.  Megeen Decl., ¶20, Ex.
15.[4]  An October 5, 2022 City Council Agenda Report
stated that the City expressed interest in purchasing all the unoccupied
properties.  Megeen Decl., ¶20, Ex. 16.
            In November 2021, Ryan contacted Caltrans
CFO Keck to invoke Megeen’s right to occupy the Property.  Ryan Decl., ¶5.  Keck connected Ryan with Dabney, who in turn
said she would speak with Francis about Megeen’s displacement.  Ryan Decl., ¶5.  
            On August 3, 2022, Ryan emailed
Francis a copy of Megeen’s December 1999 Claim for Moving Expenses (Megeen
Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4) as proof that she had been displaced from the Property.  Ryan Decl., ¶6, Ex. 1.  Ryan noted that the top of the form had “Rehabilitation
RAP” handwritten on it.  Ryan Decl., ¶6,
Ex. 1.  Francis told him “RAP” was an
acronym for “Relocation Assistance Program.” 
Ryan Decl., ¶6.  Francis agreed to
talk to Ryan over telephone to address Megeen’s concerns.  Ryan Decl., ¶6.  
            During a phone call later that
month, Francis confirmed that the Property had been completely renovated and
briefly occupied.  Ryan Decl., ¶7.  Ryan again told Francis that Megeen had been
displaced from the Property and wanted to exercise her right to return to
it.  Ryan Decl., ¶7.  On September 19, Francis told him he had been
in contact with various Caltrans divisions to investigate and determine the
appropriate final determination regarding Megeen’s residence at both the
Property and Bank Property.  Ryan Decl.,
¶7, Ex. 2.  
            Megeen first learned that Property
renovations were complete when Ryan learned that from Francis.  Megeen Decl., ¶21.  Caltrans and Francis never rendered a final
determination as to Megeen’s right to the Property.  Ryan Decl., ¶8; Megeen Decl., ¶22.  Megeen filed this suit and had a lis
pendens recorded to prevent the Property’s sale to the City.  Megeen Decl., ¶22. 
            As part of discovery, Caltrans let
Megeen enter the Property on October 20, 2023. 
Megeen Decl., ¶25.  The
renovations she observed included redone hardwood floors, repainted walls, new
showers in the bathrooms, and the new air conditioning unit.  Megeen Decl., ¶25.  These renovations led her to believe that Caltrans
intended to again allow the unit to be occupied.  Megeen Decl., ¶25.
 
            b. Other
Properties
            Caltrans
has complied with Govt. Code section 7265.3(d) for other properties.  Megeen Decl., ¶23.  On July 28, 2020, when Caltrans renovated
5512 Atlas Street, Los Angeles, CA 90032 (“Atlas”), the parcel diary shows that
Caltrans “temporarily” relocated the inhabitants to 5501 Berkshire Drive, Los
Angeles, CA 90032 (“Berkshire”).  Megeen
Decl., ¶23, Ex. 17.  An entry for
December 17, 2020 shows the agent had security and the tenant swap the keys for
Atlas and Berkshire.  Megeen Decl., ¶23,
Ex. 17.  
            On July
14, 2023, Caltrans sent Megeen a Notice of Solicitation to purchase the Bank
Property.  Megeen Decl., ¶24, Ex. 18.  To preserve her interest in the Bank Property
pending this action, she joined her husband Gary Wong (“Wong”) and her son Ryan
in submitting a letter to the state expressing interest in such a
purchase.  Megeen Decl., ¶24.
 
            2. Caltrans’ Evidence
            a. The FAP
            The FAP (RJN Ex. A) asserts that when Lavender informed
Megeen that the McLaughlins would be displaced from the Property for
renovations, Megeen required Caltrans to guarantee they could return after the
renovations.  FAP, ¶¶ 16-17.  Caltrans agreed, and Lavender promised to provide
an MOU to that effect soon after the McLaughlins vacated.  FAP, ¶¶ 18, 24.  At the time, Caltrans led Megeen to believe
renovations would begin immediately and not take more than a year.  FAP, ¶19. 
The second cause of action alleges that the McLaughlins believed that Caltrans
intended to allow them to return to the Property after renovations were
finished.  FAP, ¶68.  The FAP further asserts that Lavender asked
Megeen via phone in January 2001 if she had received the promised MOU.  FAP, ¶25. 
Megeen replied that she was still waiting for it.  FAP, ¶25.
 
            b. The Purported MOU
            Caltrans Right-of-Way Deputy Director Dan Murdoch (“Murdoch”)
has reviewed the records for the Property. 
Murdoch Decl., ¶4.  There is no
record of an MOU or other written contract promising to allow Megeen to return
to the Property after renovations.  Murdoch
Decl., ¶4.  Lavender did not have the
authority to enter into an agreement for Megeen to return to the Property without
supervisor approval, and such an agreement would have had to be in
writing.  Murdoch Decl., ¶5.  
 
            c. Depositions and Declarations
            In a September 7, 2023 declaration, Megeen asserted that
Lavender had concealed herself in a property she owns at 5563 Village Grn, Los
Angeles, California, 90016.  RJN Ex. B
(Megeen Disc. Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8).  Since
March 2023, six attempts to serve her with a deposition subpoena at this
address had failed.  Megeen Disc. Decl.,
¶¶ 4-7.  
            Megeen has admitted in deposition that the Property and
Bank Property are close to each other.  DiPietro
Decl., Ex. C (Megeen Depo., p. 45).  Ryan
estimated that the two properties are about three to five minutes apart by
car.  DiPietro Decl., Ex. D (Ryan Depo.,
pp. 82-83).  Wong moved in with Megeen at
the Bank Property in 2006 or 2008.  Megeen Depo., p.
46; DiPietro Decl., Ex. E (Wong Depo., p. 13).
            While
living at the Bank Property, Megeen would learn about filming at the Property from
either driving past it or talking to three of her former neighbors.  Megeen Depo., pp. 48-49.  Those conversations were rare and mostly
happened a few times a year before 2005, when Megeen walked by their
houses.  Megeen Depo., pp. 49-50.  
            Since 2005, Megeen has passed that neighborhood less than
once a year.  Megeen Depo., pp. 50-51.  Wong testified that he passed the Property
when going grocery shopping at Trader Joe’s about a month before his deposition.  Wong Depo., pp. 25-26.  Trader Joe’s is their default grocery store
for smaller items.  Wong Depo., p. 26.  He is on daily pain medication and there is a
chance they affect his already bad memory. 
Wong Depo., p. 46.
            Megeen peeked inside the house on the Property twice
before Caltrans blacked out the windows.  Megeen Depo., p. 51.  She became emotional when she said this
during the deposition because it was in disrepair, her plants were all dead, and she saw signs of
vandalism.  Megeen Depo., pp. 51-52.  Wong remembered Megeen becoming emotional during
the one time they visited the Property together.  Wong Depo., pp. 48-49.
            Megeen suspected the house was broken into several
times.  Megeen Depo., p. 53.  The pool was filled with water, and the
neighbors said this was because some kids kept chucking rocks into it.  Megeen Depo., p. 53.
            Megeen told Lavender in January 2001 that she was still
waiting for an MOU, but she never asked about it again because she trusted
Lavender.  Megeen Depo., pp. 61-62.  Megeen never asked anyone else at Caltrans
for the MOU, both because she did not think she needed to do so and because she
did not know who else could provide it.  Megeen
Depo., pp. 62-63.  To date, Megeen does
not know if an MOU exists.  Megeen Depo.,
p. 63.  She has admitted that she possesses
no document showing any agreement with the State to move back into the
Property.  DiPietro Decl., Ex. G (Megeen
RFA Reply No. 9).
            Ryan testified that he spoke to Chan in 2015 about the
agreement with Lavender to move back into the Property once renovations were
completed.  Ryan Depo., p. 82.  Chan responded that the McLaughlins could not
afford to move back in.  Ryan Depo., p.
82; DiPietro Decl., Ex. F (Megeen SPROG Reply No. 6).  Ryan could not remember if he answered.  Ryan Depo., p. 82.  The house looked like it was still in
disrepair and no one had lived there for 16 years.  Ryan Depo., p. 82.  He told Megeen about the conversation with
Chan soon thereafter.  Ryan Depo., p.
134.  
 
            d. Inspection
            When Megeen inspected the Property in October 2023, she
commented on the installed air conditioning unit.  DiPietro Decl., ¶6.  That unit is attached to and visible from the
outside of the house.  DiPietro Decl.,
¶6.
 
            3. Reply Evidence[5]
            a. Pre-Litigation Discussions
            In June 2015, Chan inspected the Bank Property while
Megeen was away on business.  Ryan Supp.
Decl., ¶5.  It was during this inspection
that Ryan informed Chan of Megeen’s intent to relocate back to the Property
after renovations were complete.  Ryan Supp.
Decl., ¶5.  Chan said she “could not
afford to move back” because she was on the state’s affordable rent program.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶5.  Chan did not say the Property had been
renovated to move-in standards as of December 2014, or that he was its manager
during the final stages of the renovation. 
Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶5.  The
McLaughlins only found that out through discovery in this lawsuit.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶5.  
            After Dabney promised to speak to Francis about Megeen’s
displacement in November 2021, Ryan never heard from her.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.  He began to look for a way to contact Francis
himself.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶8.  On July 29, 2022, he emailed Caltrans
Director of District 7, Gloria Roberts (“Roberts”), who was Francis’ superior, about
Megeen’s concerns.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶8,
Ex. 1.  Roberts stated that both Francis
and her Chief of Staff would contact Ryan. 
Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶8, Ex. 1.
            On August 3, 2022, Francis told Ryan that Caltrans staff
would locate and review the file related to the McLaughlins’ tenancy.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶9, Ex. 2.  Ryan sent him the December 1999 Claim for
Reasonable Moving Expenses with “Rehabilitation RAP” handwritten at the top of
the page.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶9, Ex.
2.  Francis informed Ryan that “RAP” is
an acronym for “Relocation Assistance Program.” 
Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶9, Ex. 2.  
            Francis and Ryan discussed the matter via telephone on
August 8, 2022.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶10,
Ex. 3.  Francis confirmed that the
Property had been completely renovated and briefly occupied thereafter.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶10.  This was the first that Ryan learned the
Property had been renovated in a manner suitable for occupancy.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶10.  Ryan again told Francis that Megeen had been displaced
from the Property and wanted to exercise her right to return to it.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶10.
            On September 14, 2022, Francis reported that he could not
find an MOU for the Property or any reference to one in Lavender’s parcel
diary.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶12, Ex.
5.  While Caltrans could not confirm her Roberti
right to the Property, Megeen did have a right to purchase the Bank Property.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶12, Ex. 5.  
            On September 19, 2022, Ryan responded that his family had
the right to purchase the Property because they only relocated under Caltrans’
misrepresentation that they could move back in once renovations were
complete.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶13, Ex. 6.  Francis responded that he had been in contact
with various Caltrans divisions to investigate and determine the appropriate
final determination regarding Megeen’s residence at both the Property and Bank
Property.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶13, Ex.
6.  On September 21, Ryan emphasized that
he hoped to have a response soon because his family was in the “proverbial 11th
hour” as to the sale of the Property to the City per emergency
legislation.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶14, Ex. 7.  
            In the final days of September 2022, Francis asked to
coordinate a meeting between Caltrans and the McLaughlins’ counsel to discuss
the matter further.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶¶
15-17, Ex. 8.  When Ryan asked for updates
on October 4, 2022, Francis replied the attorney handling the matter was out of
the office.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶18, Ex.
9.
            On November 9, 2022, Ryan informed Francis that he had
filed a complaint with the Department of General Services based on Caltrans’
failure to move the McLaughlins back into the Property for more than 45
days.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶19, Ex. 10.  Ryan asserted that their only option now was
a lawsuit.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶19, Ex.
10.  
            On November 14, 2022, Francis replied that counsel for
both sides had been in conversations.  Ryan
Supp. Decl., ¶20, Ex. 10.  He would
follow up as soon as he had an update.  Ryan
Supp. Decl., ¶20, Ex. 10.  Ryan responded
the next day that the McLaughlins had waited patiently and “reached out several
times, to many in the upper echelons of the Caltrans bureaucracy, more than a
year ago.”  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶21, Ex.
10.  He would file the lawsuit later that
week unless Caltrans let his family move back into the Property.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶21, Ex. 10.  He did not hear from Francis or counsel for
Caltrans, and he filed the lawsuit two weeks later.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶21.
            The Caltrans Guide explains that if a displaced
individual expresses dissatisfaction with the determination about relocation
benefits and eligibility, either verbally or in writing, Caltrans would help
file an appeal and explain the procedures to follow.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶22, Ex. 11.  Caltrans never issued a final determination for
the McLaughlins’ rights to the Property, and it never informed them of the
administrative appeal process.  Ryan Supp.
Decl., ¶¶ 22-23.
 
            b. Serving Lavender
            On March 1, 2023, Megeen went to Lavender’s home.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶6.  An older gentlemen answered and went upstairs
to tell Lavender Megeen was at the door. 
Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶6.  He came
down a few minutes later and said Lavender could not come to the door.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶6.  He said Megeen should try calling her but
refused to confirm her phone number before closing the door.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶6.  
            When process servers tried to serve Lavender in June
2023, a resident “Al” said Lavender was not home and would be going on vacation
soon, to return in a month.  Megeen Supp.
Decl., ¶7, Ex. 1.  However, when process
servers tried to serve Lavender in August 2023, the person who answered the
door said she no longer lived there.  Megeen
Supp. Decl., ¶8, Ex. 2.  
            Megeen does not know if Lavender was in contact with
Caltrans during the pendency of this suit. 
Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶8.  However,
Caltrans has represented and contacted former employees in this matter without
prior notice to Megeen.  Megeen Supp.
Decl., ¶8.  
 
            c. Property Inspection
            Megeen’s job involved extensive travel from 1999 until
the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in 2010 and from 2014 through 2019.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶5.  During the heavy travel years, she was unable
to walk by the Property or visit neighbors thereto, except to see the Property
had not been updated to historical standards based on the asbestos tile
siding.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶5.
            When Megeen inspected the Property in October 2023, she
noted the interior improvements before moving to the backyard.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.  The six-foot tall wooden fence obscures the
view of the backyard from the street until the security guard opens it.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶11, Ex. 4.  The new air conditioning unit is in an east
bay, or niche, of the backyard and completely obscured from the street.  Megeen Supp. Decl., ¶12, Exs. 5-6.  
 
            E.
Analysis
            Petitioner
Megeen seeks judgment based on undisputed facts directing Caltrans to restore
her family’s rightful occupation of the Property.  
            Some of the relevant
facts are not reasonably in dispute.  In 1999,
Caltrans contractors decided the McLaughlins needed to vacate the Property to
allow for $374,229 in rehabilitation work. 
Megeen Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.   On
December 2, 1999, per Govt. Code section 7262(a)(1) of the Relocation
Assistance Act, Caltrans provided Megeen with reasonable moving expenses.  Megeen Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.   As Caltrans’ parcel diary for the Property
shows, Megeen was displaced from the Property and relocated to the Bank Property
during the second week of that month “due to historical property
renovations.”  Megeen Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.  However, many other
facts are disputed and Megeen’s motion must be denied for this reason.  
 
            1. The Second
Cause of Action Is for Mandamus
            Caltrans
argues that Megeen no longer has a mandamus claim after her first cause of
action for mandamus was dismissed for failure to exhaust administrative
remedies.  Megeen’s sole remaining cause
of action is for equitable estoppel, which is a theory but not an independent
cause of action.  Moncada v. W. Coast
Quartz Corp., (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 782.  Additionally, if the court views the second
cause of action as made for breach of oral contract, it is barred by both the
statute of frauds and the two-year statute of limitations for breach of
contract (CCP §339).  Megeen had actual
notice of the breach in 2015 when Chan told Ryan that they could not move back
into the Property because they could not afford it.  Yet, Megeen waited another six years to bring
her complaint.  Meegen also had
constructive notice because she was told the renovation would take less than a
year and it took nearly two decades to complete, Meegen had been promised a MOU
yet none was ever provided, and she visited the Property no less than 20 times
since 1999 and could see that it was not being actively renovated.  Therefore, a breach of contract claim is time-barred.  Opp. at 4-7.
            Megeen
explains that she is not making a claim for breach of contract.  Mot. at 13. 
Rather, the second cause of action seeks mandamus under the Relocation
Assistance Act for which she has no obligation to exhaust administrative
remedies.  Unlike the first cause of
action made under the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisition Policy Act, she must exhaust administrative remedies pursuant to
the Relocation Assistance Act, only if denied eligibility or payment.  Govt. Code §7266(b).  She has not been denied payment and she seeks
only equitable, not monetary, relief.  Reply
at 3-4.
            Although
the second cause of action does not mention the Relocation Assistance Act, it
does refer to mandamus.  Pet, ¶74.  The court accepts for purposes of this motion
that the second cause of action seeks mandamus to compel Caltrans to perform a
ministerial duty under the Relocation Assistance Act and relies on the doctrine
of equitable estoppel in doing so.  
In so doing, the
court does not necessarily agree with Megeen that she was not required to
exhaust her administrative remedies. 
Govt. Code section 7266( b) provides that, if a relocation
appeals board has been established, that city may by ordinance designate it to hear
appeals from all public entities, except those state agencies which have an
appeal process, on the eligibility for, or the amount of, relocation payment
benefits authorized by Govt. Code sections 7260 et seq.  Govt. Code §7266(a).  Any person aggrieved by a determination as to
eligibility for, or the amount of, such payment may have the application
reviewed by the public entity or by the relocation appeals board if the board
is authorized to review it per such an ordinance.  Govt. Code §7266(b).  Govt. Code section 7266(b)
allows a relocation appeals board to review determinations as to “eligibility
for” relocation benefits under Govt. Code sections 7260 et seq.  The relocation benefits reviewable by an
appeals board may include the option to relocate to the original dwelling after
its rehabilitation.  However, Caltrans
does not show that there is a relocation appeals board created by ordinance and
does not argue this issue.  
Additionally, Megeen argues that Ryan attempted to exhaust her administrative remedies through his
conversations with Francis.  Reply at
4.  From August to November 2022, Ryan
and Francis exchanged emails about Megeen’s right to relocate to the Property
because the renovations were complete. 
Ryan Supp. Decl., Exs. 2-10.  The
Caltrans Guide also explains that if a displaced individual expresses
dissatisfaction with the determination about relocation benefits and
eligibility, either verbally or in writing, Caltrans would help file an appeal
and explain the procedures to follow. 
Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶22, Ex. 11.  Caltrans
never told Ryan about the appeal process during their conversations.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶22.  While the appeal process entitles a displace
to contest a final determination, Caltrans never reached a final
determination.   Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶22,
Ex. 11.  Francis’s final email to Ryan
asked for time to speak with counsel about the current situation.  Ryan Supp. Decl., ¶20, Ex. 10.  
The court concludes
that the exhaustion issue concerns disputed issues of fact and law that must be
addressed at trial.  By itself,
this requires denial of the motion.
 
            2.
Merits of the Relocation Assistance Act Claim
            A
person displaced by rehabilitation work which is wholly or partially financed
or assisted with public funds provided by or through the public entity shall,
as a condition of the financing or assistance, be given the option of
relocating, after rehabilitation, in the dwelling from which the person was
displaced.  Govt. Code §7265.3(d).
            Megeen
relies on Caltrans’ ministerial duty under Govt. Code section 7265.3(d) to give
her the option of relocating to the Property after its rehabilitation and its
failure to do so.  Caltrans does not
dispute this duty in opposing the motion. 
Megeen relies on the doctrine of equitable estoppel to prevent any
unstated limitations period from passing.[6]              
Equitable estoppel applies in
circumstances where a party has induced another into forbearing to act.  Lantzy
v. Centex Homes, (2003) 31 Cal.App.4th 363, 383.  The elements of estoppel as to a private
party are: (1) the party to be estopped must be appraised of the facts; (2) he
must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act
that the party asserting the estoppel had a right to believe it was so
intended; (3) the other party must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and
(4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.  Lentz v. McMahon, (1989)0
49 Cal.3d 393, 399; Driscoll v. City of Los Angeles, (1967) 67 Cal.2d 297, 305.  The doctrine of equitable
estoppel applies to a public entity when, in addition to the elements of
equitable estoppel for a private entity, the injustice which would result from
a failure to estop the agency is sufficient to justify any adverse effect upon
public interest or policy which would result. 
City of Long Beach v. Mansell, (1970) 3 Cal.3d 462, 496-97.  
Megeen argues that
the undisputed facts show that all the elements of equitable estoppel are
met.  As Caltrans argues, equitable
estoppel is a question of fact unless the facts are undisputed.  See Feduniak v. California Coastal
Commission, (2002) 148 Cal.App.4th 1346,1360.  Opp. at 8.
 
a. Caltrans Must Be Appraised of the Facts
Megeen argues that Caltrans
was apprised of the facts concerning its own project to renovate historic
properties.  It also received rents from,
and maintained, the properties that were the subject of the program.  Mot. at 9.
Caltrans responds
that it did not know all the facts.  It
incorrectly believed that renovations would be completed within a year, there
was a mistake whether Lavender’s promise to return had to be in writing through
an MOU, and there was a mistake whether Lavender had authority to enter into
such an agreement.  Opp. at 9.
The court concludes
that Caltrans was apprised of the true facts every step of the way as events
occurred, with the exception of the fact that Lavender purported to enter into
an agreement with Megeen for her return to the Property.  Lavender had no authority to enter into such
an agreement and there is no evidence that she informed her superiors of that promise.  Caltrans’ full and complete knowledge is a
disputed issue of fact.
 
b. Caltrans Must Intend That Its Conduct
Shall Be Acted Upon, or Must So Act That Megeen Had a Right to Believe
It Was So Intended
Megeen argues that,
pursuant to Govt. Code section 7265.3(d), she had a right to believe that
Caltrans would return her to the Property following completed renovations.  Moreover, when her family vacated the Property, Lavender
promised on Caltrans’ behalf that Megeen could move back when renovations were
complete.  Megeen Decl., ¶7.  She also promised Megeen would receive a
Caltrans MOU to that effect.  Megeen
Decl., ¶7.  Finally,
Caltrans’ parcel diary and work order for the Property states that she will be
relocated to another State-owned property due to historical property
renovations and she was moved to the Bank Property.  Finally, the Property was occupied for at
least a brief time in 2015 and is currently unoccupied.  Mot. at 9-10.
Caltrans responds that it never intended for Megeen to return to the
Property and it did not act in a way for Megeen to believe she had that
right.  There is no MOU between the
parties, and Lavender had no authority to make a promise that Megeen could
return.  When Lavender asked in the first
week of January 2001, Megeen had not received this MOU.  Megeen Decl., ¶8.  Megeen never asked for a MOU after 2001,
showing that she knew she would not be allowed to return to the Property.
Megeen’s statutory right under Govt. Code section 7265.3(d) do not
show Caltrans’ intent. The evidence presented by the parties supports a
conclusion that Caltrans did not intend for Meggen to return to the Property and
that Megeen had no right to believe that it did (with the exception of her
statutory right).  The facts presented on
this issue favor Caltrans and at least are a disputed issue.
 
c. Megeen Must Be Ignorant of the True State
of Facts
Megeen contends that
she was ignorant of the true facts.  The
Property was renovated at least 15 years after she was forced to vacate it in
December 1999.  Caltrans never renovated
the Property to historic standards and never notified her that it failed to do
so.  The majority of the renovations
actually performed to the Property were to the interior and she could not have
known that they had been completed without notice from Caltrans, which never
occurred.  Nor did she know that Caltrans
placed a tenant at the Property; she only found out in a telephone call with
Francis in August 2022.  Mot. at 10-11.
Caltrans responds
that Megeen was not ignorant of the true facts because she was on notice.  A plaintiff is ignorant of the facts if she
“did not have notice of the facts sufficient to put a reasonably prudent man
upon inquiry, the pursuit of which would have led to actual knowledge….”  Larue v. Swoap,(1975) 51 Cal.App.3d
543, 551.  Megeen knew or should have
been aware of the actual facts.  A
prudent person would have made inquiry much earlier than she did.  She never received the promised MOU.  She was told by Chan (through Ryan) in 2015
that she could not move back into the Property. 
She should have observed the existence of another tenant in 2015-17
during her multiple trips past the Property. 
The air conditioner installed in 2015 would have been easily
ascertainable from her visits.  See DiPietro
Decl., ¶6.  Opp. at 10.
Megeen replies that the
renovation was mostly to the Property’s interior, and she could not know
whether they had been performed by walking past.  It appeared to her that the renovations were
not complete because the asbestos tiling remained on the exterior.  While her husband, Wong, acknowledged that
drove by the Property once a month, Caltrans is trying to take advantage of the
poor memory of an elderly man on pain medication who has a poor memory.  Reply at 7.
Again, Megeen’s
knowledge is an issue of fact.  Whatever
she observed at the Property, there is a serious question whether she should
have asked Caltrans periodically about the status of renovations and her right
to return.
 
d. Megeen Must Have Relied Upon the Conduct
to Her Injury
Megeen contends that
she relied on Caltrans’ promise to relocate her following completion of the
renovations.  The Bank Property is
significantly smaller home than the home at the Property.  If she does not occupy the Property, she will
not be eligible to purchase it under the Roberti Law (Govt. Code §§
54235-39).  Mot. at 11-12.
Megeen notes that Caltrans
has allowed other tenants relocated for renovations to return to their original
homes once renovations were complete.  In
July 2020, Caltrans renovated Atlas and relocated the inhabitants to
Berkshire.  Megeen Decl., ¶23, Ex.
17.  The parcel diary shows that Caltrans
returned the keys for Atlas to the owners in December 2020 once renovations
were complete.  Megeen Decl., ¶23, Ex.
17.  Caltrans complied with its duties
under Govt. Code section 7265.3(d) for Atlas, but it has failed to do so for
her.  Mot. at 12-13.
Caltrans contends
that Megeen did not reasonably rely on any Caltrans conduct.  She could not rely on Lavendar’s statements
because she had no authority to make a promise and Megeen never received a
MOU.  No supervisor or other agent
affirmed any alleged agreement for her to move back into the renovated
Property.  As stated, another tenant
moved into the Property in 2015 and Ryan was informed by Chan that Megeen could
not return.  Finally, Megeen was not
injured by Caltrans’ conduct.  Caltrans
had the right as the Property owner to move Megeen and she suffered no injury
from dong so.  Opp. at 11.
This is another
disputed issue of fact, and one of Megeen’s weakest points.  How did she rely on Caltrans’ conduct in
failing to timely make a claim?  It is
not enough to say that she would benefit from the right to purchase a larger
home or that Caltrans has provided a benefit of return to other tenants. 
 
e. Conclusion
Megeen has not
demonstrated on undisputed facts that the doctrine of equitable estoppel should
apply to excuse any passage of the limitation period for Caltrans to perform a
ministerial duty under Govt. Code section 7265.3(d).[7]
 
            3. Laches
A claim based on the public
duty of a local or state agency may be barred by the doctrine of laches.  People v. Dept. of Housing & Community
Development, (1975)45 Cal.App.3d 185, 195. 
The claim is barred by the laches where the plaintiff is guilty of
unreasonable delay in commending litigation plus either the plaintiff
acquiesces to the defendant’s alleged wrongful act or the defendant is
prejudiced by the delay.  Johnson v.
City of Loma Linda, (2000) 24 Cal.4th 61, 68; Conti v. Board of Civil
Service Commissioners, (1969) 1 Cal.3d 351, 359-360.  The defense applies fully to mandamus claims
as well as other claims.  Schellinger
Brothers v. City of Sebastopol, (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1245, 1267-68.
Caltrans argues that Megeen is guilty
of laches.  She delayed anywhere from
more than six to 20 years to assert her rights, despite both actual and
constructive notice that Caltrans had breached any promise to relocate her to
the Property.[8]  Her delay was not reasonable, and Caltrans
has been prejudiced because documentary evidence potentially has been lost and
a key witness retired and refuses to cooperate. 
Opp. at 8.
Megeen replies that the Property
remained vacant for at least 15 years following her displacement.  She lacked the information necessary to bring
a claim against Caltrans when the renovations were completed because Caltrans
failed to inform her of that fact, despite its statutory duty under Govt. Code
section 7265.3(d).  The City, not
Caltrans, informed her about the vacant State-owned properties and she
desperately tried to contact Caltrans thereafter.  Nor has Caltrans been prevented from
presenting a defense.  It provides no
evidence of harm by a lack of such evidence. 
Caltrans presents no evidence that it has attempted to serve a
deposition notice on Lavender.  Reply at
3, 14.
Caltrans’ conclusionary argument
fails to support laches.  The court
accepts for purposes of argument that Megeen’s delay was unreasonable, but
Caltrans fails to show prejudice.  Nor do
the parties discuss case law on the relationship of equitable estoppel against a
public agency and laches.  Again, this is
a disputed issue for trial.



            
F. Conclusion
            There are numerous
disputed factual issues, as well as undeveloped legal issues, and the motion
for judgment is denied.


