 Case Number:  23TRCV03516    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                              Tuesday, May 7, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 7
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Techno-Advanced, Inc. v. Milender White
Residential SoCal Corp., et al.
            23TRCV03516
1.      Milender White Residential SoCal Corp.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Milender White Residential SoCal
Corp.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on October
20, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendants St. Market D3 LLC
and Inglewood Market Gateway LLC were owners of real property located on 205
Market Street/213 East Regent Street, Inglewood, California known as Inglewood
Gateway Market. Milender White Residential SoCal (“Milender White”) was the
general contractor on the project. Milender White and Techno-Advanced executed
a subcontract under which Techno-Advanced provided equipment, materials, and
labor to Milender White for the Inglewood Market Gateway project (“Project”). Plaintiff’s
payment on the project was unduly delayed. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 1280, et seq. on the grounds that Plaintiff executed an arbitration
agreement wherein Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate the claims alleged in the
Complaint.
 
Plaintiff attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint the
purported agreement which was also attached to the points and authorities of
the motion to compel arbitration. The arbitration provision states, on Section
15, as follows:
 
“Arbitration. Subcontractor/Vendor agreed to binding
arbitration as the agree form of dispute resolution for any claims arising
under this Agreement. The arbitration shall be administered by the American
Arbitration Association (“AAA”) pursuant to the AAA’s Construction Industry
Arbitration Rules then in effect, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Subcontractor/Vendor agrees that if the Contractor is compelled to Arbitrate
(or engage in another specified non-judicial method of resolution) under the
Prime Contract, the Subcontractor/Vendor may be joined by Contractor in any
such action or proceeding involving the project that is subject of this
Agreement.” 
 
Thus, the moving party met
its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause between
the parties. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the
arbitration clause should not be enforced. Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th
at 1223. Plaintiff filed no written opposition to the motion. 
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to
Stay Action is granted.  
 
An OSC re: Arbitration Status is set for
_________________.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.