 Case Number:  23VECV01951    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  W PACIFIC
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT LLC v. ARASH "ALEX" ABBASSI, et al.
 
plaintiff’s
WRIT OF ATTACHMENT
 
Date
of Hearing:        September 26, 2023             Trial Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        23vecv01951
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Pacific Aviation Development
LLC
Responding Party:     Defendant Arash “Alex” Abbassi  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
May 4, 2023, Plaintiff Pacific Aviation Development LLC filed a complaint
against Defendants Arash “Alex” Abbassi, Encore Flight Corporation, Elevate
Flight Academy LLC dba Elevate Flight Academy Inc. for breach of lease and
breach of guaranty. Plaintiff is the master tenant under a lease with the City
of Los Angeles for the lease of thirty acres of land located at the northwest
corner of the Van Nuys Airport. Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and Encore entered
into a Tie Down Agreement on May 3, 2017 to sublease eleven “parking” spaces
for the tying down and storage of certificated, currently registered aircraft
in airworthy condition at the Park. Plaintiff further alleges it and Encore
entered into a sublease for premises known as Hangar Delta 3. Plaintiff also
entered into an office sublease with Elevate. Defendant Abbassi provided a personal
guaranty on the Hangar Lease and Office Lease. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
breached the lease and guaranty by failing to pay any rent and comply with the
terms of the agreements. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
 Plaintiff’s
Writ of Attachment is Continued.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In opposition, Defendants request the court take
judicial notice of the following documents: (1) The Complaint filed on January
17, 2022 in Pacific Aviation Development LLC v. Encore Flight Corp., LASC Case
No. 23VEUD00106 (Exh. A); (2) The Complaint filed on January 17, 2022 in
Pacific Aviation Development LLC v. Elevate Flight Academy Inc., LASC Case No.
23VEUD00107 (Exh. B); and (3) The Los Angeles Eviction Moratorium, LAMC § 49.99
et seq. (Exh. C). 
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial
notice. (Evid. Code §452(c), (d).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants objections 1-14 are sustained for lack of
foundation. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
Pacific Aviation Development LLC requests the court grant Plaintiff’s Application
and issue a Right to Attach Order and a Writ of Attachment against Defendant
Abbassi on the grounds Plaintiff’s applications meet the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 483.010. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendant Abbassi, an individual, are not exempt form attachment as Plaintiff’s
claims against Abbassi arise form Abbassi’s alleged conduct. 
 
A writ of attachment may be issued only
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500). (CCP §483.010(a).) A claim is “readily ascertainable” where the amount
due may be clearly ascertained from the contract and calculated by evidence;
the fact that damages are unliquidated is not determinative. (CIT
Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
537, 540-41 [attachment appropriate for claim based on rent calculation for
lease of commercial equipment].) 
 
The application shall be executed under
oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to
secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a
statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that
the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based;  (4)
a statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is
discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding
under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and  (5) a description of the property to be
attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed
and believes that such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.) Code
Civil Procedure section 487.010(a) provides that “[w]here the defendant is a
corporation, all corporate property for which a method of levy is provided” is
subject to attachment.
 
“The declarations in the moving papers
must contain evidentiary facts, stated ‘with particularity,’ and based on
actual personal knowledge with all documentary evidence properly identified and
authenticated.” (Hobbs, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at p. 79–80 [citing
CCP § 482.040].) “In contested applications, the court must consider the
relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a
determination of¿the probable outcome of the litigation.” (Hobbs, supra,
73 Cal.App.4th at p. 80.) 
  
Plaintiff
argues the amount is readily ascertainable according to the terms of the December
1, 2017 sublease between Encore and Plaintiff for the Delta 3 Premise (“Delta 3
Sublease”) and the October 10, 2019 sublease between Elevate and Plaintiff for
the Echo 111 Premises (“Echo 111 Sublease”). Plaintiff contends there is also evidence
of all invoices and reminder statements sent by Plaintiff to Encore and Elevate
for the payment of their outstanding balances. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant Abbassi argues the amount is not ascertainable on the
grounds the
declaration of Steve Argubright only makes generalized statements about the
amounts owed and fails to provide any basis for Mr. Argubright’s personal
knowledge, foundation or authentication of Mr. Argubright’s statements nor
provides the basis for the amount requested.
 
The court agrees the
declaration does not sufficiently provide who Mr. Argubright is in relation to
Pacific Aviation. A proper foundation must be established for declarations and
affidavits showing the declarant had personal knowledge of each fact
stated. (See Generale Bank Nederland v. Eyes of the Beholder Ltd. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1390.) As a result, Paragraph 1 of Mr. Argubright’s
declaration that the information provided is based on his “personal, first-hand
knowledge” is insufficient. Moreover, there are some discrepancies between the
Argubright declaration and application. 
 
The court notes the
declarations, however, are not entirely conclusory. The declaration provides a
readily ascertainable amount which includes $105,635.00 for the Delta 3
sublease (the monthly was $7,200.) and Elevate will owe Plaintiff a total of
$39,944.75 in outstanding rent due. The court notes Plaintiff also seeks $3,240
in late fees on the Delta 3 sublease and $695.19 in late fees, $1,615.50 in
utility charges, $6,321.25 in legal fees and $562.13 in costs on the lease with
Elevate. However, the legal fees and costs are inappropriate at this time. Code
of Civil Procedure section 483.010(a) provides “readily ascertainable amount
not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs,
interest, and attorney's fees.” As such, Plaintiff cannot seek the additional
costs in their writ of attachment. 
 
Defendant Abbassi
also argues the writ of attachment claims illegal late fees. Defendant contends
the Writ of Attachment must also fail because the total requested amount
contains illegal late fees as late fees were prohibited by the City of Los
Angeles COVID Moratorium, which also pertained to commercial tenancies. (L.A.M.C.
§§ 49.99.3.) The court agrees the late fees are also not ascertainable at this
time. A Landlord may not charge any late fees, interest, penalties, or other
related fees on timely late payments covered under the Moratorium. (L.A.M.C. §§
49.99.3.) 
 
Accordingly, the
court continues the hearing so Plaintiff may provide a proper declaration. 
 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’ Writ of Attachment is
Continued  
 