  Case Number:  23VECV00909    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  W DEBRA B. SILBERT v. TARZANA MEDICAL
CENTER, LLC, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for trial preference
 
Date of Hearing:        September 26, 2023                         Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00909
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Debra B.
Silbert
Responding
Party:     No opposition   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 28, 2023, Plaintiff Debra B. Silbert filed a complaint
for negligence against Tarzana Medical Center, LLC, Providence Health System –
Southern California, and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Plaintiff alleges while
admitted to Tarzana Medical Center, LLC, she suffered from a preventable fall.
Plaintiff alleges Tarzana Medical Center was aware of Plaintiff’s s Morse Fall
Risk Assessment which indicated her fall risk score was 100 yet Plaintiff was
found on the ground in the hallway outside her room at Tarzana. Plaintiff
further alleges Tarzana Medical Center concealed the incident from the California
Department of Public Health and did not report the incident despite its
obligation to do so.
 
Plaintiff dismissed Providence Health System – Southern California
on April 7, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Debra B. Silbert move this court for an order granting a
trial preference pursuant to California Rules of Court 3.1335 and California
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivisions (a), (c), (e), and (f), on the
ground that Plaintiff is over 70 years of age with an unstable health condition
who has a substantial interest in the action as a whole thereby necessitating a
preferential trial setting to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in the
litigation.
 
"A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings: (1) [t]he party has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole[; and] (2) [t]he health of the party is such
that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in
the litigation.”  (CCP § 36(a).)  
 
A motion made under Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision
(a) “may be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration ‘based
upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any
party’. [Citation.]”  (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
529, 534, citing CCP § 36.5 [“[a]n affidavit in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].) The affidavit may also consist
entirely of hearsay and conclusions. (Id.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has made an adequate showing she has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole and her health is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the
litigation. Plaintiff is 73 years old. (Silbert Decl. ¶2.) As the named
Plaintiff in this case and the injured party, Plaintiff has a substantial
interest in this action. (Silbert Decl. ¶¶3-10.) While admitted at Tarzana Medical
Center from a rehabilitation facility for abdominal pain and related symptoms,
Plaintiff suffered from a fall outside of her hospital room in the hallway
while unattended. (Silbert Decl. ¶5.) Plaintiff’s Morse Fall Risk Assessment had
indicated her fall risk score was 100 and further indicated she was at high
risk for injury. (Silbert Decl. ¶4.) Since her fall, Plaintiff has undergone a
craniotomy with evacuation of subdural hematoma and drain placement as well as craniotomies,
CT scans, X-rays, MRIs, PET scans, neurological examinations, and more.
(Silbert Decl. ¶¶6-9.) As a result, Plaintiff continues to suffer fall related
adverse consequences and is confined to a bed at Valley Palms Care Center in
North Hollywood, California. (Silbert Decl. ¶10.) Substantial prejudice
therefore could result as it is reasonably likely she may pass or become
incapable of participating in trial unless preference is granted.  (Markarian Decl. ¶17.) 
 
The motion is unopposed. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
for trial preference is GRANTED. 
 