 Case Number:  24STCV12200    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-19-24
Case
#24STCV12200
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Christine Brito, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Kostiv & Associates, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Special
Motion to Strike the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Kostiv & Associates and Petro Kostiv represented third party client, Lessly
Yadira Velasquez Gomez, et al. in a certain matter. Gomez, et al. apparently
substituted in new counsel, Defendants Law Office of Christine Brito and
Christine Brito, and then assisted Gomez, et al. in filing a complaint with the
California State Bar against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege the complaint was
frivolous and malicious, thereby constituting a misdemeanor. Plaintiffs also
maintain Gomez, et al. surreptitiously recorded conversations with Plaintiffs
though it’s not clear if and how said recordings were utilized. The Gomez case
appears to reference an immigration proceeding.
 
On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for 1) Defamation-Libel 2)
Defamation-Slander 3) False Light 4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress 5) Negligence 6) Intentional Interference with Advantageous
Relationships 7) Unfair Business Practices 8) Misrepresentation 9) Invasion of
Privacy in Violation of California Penal Code §632 10) Violation of California
Penal Code §632.7 11) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Defendants
answered the complaint on July 1, 2024. 
 
RULING: Granted in Part/Denied
in Part.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
Supplemental
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Defendants Law Office of Christine
Brito and Christine Brito moves to strike the entire
complaint on grounds that the identified allegations and claims arise from
privileged and protected conduct. More specifically, Defendants maintain the
filing of the California State Bar complaint on behalf of their clients with
the constituted an absolutely privileged act. Defendants challenge the ability
of Plaintiffs to state a claim. 
 
Plaintiff in
a 22 page opposition (exceeding the 15 page limit) counters that the motion is
untimely; the motion contains misrepresentations; the State Bar Complaint
itself contained lies, which exempts any protections under the litigation
privilege; and, Plaintiffs can establish the merits of all claims. 
 
Defendants
in reply reiterate the litigation privilege and immunity provisions. Defendants
challenge the accusation of “misrepresentation” and maintain the motion was
properly filed. Defendants deny any illegal conduct as precluding application
of the statute. Defendants conclude with the position of an inability to
establish any probability of prevailing on the underlying claims.
 
Timing
A special motion to strike must be filed within 60 days from
service of the complaint (with an additional five days under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013 subdivision (a) for service by mail), or at any later
time that the court deems proper. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).)
 
“Service of a summons by mail is authorized only when a copy
of the summons is mailed by first-class mail to the person to be served,
together with two copies of the notice and an acknowledgment. (§ 415.30, subds.
(a), (b).) Such service is complete when a written acknowledgment of receipt of
summons is returned to the sender. (§ 415.30, subd. (c).)” (Folke v. Pulliam
(2023) 96 Cal.App.5th Supp. 18, 28.) 
 
The complaint was filed May 15, 2024. Defendants executed
notices of acknowledgment and receipt May 24, 2024. The proofs of service were
filed on June 17, 2024. It remains unclear when the notices of acknowledgment
and receipt were actually returned. By law, service could not be completed any
earlier than May 24, 2024. The court finds no support for any purported
agreement from Defendants deeming service complete on the presumed mailing date
of the agreed upon notice of acknowledgment and receipt to counsel. Such an
agreement would require proof of a waiver of the clear statutory provisions for
establishing completed service, which appears nowhere in the introduction to
the motion, footnote 1, declaration of counsel in support, opposition, or
reply.  
 
July 23, 2024, was exactly 60 days from the date of the
signature. The special motion to strike was filed on Thursday July 26, 2024—63
days from the signature dates. Defense counsel represent an inability to file
the motion at an earlier date due to the court wide ransomware attack beginning
on Friday July 19, 2024. Counsel acknowledges notice of restoration of the
system allowing for reservations on July 24, 2024, but still no ability to file
documents. Counsel admittedly failed to follow-up on July 25, 2024, due to out
of area work, but filed the motion the following day. [Declaration of Vikram Sohal.]
The inability to file a motion due to lack of court access from an event
impacting all court technology will in no way lead to a lapsed deadline if the
time frame falls within the subject period. 
 
It remains unclear from either party, however, as to whether
filing capacity was reinstated on July 25, 2024. Even accepting the May 24,
2024, signature dates, and admission by counsel to a filing due date of July
23, 2024, thereby establishing a mailing date on the same date, the court still
lacks an ability to verify the exact allowable filing date following ransomware
attack service restoration. The court declines to deem the motion untimely on
this basis, and in its discretion finds the circumstances both known and known,
allows for consideration of the motion on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (f).)
 
Standard for
Special Motions to Strike
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides that “[a] cause of action against a
person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right
of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (b).) Such a motion involves a two-step
analysis, in which the court must first determine whether a movant "has
made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity . . ." (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th
683, 712, quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.) If the court so finds, it must then examine whether the
respondent has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Taus
v. Loftus, supra, 40 Cal.4th at p. 712.)
 
An act in
furtherance of a person's right to petition or free speech under the United
States Constitution or California Constitution includes: “(1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16.)
 
The
anti-SLAPP provisions apply where the allegations of the defendant’s protected
activity are the gravamen or principal thrust of the cause of action. (Peregrine
Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mulin Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 658, 672 [“‘where a cause of action alleges both protected and
unprotected activity, the cause of action will be subject to section 425.16
unless the protected conduct is “merely incidental” to the unprotected
conduct’”].) If the allegations of protected activity are only incidental to a
claim based essentially on non-protected activity, the mere mention of the
protected activity does not subject the claim to an anti-SLAPP motion. (Martinez
v. Metabolife International, Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188 [“We
conclude it is the principal thrust or gravamen of the plaintiff's cause of
action that determines
whether the
anti-SLAPP statute applies (Citation), and when the allegations referring to
arguably protected activity are only incidental to a cause of action based
essentially on nonprotected activity, collateral allusions to protected
activity should not subject the cause of action to the anti-SLAPP statute”].)
.) “[W]hether the defendant's act qualifies as one in furtherance of protected
speech or petitioning will depend on whether the defendant took the action for
speech-related reasons.” (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th
871, 889.) “[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity
took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes
of the anti-SLAPP statute. (Citation.) Moreover, that a cause of action
arguably may have been ‘triggered by protected activity does not entail it is
one arising from such. (Citation.) In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical
consideration is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant's
protected free speech or petitioning activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.) Courts must “draw a careful distinction between a
cause of action based squarely on a privileged communication … and one based
upon an underlying course of conduct evidenced by the communication.” (White
v. Western Title Ins. Co. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 870, 888.)
 
In
determining the application of the special motion to strike statute, the court
focuses “not on the label of the cause of action,” but on the underlying
“activities” alleged in the challenged pleading. (1100 Park Lane Assocs. v.
Feldman (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1484.) “If the court determines that
relief is sought based on allegations arising from activity protected by the
statute, the second step is reached.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 396.) “[A] plaintiff cannot frustrate the purposes of the SLAPP statute
through a pleading tactic of combining allegations of protected and
nonprotected activity under the label of one ‘cause of action.’” (Fox
Searchlight Pictures, Inc v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 308.) “The
anti-SLAPP statute's definitional focus is not the form of the plaintiff's
cause of action but, rather, the defendant's activity that gives rise to his or
her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech
or petitioning.” (Navellier v. Sletten, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
92.)
 
“The
anti-SLAPP statute does not apply where protected activity is only collateral
or incidental to the purpose of the transaction or occurrence underlying the
complaint.” (California Back Specialists Medical Group v. Rand (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1032, 1037.) “[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after
protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity
for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. (Citation.) Moreover, that a cause
of action arguably may have been ‘triggered by protected activity does not
entail it is one arising from such. (Citation.) In the anti-SLAPP context, the
critical consideration is whether the cause of action is based on the
defendant's protected free speech or petitioning activity.” (Navellier v.
Sletten, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 89.)
 
Declaration
and Additional Evidence
In addition
to citation to the complaint, Defendants also submits a declaration and request
for judicial notice in support, which the court can rely upon in determining
whether moving party meets the threshold for shifting the burden in a special
motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); Stewart v.
Rolling Stone LLC (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 664, 679 [The court interprets the
activities of the parties through the allegations in order to determine free
speech activity but need not adhere to the strict form of the operative
pleading in order to make such determinations].) 
 
Statutory
Application
The Court may look to the litigation privilege as an aid in
determining the first step of the anti-SLAPP inquiry. (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 322-323.) Attorney made
statements on behalf of a client in connection with a judicial proceeding has
standing to bring a SLAPP motion. (Jespersen
v. Zubiate-Beauchamp (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 624, 629; Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266 [“[A]
statement is ‘in connection with’ litigation under section 425.16, subdivision
(e)(2) if it relates to the substantive issues in the litigation and is
directed to persons having some interest in the litigation”].)
 
“[I]n ruling
on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063; see Simmons v. Bauer Media
Group USA, LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1037, 1046-1047.) “[W]e do not
evaluate the first prong of the anti-SLAPP test solely through the lens of a
plaintiff's cause of action. Defendants' acts on which the counts alleged in
the complaint are based ...” (Stewart v. Rolling Stone LLC, supra,
181 Cal.App.4th at p. 679.) The court therefore both considers the actual pled
causes of action, the declarations, and requests for judicial notice, for
purposes of determining whether Defendants’ conduct of amounts to a protected
activity within the framework of the statute. 
 
“[S]ection
425.16 cannot be invoked by a defendant whose assertedly protected activity is
illegal as a matter of law and, for that reason, not protected by
constitutional guarantees of free speech and petition. A contrary rule would be
inconsistent with the purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute as revealed by its
language.” (Flatley v. Mauro, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 317; Collier
v. Harris (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 41, 54 [acts a plaintiff alleges are
unlawful or illegal are nonetheless protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute if the acts assist or facilitate the defendant's free speech rights [¶
][unless] the defendant concedes or the evidence conclusively establishes the
defendant's conduct is illegal as a matter of law”]; Novartis Vaccines &
Diagnostics, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1284, 1296.)
 
At least a portion of the complaint and the
subject matter of the instant motion arises from the complaint with the State
Bar of California. Plaintiff in opposition cites to Business and Professions
code section 6128, and the complaint references Business and Professions code
section 6043.5. The complaint itself alleges the State Bar complaint as
“frivolous,” with additional claims of “false and/or misleading” statements
made to the immigration court, and a vague allegation of “false and defamatory”
statements of fact and opinion to the State Bar. The outright “lies” are
asserted in the opposition, which includes numerous exhibits not in any way
incorporated into the operative complaint. Plaintiff additionally maintains
improper client relation interference based on the “aiding and abetting” of
defendants to defame Plaintiffs. The opposition also contends “coercion” of the
client. The opposition otherwise provides no address of the illegal recording
claims, though the court will address the subject causes of action below.
 
“Every attorney is guilty of a misdemeanor who
either: (a) Is guilty of any deceit or collusion, or consents to any deceit or
collusion, with intent to deceive the court or any party.” (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 6128.) “(a) Every person who reports to the State Bar or causes a
complaint to be filed with the State Bar that an attorney has engaged in
professional misconduct, knowing the report or complaint to be false and
malicious, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (b) The State Bar may, in its
discretion, notify the appropriate district attorney or city attorney that a
person has filed what the State Bar believes to be a false and malicious report
or complaint against an attorney and recommend prosecution of the person under
subdivision (a).” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6043.5.)
 
“An absolute
privilege exists to protect citizens from the threat of litigation for
communications to government agencies whose function it is to investigate and
remedy wrongdoing. (Citation.) The privilege is based on ‘[t]he importance of
providing to citizens free and open access to governmental agencies for the
reporting of suspected illegal activity.’ (Citation.)” (Wise v. Thrifty Payless,
Inc. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1303.) “One policy underlying
the absolute privilege for statements made in governmental investigations and
reports of misconduct ‘is to assure utmost freedom of communication between
citizens and public authorities whose responsibility is to investigate and remedy
wrongdoing.’ (Citations.) … [¶] … As other courts have stated, ‘there
must be an open channel of communication by which citizens can call [the
investigator's] attention to suspected wrongdoing.’” (Braun v. Bureau of State Audits (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1382, 1390–1391; Kibler v. Northern Inyo County Local Hospital Dist. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 192, 203; Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 328, 335; ComputerXpress, Inc. v. Jackson (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 993, 1009.) “To achieve this end, the absolute privilege is
interpreted broadly to apply “to any communication, not just a
publication, having ‘some relation’ to a judicial [or quasi-judicial]
proceeding,” irrespective of the communication's maliciousness or
untruthfulness.” (People ex rel. Gallegos v. Pacific Lumber Co. (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 950, 958.) 
 
“[W]here a defendant brings a motion to strike
under section 425.16 based on a claim that the plaintiff's action arises from
activity by the defendant in furtherance of the defendant's exercise of
protected speech or petition rights, but either the defendant concedes, or the
evidence conclusively establishes, that the assertedly protected speech or
petition activity was illegal as a matter of law, the defendant is precluded
from using the anti-SLAPP statute to strike the plaintiff's action. In reaching
this conclusion, we emphasize that the question of whether the defendant's
underlying conduct was illegal as a matter of law is preliminary, and unrelated
to the second prong question of whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a
probability of prevailing, and the showing required to establish conduct
illegal as a matter of law—either through defendant's concession or by
uncontroverted and conclusive evidence—is not the same showing as the
plaintiff's second prong showing of probability of prevailing.  (Flatley v. Mauro, supra, 39
Cal.4th at p. 320.)
 
The illegal activity argument is strictly limited
to the actual supported section(s) in the Business and Professions Code. Defendants
in no way concede to any illegal activity through the advising of the client
and assistance with the presentation of the complaint to the State Bar of
California. The court finds nothing in the complaint, the declaration of
Michael Quiroga, or the 50 pages of exhibits supporting any actual criminal
conduct allowing a finding of exclusion of the litigation privilege.
 
The complaint and declaration allege and describe certain
practice norms for the immigration bar, but violations of practice norms in no
way equate to an illegal activity. Again, the required standard when examining
the first part of the test requires a “preliminary” finding of illegal conduct,
without getting into the evidentiary standards governing the second prong of
the test. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); Taus v. Loftus, supra, 40 Cal.4th at p. 729; Equilon Enterprises LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
53, 67; Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444; Tuchscher Development Enterprises, Inc. v. San Diego Unified Port Dist.
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1219, 1236-38; Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821 Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
539, 548; see also Wilson
v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [“In deciding the question of
potential merit, the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary
submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2));
though the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative
probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a
matter of law, the defendant's evidence supporting the motion defeats the
plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim”].)   
 
Reliance on “frivolous” opinionated series of
statements to the State Bar, which eventually led to the State Bar NOT
Defendants prosecuting an action against Plaintiffs in no way supports a
finding of an intention to commit illegal conduct through submission of false
statements. The State Bar presumably investigated the claim and determined the
veracity of the statements sufficient enough to warrant a complaint. Without
specific and categorical proof of actual illegal activity, the court finds no
basis for an exception to application of the statute on the claims arising from
the filing of the action with the State Bar of California, which led to the
prosecution by the State Bar. [Req. Jud. Not. Ex. 14.] (Flickinger v.
Finwall (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 822, 836.) 
 
Further, any alleged communications with the
client while still represented by Plaintiff in no way supports a finding of
illegal activity as well. [See Declaration of Christine Brito.] The opposition
lacks any legal citation in support of this position, and the court declines to
find criminal conduct as a result of the client seeking new counsel. The
suggestion of “extortion” by the client in requesting financial assistance
lacks any apparent application to the claim against Defendants, even if
Plaintiffs offered a legally and supported argument for this exact position.
The court declines to consider speculative assertions. Finally, while not part
of the illegal conduct consideration, the court also finds the claims regarding
false statements to the immigration court categorically within the absolute
privilege umbrella as well.
 
The court
therefore concludes Defendants shift the burden on the claims involving the
report to the state bar, which led to the prosecution of an action by the State
Bar. The court also finds any conduct in the representation of the client,
including statements to any court are also privileged.
 
Nevertheless,
lacking from the motion is any address of the two individual causes of action
which in no way apparently rely on the state bar, new counsel representation,
and/or extortion claims—specifically the ninth and tenth causes of action for
unlawful recording and eavesdropping claims. Curiously, the complaint itself only
alleges the client was entirely responsible for any and all recording, and
provides no factual allegations as to Defendants.
 
Neither party actually addresses the sections: 
 
(a) A person
who, intentionally and without the consent of all parties to a confidential
communication, uses an electronic amplifying or recording device to eavesdrop
upon or record the confidential communication, whether the communication is
carried on among the parties in the presence of one another or by means of a
telegraph, telephone, or other device, except a radio, shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) per violation, or
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or in the state prison,
or by both that fine and imprisonment. If the person has previously been
convicted of a violation of this section or Section 631, 632.5, 632.6, 632.7,
or 636, the person shall be punished by a fine not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) per violation, by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year, or in the state prison, or by both that fine and imprisonment.
(b) For the
purposes of this section, “person” means an individual, business association,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other legal entity, and
an individual acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any government or
subdivision thereof, whether federal, state, or local, but excludes an
individual known by all parties to a confidential communication to be
overhearing or recording the communication.
(c) For the
purposes of this section, “confidential communication” means any communication
carried on in circumstances as may reasonably indicate that any party to the
communication desires it to be confined to the parties thereto, but excludes a
communication made in a public gathering or in any legislative, judicial,
executive, or administrative proceeding open to the public, or in any other
circumstance in which the parties to the communication may reasonably expect
that the communication may be overheard or recorded.
 
(Pen. Code,
§ 632.)
 
Every person
not a party to a telegraphic or telephonic communication who willfully
discloses the contents of a telegraphic or telephonic message, or any part
thereof, addressed to another person, without the permission of that person,
unless directed so to do by the lawful order of a court, is punishable by
imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or in a county jail
not exceeding one year, or by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by both
that fine
and imprisonment.
 
(Pen. Code,
§ 637.)
 
(a) Any
person who has been injured by a violation of this chapter may bring an action
against the person who committed the violation for the greater of the following
amounts:
(1) Five
thousand dollars ($5,000) per violation.
(2) Three
times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff.
(b) Any
person may, in accordance with Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 525) of Title
7 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, bring an action to enjoin and
restrain any violation of this chapter, and may in the same action seek damages
as provided by subdivision (a).
(c) It is
not a necessary prerequisite to an action pursuant to this section that the
plaintiff has suffered, or be threatened with, actual damages.
(d) This
section shall not be construed to affect Title 4 (commencing with Section
3425.1) of Part 1 of Division 4 of the Civil Code.
 
Pen. Code, §
637.2
 
The court finds no nexus between the alleged recording and
any presentation of said material to the state bar or immigration judge. The
court therefore only finds the motion applicable to all but the ninth and tenth
causes of action. 
 
Probability of Success on the Merits
The burden now shifts to plaintiffs to demonstrate a
“probability” of success on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b); Equilon Enterprises LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.). “[A] plaintiff must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited.” (Matson v.
Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) “[A]n action may not be dismissed under this statute if the
plaintiff has presented admissible evidence that, if believed by the trier of
fact, would support a cause of action against the defendant.” (Taus v.
Loftus, supra, 40 Cal.4th
at p. 729.) “In deciding the question of potential merit, the trial
court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff
and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not weigh
the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it
should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.” (Wilson
v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)   
 
The evidentiary showing by the plaintiff must be made by
competent and admissible evidence. (Morrow
v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444; Tuchscher Development Enterprises, Inc. v.
San Diego Unified Port Dist. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1219, 1236-38.) A
verified complaint does not constitute sufficient evidence for establishing a
probability of success on the merits. (Comstock
v. Aber, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th
at p. 950; Thayer v. Kabateck Brown
Kellner LLP (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 141, 160.)
 
“The litigation privilege in section 47 applies to ‘any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the
action. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Rohde
v. Wolf (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 28, 37.) The litigation privilege applies to
any and all causes of action except malicious prosecution. (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank FSB (2004)
32 Cal.4th 350, 375.) “A plaintiff cannot establish a probability of
prevailing if the litigation privilege precludes the defendant's liability on
the claim.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v.
Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 888.) Whether
the privilege applies is “a factual question that will require evaluation of
plaintiffs’ proffered evidence to determine whether they have made a prima
facie showing of their ability to negate these factors.” (Birkner v. Lam, supra,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 286.)
 
Again, Defendants rely on the litigation privilege as a
defense to all claims arising from the State Bar complaint. Defendants also
cite to Business and Professions Code section 6094, as a form of immunity from
any claims, due to communications relating to attorney competence. Defendants
deny any submission of false or frivolous evidence. Plaintiffs again fall back
on represented practice standards and the nebulously articulated “extortion”
claim. Plaintiffs rely on a fundamental assumption that an attorney is barred
from communicating (e.g. poaching a current client), but such an argument lacks
any actual acknowledgment of the rights of the client to communication with
whomever they wish. Thus, even if said bilateral communications between the
client and Defendants occurred during the time of representation by Plaintiffs,
the court finds no basis of support for wrongful conduct establishing an
exemption.
 
“Communications to the State Bar relating to lawyer
misconduct or disability or competence, or any communication related to an
investigation or proceeding and testimony given in the proceeding are
privileged, and no lawsuit predicated thereon may be instituted against any
person.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6094, subd. (a).) The court finds moving
parties are immune under the litigation privilege and immunity provisions for
any and all claims arising from communications with the clients, and the State
Bar complaint. The law and public policy clearly and unequivocally support the
litigation privilege in cases of client representation and State Bar claims. 
 
The court therefore finds all conduct absolutely privileged
and immune. The motion is therefore GRANTED as to the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and eleventh causes of action. The
motion is DENIED as to the ninth and tenth causes of action arising from the
purported eavesdropping claims by the clients not counsel.
 
Defendants to answer the ninth and tenth causes of
action within 10 days. Defendants waived any potential demurrer to the
remaining causes of action due to the failure to timely file the demurrer, even
if it meant reserving the date until after the hearing on the subject motion. “A
motion to strike under section 425.16 is not a substitute for a motion for a
demurrer or summary judgment.” (Wilbanks
v. Wolk (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 883, 905 accord
Lam v. Ngo
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 832, 851 (footnote 12).) 
 
Case Management Conference set for November 4, 2024.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 