 Case Number:  23STCV04690    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-19-24 c/f 8-22-24
Case
#23STCV04690
Trial
Date: 3-24-25
 
ADMISSIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Solaray, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Bewind Company Limited
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motions
to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Bewind Company Limited alleges a $1,067,854.66 balance due against
predecessor  Mobileessentials LLC, and
seeks to collect on said balance against Defendant Solaray, LLC, following
Defendant’s acquisition of Mobileessentials LLC with all attendant liabilities.

 
On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for (1) Breach Of Contract (2)
Common Counts (3) Open Book Account (4) Account Stated (5) Unjust Enrichment. Defendant
answered on April 19, 2023.
 
RULING: Denied/Moot
Defendant,
Solaray, LLC moves to deem Requests for Admissions Admitted based on the
failure to serve a verification with the objections. Plaintiff in opposition
represents service of a verification on May 20, 2024, at 5:10 p.m., which
constituted denials for all items. Plaintiff additionally maintains any motion
is untimely, lacks a separate statement, and failed to meet and confer. 
 
The
motion was only reserved and identified as a motion to deem responses to
admissions admitted. The court will not consider any motion to compel further
responses, due to the improper reservation and notice of such a motion. 
 
The motion to deem
admissions admitted relies on the lack of verification. Unverified responses
constitute no response. (Appleton v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 635-636.) Plaintiff
was not required to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to deem admissions
admitted. While pure objections need not contain a verification, the responses
provided in the motion in fact also contain “denied” for each response without
verification according to moving party. [Declaration of Lyric Enav.] (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.240, subd. (a).) 
 
The first opposition incorporates
a copy of the response with a purported attached verification. [Declaration of
William Niu, Ex. C.] Notwithstanding, six (6) days later, Plaintiff filed a
“notice of nunc pro tunc to opposition” whereby Plaintiff now admits that
verified responses were in fact NOT served on May 20, 2024, and the
verification was only served on April 15, 2024. [Nunc Pro Declaration of
William Niu, Ex. C.]
 
Then, Defendant in oral
argument at the time of the August 22, 2024, hearing, maintains said
verification was improper as it constituted a typewritten name rather than
actual signature. (Defendant was presumably precluded from raising the argument
in written reply, due to the filing of the “nunc pro tunc” on the same date as
the reply due date.) 
 
The court took the
matter under submission. The court reviewed the standard cited by Defendant at
the time of the hearing.
 
“(b) Documents signed
under penalty of perjury
When a document to be
filed electronically provides for a signature under penalty of perjury of any
person, the document is deemed to have been signed by that person if filed
electronically provided that either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1)  The declarant
has signed the document using an electronic signature and declares under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the
information submitted is true and correct. If the declarant is not the
electronic filer, the electronic signature must be unique to the declarant,
capable of verification, under the sole control of the declarant, and linked to
data in such a manner that if the data are changed, the electronic signature is
invalidated; or
(2)  The declarant,
before filing, has physically signed a printed form of the document. By
electronically filing the document, the electronic filer certifies that the
original, signed document is available for inspection and copying at the
request of the court or any other party. In the event this second method of
submitting documents electronically under penalty of perjury is used, the
following conditions apply:
(A)  At any time
after the electronic version of the document is filed, any party may serve a
demand for production of the original signed document. The demand must be
served on all other parties but need not be filed with the court.
(B)  Within five
days of service of the demand under (A), the party or other person on whom the
demand is made must make the original signed document available for inspection
and copying by all other parties.
(C)  At any time
after the electronic version of the document is filed, the court may order the
filing party or other person to produce the original signed document in court
for inspection and copying by the court. The order must specify the date, time,
and place for the production and must be served on all parties.”
 
(Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.257(b).)
 
As presented in the
voluntarily filed “nunc pro tunc” notice, the court was unable determine
compliance with any potential electronic signature requirement. Plaintiff
presented no applicable language regarding an offer for proof of the original
signed document available for review at any relevant time. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.257(b)(2).) Still, while the verification lacked said statement,
under the plain language of the rule, no statement of availability appears
required on the verification itself, even if perhaps more expedient. The court
therefore concluded a demand was required by Defendant in case of any use of
the electronic signature, and raised doubt as to the compliance. Defendant
presented no proof of such a demand for review, as required under rule Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.257(b)(2)(A), thereby triggering a showing of compliance
within five (5) days under rule Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.257(b)(2)(B). The
court therefore continued the hearing in order to determine compliance with the
electronic signature requirement pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.257(b)(2)(C) to be considered on concurrently with the next brought motion to
compel further responses brought by Defendant. 
 
The court specifically
instructed counsel that the hearing will ONLY consider the existence of a
properly executed verification under the electronic signature requirements, be
it a handwritten signature or proof of electronic signature. The court instructed
Plaintiff to review the requirements for electronic signature requirements
before submitting anything other than a declaration admitting to the lack of a
compliant verification or a properly electronically executed verification. The
court also informed counsel that no further argument would be considered, and
any decision to grant or deny the motion would be made on both verification of
the signature and previously submitted materials. Plaintiff was given a date of
September 3, 2024—nine (9) court days before the hearing—to either submit proof
of compliance or lack of any valid signature. Any late filed documents may be
disregarded and considered an admission to the lack of an actual signature by
the party. The court also deferred consideration of any potential award of
sanctions. 
 
On September 3,
Plaintiff submitted a declaration of William Niu. While the declaration
indicates any lack of demand from Defendant for proof of compliance with Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.257(b)(2)(A), Plaintiff still presents proof of what
appears to be a signature, not a typewritten name, from Hui Lin. [Declaration
of William Niu, Ex. D.] Counsel also indicates the signature is available for
inspection and copying. The court finds both the signature and representation
of the offer to present a copy upon inspection in Shenzhen, China, sufficient. 
 
The court therefore
finds a valid and served verification prior to the time of the hearing. The
motion to deem requests for admissions is therefore MOOT and DENIED on this
basis.
“As one court put it: ‘If the party
manages to serve its responses before the hearing, the court has no discretion
but to deny the motion. But woe betide the party who fails to serve responses
before the hearing.’” (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.)
 
Even if the court
considered the improperly reserved and noticed motion, the motion lacks
sufficient support. While the motion was filed 49 days after service of the
objections by mail, and therefore timely, and includes a separate statement,
the court finds no meet and confer effort supporting such a motion on the
deficiency of the denials. Furthermore, Defendant cannot both challenge the
lack of verifications, and then proceed with a motion to compel further
responses which assumes service of verified responses. The responses are either
verified and the motion is improper, or the responses were unverified, and the
motion was rendered moot on this basis. 
 
The motion is therefore
denied either way should moving party persist with the court considering the
improperly reserved and identified motion.
 
Defendant’s
requests sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 2033.290, subdivision (d).
Since the motion is denied, and the court declines to consider the motion to
compel further responses, as improperly noticed, unreserved, and unsupported,
the court declines to impose sanctions under the requested section. The court
cannot impose sanctions in favor of responding party under Code of Civil Procedure
2033.280.
 
Defendant
to give notice.
 