 Case Number:  22STCV21983    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Carolyn Parker,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV21983




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Country Villa Terrace Nursing Center,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendants West Pico Terrace
Healthcare & Wellness Centre, LP, Pacific Healthcare Holdings, Inc.,
Rockport Administrative Services, LLC and Shlomo Rechnitz
Responding Party: Plaintiff Carolyn Parker
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS DENIED. 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 30, 2023, decedent Carolyn
Parker, through her successor-in-interest to Darnley Scantlebury, filed the
operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of
action for (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence; (3) violation of Health &
Safety Code § 1430(B); (4) willful misconduct; and (5) wrongful death. 
 
Plaintiffs allege decedent was a
resident at Defendants’ skilled nursing facility from May 14, 2022 to May 17,
2022 following a stroke. Plaintiffs allege Defendants were repeatedly informed
that decedent was at risk for falling from her bed, but Defendants refused to
provide bed railings or a bed alarm and instead switched her to an unsafe
mattress. Decedent fell out of bed in the middle of the night and was not
helped for at least an hour after the fall. Plaintiffs allege decedent became
paralyzed due to the fall. Thereafter, decedent was transferred to the hospital
where she suffered from infected pressure ulcers and various other
complications resulting in her death on January 12, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 598 allows a party to seek an order
before trial ‘that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,’ where ‘the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby ….’” (Estate of Young (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 62, 90.)
 
Defendants move for an order
bifurcating trial between the underlying tort claims and the joint venture and
alter ego theories of liability. Defendants assert that the Court should
determine whether the Defendants are in a joint venture or are alter egos of
each other after the jury determines the tort claims. In opposition, Plaintiff
acknowledges that alter ego liability is determined by the Court but disputes
that joint venture liability is determined by the Court. Plaintiff presents
jury instructions relating to the issue of joint venture liability. Plaintiff
asserts that there should be no bifurcation because the Court and the jury may
hear all evidence at the same time and issue separate decisions on the factual
and equitable claims. 
 
The Court finds bifurcation
unnecessary. Plaintiff is entitled to a jury trial on the joint venture theory
of liability. This evidence will significantly overlap with evidence of alter
ego, limiting any benefits of bifurcation.
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.


 