  Case Number:  21STCP02223    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Hi Point Neighbors’ Association,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCP02223




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
Respondents.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Attorney’s Fees
Moving Party: Petitioner Hi Point Neighbors’
Association
Responding Party: Respondent/Real Party in Interest Hi
Point M, LLC
 
T/R:      PETITIONER’S
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS CONTINUED TO JANUARY 16, 2025 AT 9:00AM.
THE PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO FILE AND SERVE SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFING, NOT TO
EXCEED 7 PAGES, NO LATER THAN JANUARY 10, 2024.
PETITIONER TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
 
Under CCP § 1021.5, attorneys’ fees may
be awarded (1) “to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in
any action which” (2) “has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest if” (3) “a significant benefit, whether pecuniary
or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons,” (4) “the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement . . .
are such as to make the award appropriate, and” (5) “such fees should not in
the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.” (CCP § 1021.5.) 
 
Petitioner moves for an award of
attorney fees per CCP § 1021.5. Petitioner argues that it is the prevailing
party because the action resulted in invalidation of the project approval and
the abandonment of the project entitlement. The Court ordered the City to “set
aside its Tower 3 Transit Oriented Communities (“TOC”) approval in City of Los
Angeles Planning Department Case No. DRI-2020–2067-TOC.” Petitioner asserts it
achieved its objective of upholding the City’s zoning regulations and
invalidating the Tier 3 determination and incentives granted to Respondent/Real
Party. Respondent abandoned the project entitlement in September 2024.
 
Petitioner argues that it is entitled
to fees under section 1021.5 because the petition has enforced the important
public rights, mainly zoning enforcement, and has resulted in significant
benefit to the public by requiring the City to strictly follow zoning
regulations and Measure JJJ, which authorized the City’s Transit Oriented
Communities Affordable Housing Incentive Program. Petitioner represents that the
action was prosecuted at great financial risk to Petitioner and Petitioners’
counsel. Additionally, there is no monetary recovery to cover attorney’s fees.
 
In opposition, Respondent asserts fees
should not be awarded under the Housing Accountability Act. The Court has found
two versions of Gov. Code § 65589.5(p)(1). One provides,
 
Upon any motion for an award of attorney's fees pursuant to Section
1021.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in a case challenging a local agency's
approval of a housing development project, a court, in weighing whether a
significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class
of persons and whether the necessity of private enforcement makes the award
appropriate, shall give due weight to the degree to which the local agency's
approval furthers policies of this section, including, but not limited to,
subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), the suitability of the site for a housing
development, and the reasonableness of the decision of the local agency. It is
the intent of the Legislature that attorney's fees and costs shall rarely, if
ever, be awarded if a local agency, acting in good faith, approved a housing
development project that satisfies conditions established in paragraph (1),
(2), or (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.1 or paragraph (1), (2), or
(3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.2.
 
Respondent quotes a different version
of this statute, which may have become effective on January 1, 2024. Respondent
quotes the last sentence of the above paragraph as, “It is the intent of the Legislature that attorney’s fees and costs shall
rarely, if ever, be awarded if a local agency, acting in good faith, approved
a housing development project that satisfies conditions established in
subclauses (I), (II), and (III) of clause (i) of subparagraph (D) of paragraph
(6) of subdivision (h) or clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (E) of
paragraph (6) of subdivision (h).”
 
The Court needs additional briefing on which version of Gov. Code § 65589.5(p)(1) applies here.
The Court also needs the parties to explain more clearly how the project does
or does not fit the seemingly impenetrable (to the Court, at least) web of subdivisions,
paragraphs, subparagraphs, clauses, and subclauses in the applicable version. The
motion is CONTINUED. The parties are ordered to meet and confer on these issues
and advise the Court if they reach agreement on these questions.


 