 Case Number:  21STCV17381    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  37 Shana Anglin, et al. v. Patrice Loraine Burton
(21STCV17381)                              Hearing Date: 5/21/2024
(Tentative) Rulings
on Motions in Limine
Plaintiff’s MILS:
1.       
To preclude prior bad acts by Plaintiffs Shana
Anglin and Christopher Ebersole.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion in part
and DENIES it in part.  The motion is
denied regarding Ebersole’s felony convictions for: 1) 2/25/2013 conviction for
possession of a controlled substance; 2) 4/24/14 conviction for possession of a
controlled substance; 3) 4/28/14 conviction for bringing contraband into a
jail. (Evid. Code § 788).  
 
The motion is granted with respect to plaintiffs’
prior arrests, non-felony convictions, and uncharged offenses.
               
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice of Ebersole’s three convictions.  
 
Defendant’s MILs:
1.       
To preclude Evidence of other lawsuits and
alleged misconduct by Deputy Hurtado.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s MIL. No. 1.  Defendant is asking the court to rule in a
vacuum as Defendant did not provide “specific identification of the matter
alleged to be inadmissible and prejudicial” in a declaration as required by
LASC Rule 3.57(a)(1).  
 
However, Plaintiff identifies the allegations
in Martinez v. County, 20CV01063 (C.D.Cal.) 
The court would exclude evidence of that lawsuit on the grounds of Evid.
Code §§ 350 (not relevant for purposes of showing habit or custom); 352
(time-consuming and unduly prejudicial); 786 (impermissible character
evidence); and 1200 (hearsay).  
 
2.       
To preclude Evidence of Plaintiff’s Miscarriage.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s MIL No. 2 with
a limiting Instruction.  Evidence of
Plaintiff Anglin’s miscarriage is admissible only to show her state of mind –
that she did not leave her residence voluntarily but just wanted to go to her room
and rest.  Jury may not consider this
evidence with respect to any causal connection between the deputies’ response
to Plaintiff’s 911 call on July 17 or 18 and the miscarriage July 17.  
 
3.       
To exclude opinions of Plaintiff’s expert Clark
(on police procedures).
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s MIL No. 3 without
prejudice as the motion is premature.  The
Court may consider a 402 hearing.
 
The Court notes that certain of Clark’s opinions
listed in Defendant’s motion in limine are not “related to a subject that is
sufficiently beyond common experience.”  (Evid.
Code § 801(a).)  In other words, certain
of Clark’s opinions would not aid the trier of fact; his opinions regarding
Defendant Hurtado’s judgment are exclusively within the province of the
jury.  Clark’s opinion that Hurtado violated
Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights is inadmissible as a conclusion of law.  Clark’s opinion as to Ms. Burton is
irrelevant.  Clark’s opinions are also
overbroad as they appear to be directed at all deputies sued in this
litigation, not just Deputy Hurtado, the remaining defendant.  
 
4.       
To exclude testimony and opinions of Plaintiff’s
expert Sussman, CPA.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s MIL No. 5,
finding that Plaintiff’s expert designation regarding Mr. Sussman is sufficiently
detailed to satisfy the requirements of CCP § 2034.260(c)(2).  
 
5.       
To preclude Evidence of Defendant’s financial
information until a jury determines the elements for punitive damages have been
met.  
  
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s MIL No. 6 and
will exclude evidence of Defendant’s financial information until the jury
returns a verdict that includes punitive damages.    
 