  Case Number:  21STCV03357    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to special interrogatories is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses without objection to Defendant’s
request for special interrogatories within 30 days. Defendant’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.
Legal Standard
Compel Interrogatories
If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that
a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the
time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  (Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)
Sanctions
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to compel
responses to interrogatories against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c).) 
 
Under CCP section 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery
process.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) 
 
Discussion
On July 1, 2022, Defendant
propounded Special Interrogatories, Set One on plaintiff. (Powell Decl., ¶ 4;
Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s responses to defendant’s interrogatories were due no later
than August 2, 2022. Responses were never received. Thereafter, on December 8,
2022, counsel for defendant wrote a letter to counsel for plaintiff indicating
that responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One were due on August 2, 2022
and that therefore objections had been waived. (Id., ¶ 5; Exh. B.) Multiple
extensions to respond were provided. As of the date of the filing of this
Motion, defendant has still not received any discovery responses from
plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
As Defendant properly served discovery
requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses, the Court finds Defendant is
entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses
without objections to the discovery request served on Plaintiff. 
Therefore, the motion is granted.
As for sanctions, Defendant has not
identified who it seeks sanctions against in the notice of motion. (CCP section
2023.040.) Thus, sanctions cannot be awarded.
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to special interrogatories is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses without objection to Defendant’s
request for special interrogatories within 30 days. Defendant’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 