 Case Number:  22STCV01204    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  73 11/20/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JAMES CHEUNG v. CHARLES CHEUNG, et
al. (22STCV01204)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  David King (King
Cheng Miller & Jin, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Kousha
Berokim (Berokim Law)
 
(1)  
PLAINTIFF’S motion for AN ORDER (1) GRANTING ISSUE AND/OR
EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG; OR (2) IN THE ALTERNATIVE COMPELLING
CHARLES CHEUNG TO COMPLY WITH THIS COURTS’S ORDER OF MARCH 26, 2024, WITH RESPECT
TO JAMES’ DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; AND (3) MONETARY
SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG AND HIS ATTORNEY (filed on 10/11/24)
(2)  
PLAINTIFF’S motion for AN ORDER (1) GRANTING ISSUE AND/OR
EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PINNACLELGS, INC.; OR (2) IN THE ALTERNATIVE COMPELLING
PINNACLELGS, INC. TO COMPLY WITH THIS COURTS’S ORDER OF MARCH 26, 2024, WITH
RESPECT TO JAMES’ DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; AND (3) MONETARY
SANCTIONS AGAINST PINNACLELGS, INC.AND ITS ATTORNEY (filed on 10/11/24)
(3)  
PLAINTIFF’S motion for AN ORDER (1) GRANTING ISSUE AND/OR
EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG REGARDING RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; OR (2) IN THE ALTERNATIVE COMPELLING CHARLES CHEUNG TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSES IN COMPLIANCE WITH THIS COURTS’S ORDER OF MARCH 26,
2024; AND (3) MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG AND HIS ATTORNEY (filed on 10/14/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motions for Sanctions against
Defendants Charles Cheung and PinnacleLGS, Inc. are GRANTED and DENIED in part
as follows: 
(1) DENIED as
to issue and evidentiary sanctions against Defendants; 
(2)
GRANTED as to an order compelling Defendants to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production,
Set One, Request Nos. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 57, and 61; 
(3)
DENIED as to an order compelling Defendant Charles Cheung to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories,
Set One; and
(4)
GRANTED as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,500 against
Defendants Charles
Cheung, Pinnacle LGS and their counsel, jointly and severally.
 
Defendants Charles
Cheung and Pinnacle LGS are ordered to pay the additional sanctions to Plaintiff,
by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $4,500, within thirty (30)
days. Defendants
are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions awards, in the
amount of $5,000,
payable within thirty (30) days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 12,
2022, Plaintiff James Cheung (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Charles Cheung, Wenjun Long and PinnacleLGS, Inc. Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts
causes of action for: (1) Dissolution of Partnership; (2) Accounting; (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Fraud; and (5) Breach of Contract.  
 
The Complaint alleges that this case is “about
the Dissolution
of a Fifty/Fifty (50/50) Partnership and about an Accounting arising out of the
Dissolution of that Partnership. The Partnership started off as a series of
Joint Ventures that involved acquiring improved real properties that have the
land value potential and that are to be demolished and developed into new
multi-family projects. Plaintiff was to fund the down payment, and Defendant Charles
Cheung was to fund some down payment and the monthly mortgages of the Purchase
Money Loans.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)
 
On March 16,
2022, a Cross-Complaint was filed by Pinnacle Wilton LLC, Pinnacle Normandie
LLC, Pinnacle LGS, Inc., Charles Cheung and Wejun Long against Cross-Defendants
BB Wells Investments, Inc. and James Cheung. The Cross-Complaint asserts causes
of action for: (1) Usury and (2) Quiet Title.
 
On October 11,
2024 and October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed three Motions for Sanctions against
Defendants Charles Cheung and PinnacleLGS, Inc. (“Defendants”) seeking:
·      
An order granting issue sanctions against Charles and PinnacleLGS,
precluding them from presenting any evidence in opposition to the claims being
asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint or any evidence in support of their
Cross-Complaint, and designating the following facts as established: 
o    James and Charles were engaged in a joint
venture. 
o   That the loan
made by James Cheung alleged in Cross-Complainants’ CrossComplaint was made in
the course of and in furtherance of a partnership and joint venture between
James Cheung and Charles Cheung, and is not usurious, and/or 
o   Charles
breached his fiduciary duties to James in connection with their joint venture.
·      
In the alternative, an order granting evidentiary sanctions
against Charles and PinnacleLGS, precluding them from (a) introducing at the
time of trial any evidence in support of their affirmative defenses to
Plaintiff’s Complaint; (b) introducing any evidence to rebut the claims being
asserted against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint; or (c) introducing any evidence
in support of their Cross-Complaint. 
·      
In the alternative, an order compelling
further responses to Demand for Production, Set One, Request Nos. 3, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 57, and 61 as to Defendants Charles and PinnacleLGS; and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 9 and 10 as to Defendant Charles
·      
Awarding Plaintiff monetary sanctions against Charles,
PinnacleLGS, and their attorney, Kousha Berokim, jointly and severally, for
their misuse of the discovery process, as well as enforcing the prior sanctions
award of $5,000.
·      
Procedural background
o   On March 26,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s six discovery motions against Charles and
PinnacleLGS, requiring that: 
§  (a) Charles
serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, and (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, within thirty days, and pay
$500.00 in monetary sanctions. Charles and his attorney have ignored the
Court’s order. 
§  (b)
PinnacleLGS serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production
of Documents, Set One, (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, (iii) Requests
for Admission, Set One, and (iv) Form Interrogatories, Set Two, within thirty
days, and pay $4,000.00 in sanctions. PinnacleLGS and its attorney have also
ignored the Court’s Order. 
o   Charles,
PinnacleLGS and their counsel, Kousha Berokim, ignored the March 26, 2024,
Court Order, thereby requiring James to file his first motion for terminating,
issue, and/or evidentiary sanction on May 6, 2026
o   On June 26, 2024, the same date that the opposition to James’ motion for
sanctions was due, Charles and PinnacleLGS tried to moot the terminating
sanctions motion by serving further responses, which remained deficient.
o   The parties met and conferred regarding the purportedly deficient
responses, Charles and PinnacleLGS missed several deadlines to serve further
responses to requests for production.
·      
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have
not complied with the Court’s March 26, 2024, Order because Defendants’ further
responses are deficient 
o   Defendants responded to the Demand for Production of Documents, Set One,
stating “The responding party has diligently searched its records and
responsive documents are being produced.”
o   Defendants statement is evasive and incomplete, it calls into question as
to whether Defendants once had but no longer have responsive documents and Defendants
must identify the documents over which he no longer has possession, custody, or
control, as set forth in section 2031.230
o   Plaintiff also seeks further responses from Charles to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, because Charles did not include the email
address and dates of employment as to Special Interrogatory No. 9.
·      
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 permits a
court to award issue, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions against any party
that disobeys a court order. 
·      
Plaintiff has incurred in legal fees in bringing each Motion
Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:

·      
Defendants further responses served on June
26, 2024 are code compliant. Defendants have complied with the Court’s orders. 
o   After the Court granted James Chueng’s motion to compel Charles Cheung to
provide further responses and production to James Chueng, on June 26, 2024,
Charles Chueng served his verified Third Supplemented Responses as to the
requests at issue, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 57, and 61, stating that he had diligently
searched his records and that responsive documents were being produced. Along with the responses, Charles Chueng
provided a voluminous production, providing the requested documents. The
production was 788 pages.
o   Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, propounded on Defendant Charles is moot as Plaintiff
has since provided supplemental responses. 
·      
The sought dispositive evidentiary
sanctions do not relate to, and are not justified, by the alleged discovery
deficiencies
·      
Sanctions should be imposed against
Plaintiff for bringing this motion 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that
Defendants’ further responses are not code compliant. 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
A misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit
to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd.
(d).)  A misuse of the discovery process also includes disobeying a court
order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) A court
may impose issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or monetary sanctions against a
party engaging in misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030.) Where an issue sanction is imposed, “designated facts shall be taken
as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).) An issue sanction may also involve “any party engaging in
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An evidence sanction
involves “an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)  
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.)
Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for issue and/or evidentiary sanctions
against Defendants on the grounds that Defendants failed to comply with the
Court’s March 26, 2024 Order granting Plaintiff’s requests for further
discovery responses. In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling
Defendants to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 order. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions.  
On March 26, 2024 the Court granted Plaintiff’s requests for
further discovery responses and granted monetary sanctions against Defendants. The
Court ordered “compliance with discovery orders and payment of sanctions (total
$4,500 against both Defendants and their counsel) to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days.” (Court’s 03/26/24 Minute Order, p. 5.) 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his first motion for terminating,
issue and/or evidentiary sanctions, and monetary sanctions, against Defendants
for failure to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 order. In Plaintiff’s
motion, he asserted that Defendants had failed to serve any further discovery
responses in violation of the Court’s order. 
On June 26, 2024, Defendants served further discovery responses.
On July 10, 2024, the Court ruled that because Defendants had
served further responses, and without taking a position as to whether those
further responses complied with the Court’s March 26, 2024, Order, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s motion for terminating, issue, and/or evidentiary sanctions,
but did award monetary sanctions of $4,500 against Defendants and their counsel
jointly and severally. (Court’s 07/10/24 Minute Order, pp. 6-7.) The parties subsequently met and conferred
regarding the purportedly deficient responses. (King Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants agreed to provide further responses. (Ibid.) On
August 19, 2024, Defendants served further responses to interrogatories and
requests for admission, but not requests for production. (Ibid.) Defendants
have not served further responses to the requests for production. (Ibid.)
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for issue and/or
evidentiary sanctions, and monetary sanctions, against Defendants arguing that
Defendants have still failed to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order
because the further responses to the requests for production served on June 26,
2024 were not code compliant.
On September 26, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion on the
grounds that the Court could not determine whether Defendants’ further
responses were code compliant. Plaintiff’s motion did not accurately cite all
of the requests and purportedly deficient responses, nor did Plaintiff provide
a Separate Statement. 
In Plaintiff’s instant motions for sanctions, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants have still failed to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order
because Defendants have not served code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, against Defendants Charles and
PinnacleLGS and Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, against Defendant
Charles. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ further responses served on June 26,
2024 were not code compliant. Plaintiff asserts that his counsel met and
conferred with Defendants’ counsel on September 27, 2024, and Defendants’
counsel agreed to serve further supplemental responses by October 4, 2024. (King Decl., ¶ 9.) However, Plaintiffs’ counsel contends
that Defendants have failed to supplement these
responses. (Ibid.)
In opposition, Defendants argue the motions should be denied
because Defendants have complied with
the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order. Defendants assert that the further responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests served on June 26, 2024 are code compliant. 
a.      Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Propounded on Defendants Charles
and PinnacleLGS
 
Upon a review of Defendants’ responses to Requests for
Production, Set One, the Court finds that further responses are warranted. Defendants’
response that “The responding party has diligently searched its records and
responsive documents are being produced” is incomplete. Defendants failed to
comply with Code Civ. Proc., section 2018.280(a), which requires identifying
which documents correspond to each specific discovery request. Further,
Defendants’ statement does not comply with Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.220.
which requires stating that the production “will be allowed either in whole or
in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in
the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” 
 
The Court does
not grant issue and evidence sanctions at this time. However, Plaintiff’s request
for an order compelling Defendants
to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production, Set One,
Request Nos. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 57, and 61, is GRANTED.  
 
b.      Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Propounded on Defendant Charles 
 
Regarding Special Interrogatories,
Set One, propounded on Defendant Charles, the Court does not find further
responses are warranted. 
 
In Plaintiff’s motion, he argues that
in response to Interrogatories Nos. 9 and 10, Defendant Charles must provide
the dates of employment and email addresses of the subject employees. 
 
In response, Defendant Charles
contends Plaintiff’s motion is moot because Defendant Charles has since
provided the requested information. Attached as Exhibit A to Defendant Charles’
opposition, he provided the requested dates of employment and other identifying
information of the subject employees, including their names, addresses and
telephone numbers. (Oppos., Ex. A.) Plaintiff did not file a reply. The Court
finds Defendant Charles’ response sufficient at this time. Thus, Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions or in the alternative, an order compelling further
responses and monetary sanctions as to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is
DENIED. 
 
c.       Monetary
Sanctions
 
In sum, issue and evidentiary sanctions are denied at this
time. Plaintiff’s request for an order compelling Defendants to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production,
Set One is granted. The Court finds that Defendants engaged in discovery abuse
by failing to provide code compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for
Production, Set One and refusing to pay sanctions as
ordered. 
 
The Court
finds that additional monetary sanctions are warranted against Defendants. While
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions as to each motion, the Court is inclined
to grant sanctions in the sum of $4,500 for both motions regarding Plaintiff’s Demand for Production, Set One, as the motions are substantively similar. Therefore, the
Court grants Plaintiff additional sanctions of $4,500 for 10 hours of attorney
time at a rate of $450 per hour. These sanctions are imposed jointly and
severally against Defendants Charles Cheung, Pinnacle LGS and their counsel.
Defendants are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions awards, in the amount of $5,000, payable
within thirty (30) days. 
 

III.
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Motions for Sanctions against Defendants Charles Cheung and
PinnacleLGS, Inc. are GRANTED and DENIED in part as follows: 
(1)
DENIED as to issue and evidentiary sanctions against Defendants; 
(2) GRANTED
as to an order compelling Defendants to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s
Demand for Production, Set One, Request Nos. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 57, and 61; 
(3) DENIED as
to an order compelling Defendant Charles Cheung to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One; and
(4) GRANTED
as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,500 against Defendants Charles
Cheung, Pinnacle LGS and
their counsel, jointly and severally.
 
Defendants
Charles Cheung and Pinnacle LGS are ordered to pay the additional sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $4,500, within thirty
(30) days. Defendants are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions
awards, in the amount of $5,000, payable
within thirty (30) days. 