


[1]           The Board of Rights noted that Miguel
screamed in pain upon petitioner’s application of a wrist lock. (AR 890.)
Sergeant Ku testified that pain does not necessarily mean that Miguel was
injured. (AR 232-33.) The policy states that the use of a joint lock not
resulting in injury or complained of injury is not reportable. (AR 927.)
Miguel’s screams of pain and assertion that petitioner was hurting him meant
that Miguel was complaining of injury, regardless of whether Miguel was
actually injured. (AR 445.) Putting aside the issue of whether Miguel
complained of any injury, even if Miguel’s walking away while petitioner
attempted to place him in the vehicle constituted passive resistance,
petitioner testified that he used the joint lock to pull him back over and used
the police vehicle and body weight to maintain control over Miguel. (AR
445-46.) That testimony concedes petitioner employed overt exertion to maintain
control over Miguel; such exertion is reportable. (AR 927.)  


[2]           The Board and respondents also argue that Miguel told MDC
medical staff that he was suicidal. (AR 895, 947.) According to Sergeant Ku,
officers stay with the arrestee during the medical staff’s interview of the
arrestee. (AR 267-68, 895.) The arrest report also indicates that petitioner
was present when Miguel told MDC medical staff that he was suicidal and wanted
to kill himself. (AR 932.) The report states: “At this time, we were
advised by the staff that due to his behavior along with his comments,
he would be placed in a safety cell until he sobers up.” (AR 932,
emphasis added.) The relevance of respondents’ argument is unclear, as
respondents do not indicate whether the medical examination of petitioner
occurred before petitioner completed the medical screening form. Regardless,
putting aside what Miguel said during the medical examination, the weight of
the evidence still supports the finding that petitioner otherwise heard
Miguel’s statements demonstrating suicidal ideation. 

