 Case Number:  22STCV34670    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV34670




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Ross Dress for Less, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Carmeletta Mobley 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
October 31, 2022, Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley, in pro per (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant Ross Dress for Less (“Defendant”) for
damages after allegedly hitting her head on a metal shelf at Defendant’s
store.  Defendant filed an answer on December 12, 2022.  
 
Defendant now moves for judgment on the pleadings based on the Request
for Admissions that were deemed admitted against Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes
and Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, the Declaration of Charles
F. Saacke does not set forth facts that he met and conferred with Plaintiff
prior to filing this motion. Nevertheless, “[a] determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or
deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(4).) 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court takes judicial notice of Defendant’s exhibit A, the Court’s
November 20, 2023 ruling. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) However, the Court denies the
request for judicial notice of exhibit B, Plaintiff’s responses to the request
for admissions. To the extent Defendant argues exhibit B is contained in the
Court’s record, the Court would take judicial notice of its existence but may
not take judicial notice of the substance of the matters within. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            As an initial matter, even
though this motion was brought within 30 days before trial, set for April 29,
2024, the Court will permit the motion.[1]
 
            Here, Defendant does not seek
summary judgment, but rather seeks judgment on the pleadings based solely on the
order deeming admitted the requests for admissions. However, this motion may
only be based on the pleadings and matters judicially noticed. Here, Defendant
does not argue that Plaintiff’s allegations in the complaint fail to state a
cause of action. 
 
The complaint alleges causes of
action for negligence and premises liability. “The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are
the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1158.) Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must
prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant
was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.) Here,
Plaintiff’s complaint sufficiently alleges she suffered injuries due to a
negligent condition on Defendant’s property. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
 
Defendant shall give notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


