 Case Number:  21STCV29817    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29817




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Deposition of Western Freight Carrier, Inc.




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra
  Williams




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Western Freight Carrier, Inc. and Estate of Gerardo Rendon Venegas



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 12,
2021, Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra Williams (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Gerardo Rendon Venegas, Western Freight Carrier, Inc., and
Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
 
Plaintiffs now move to compel the deposition of Western Freight
Carrier, Inc.’s person most qualified (“PMQ”). Plaintiffs also seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendants Western Freight Carrier, Inc. (“Defendant”) opposes and
seek monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to
take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the
specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) provides: “If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section 2025.410. 
 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
  
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion is timely because on February 15,
2024, pursuant to Plaintiffs’ ex parte application, the Court continued trial
and all related dates to May 14, 2024. Therefore, since the discovery motion
cut off is now April 29, 2024, this motion is timely. (See Code Civ. Proc.§
2024.020 (a).) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that throughout the month of January 2024, they
have attempted to schedule the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ. On January 8,
2024, Plaintiffs served a notice of deposition, set for January 31, 2024. (Kim
Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) On January 24, 2024, Defendant served an objection asserting
the date was set unilaterally. (Id. ¶ 9, Exh. 4.) It does not appear that
Plaintiffs obtained a certificate of non-appearance. Instead, on January 29,
2024, Plaintiffs emailed Defendant’s counsel for alternative dates. On February
8, 2024, Defendant asserted that it could not produce a PMQ before the current
discovery cutoff and would not agree to a deposition after the then cut-off
date. (Id. ¶ 12.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues this motion is moot since the parties
have since agreed to take Defendant PMQ’s deposition on April 12, 2024. (Mathis
Decl. ¶ 10–11.) 
 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue the motion should be granted given
Defendant’s history of discovery misconduct, and to ensure the April 12, 2024
deposition goes through. (Reply, 3.) However, given that a date has been agreed
upon, and Plaintiffs appeared to acquiesce to Defendant’s counsels’
unavailability on January 31, 2024, the motion is denied as moot. As Defendant
does not justify its objections to the PMQ topics or production of documents,
Defendant shall produce all responsive documents and a PMQ as to all topics. 
 
Considering that the discovery deadline changed after filing this
motion, and Defendant has agreed to produce its PMQ for deposition, the Court
declines to award sanctions to either party. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the
Deposition of Western Freight Carrier, Inc., as moot. 
 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV29817




MOTION


Motion
  to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Western Freight Carrier, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  Henry Leslie and Tamarra Williams



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Western Freight Carrier, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to
continue trial and all related dates. Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra
Williams (“Plaintiffs”) oppose. Defendant replies. On April 3, 2024,
co-Defendant Estate of Gerardo Rendon Venegas, deceased, filed a notice of
joinder to the motion. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on August
12, 2021. 
 
            Defendants’ answer was filed on October
25, 2021. Trial was originally set for February 9, 2023. 
 
            On September 19, 2022, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued the trial and all related dates to August 30,
2023. 
 
             
On July 13, 2023, pursuant to Defendants’ ex parte application, the
Court continued trial and all related dates to March 11, 2024. 
 
            On February 15, 2024, pursuant to
Plaintiffs’ ex parte application, the Court continued trial and all related
dates to May 14, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Defendant has argued that Plaintiffs accepted
a settlement on May 15, 2023. On September 18, 2023, the Court denied
Defendant’s motion to enforce the settlement under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6. On November 30, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for
leave to amend its answer and assert the settlement as an affirmative defense. 
 
Defendants assert that on September 19, 2023, they reserved
a summary judgment motion. Since then, they checked the Court’s reservation
system for cancelations and eventually secured a hearing date for July 1, 2024.
(Mathis Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendants assert they will file the summary judgment
motion by the statutory notice requirement of April 17, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9.)
Defendants ask that trial and all related dates be continued to October 28,
2024 in order for the summary judgment motion to be heard and for time to
conduct discovery afterward. 
 
Plaintiffs argue Defendant has been dilatory in pursuing
their summary judgment motion after the Court denied its section 664.6 motion. However,
as no motion for summary judgment has been filed, the Court does not find good cause
to continue trial and all related dates. 
 
Therefore,
Defendants’ motion is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to continue trial.  
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a
proof of service of such. 
 
 