  Case Number:  20STCV34789    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV34789




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval of Compromise for Person with Disability




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Erez Illouz




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 27, 2024 by Petitioner Erez Illouz (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Natalie Illouz, age 39.
The Court continues the hearing to May 8, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 to
permit Petitioner time to address or resolve the issues set forth below. 
 
On December 16, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff Natalie
Illouz’s motion to substitute Erez Illouz as Plaintiff’s new guardian ad litem.
Petitioner states that Claimant was injured after being hit by a motor vehicle
while crossing an intersection as a pedestrian. Claimant suffers permanent
injuries and requires caregiver services. (Attach. 8.) 
 
The Court finds the following defects in the petition:
 
The difference between the total medical expenses in item
12a(1) and the reductions in item 12a(3) is $235,785.40, which is different
than the amount sought to be paid from the proceeds. As a result, it is unclear
if the amount in item 12(a)(4) is accurate. Similarly, the amounts sought to be
reimbursed throughout item 12b (including attachment 12b(2)) do not equal the
sum in item 12(a)(4). 
 
The amount in item 12b(5)(a)(ii) must equal the amounts
in 12b(5)(b). Based on the values provided, it appears the lienholders have
agreed to accept the sum of $26,463.41, not $26,658.41. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner must state his
name in item 2. 
 
Petitioner proposes to deposit the entire net settlement
proceeds ($283,691.72) into a pooled SNT for the benefit of Claimant. 
 
The Court finds the following defects pertaining to the
proposed trust instrument:
 
·        
When seeking approval of a special needs trust
(SNT), notice of the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon
three state agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of
Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care Services.  (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). Here,
there is no proof of service to all three state agencies (only to the Dept. of
Health Care Services).
·        
The proposed trust instrument meets the
requirements of CRC rule 7.903(c). However, the proposed trust
instrument does not contain the following terms as set forth in LASC rule
4.116(b), labelled by the quoted subsection. 
o  
(b)(2) Any purchase of a personal residence
for a beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court pursuant to the
rules applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (See Prob. Code, §
2571);
o  
(b)(3) Any sale of a personal residence of the
beneficiary may be made only if authorized by the court pursuant to the rules
applicable to conservatorships and guardianships. (Prob. Code, § 2540(b).) Such
sales must be returned to court for confirmation. (See Prob. Code, § 10300 et
seq.); and
o  
(b)(4) The trustee may not borrow money, lend
money, give security, lease, convey, or exchange any property of the estate
without prior authorization of the court. (Prob. Code, § 2550.)
·        
The Joinder Agreement, which provides terms by
which plaintiff would participate in the pooled SNT, contains improper estate
planning for an incapacitated adult. 
Specifically, it names two individuals who would be 50% residual
beneficiaries of remaining trust assets upon plaintiff’s death.  (Court’s pdf at p. 189.)   A proper trust term would state that any
remaining trust assets, after payback to the state(s), should be paid to the
trust beneficiary’s “heirs at law.”  And
at most, the trust instrument would provide a power of appointment for
plaintiff whereby plaintiff could designate trust beneficiaries in a will if
plaintiff has mental capacity to do so.  Moreover,
one of the named beneficiaries is petitioner which creates a conflict of
interest. Petitioner must supply a revised Joinder Agreement. 
·        
Normally,
bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate
fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court,
Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.) 
The proposed trustee does not meet the definition of a corporate
fiduciary.  Petitioner does not request
or calculate bond in the petition but states a $283,691.72 bond at Section 11
of the proposed order. A proper bond calculation based upon the assets to be
funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income from investments and any
annuity, plus an additional amount required for the costs of any recovery on
the bond, would be $328,000.  
 
The following deficiencies are present in the Proposed
Order (MC-351):
 
Item 8b(3) fails to provide for satisfaction of state
liens.
 
Order fails to require first trust
accounting in one year and sets 14-month calendar due date.
Order fails to require filing of a
Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form
PRO 044 within 60 days.
Order fails to set OSC in this civil
department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission
of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate.
Bond amount must be corrected in item
11. 
Revised Joinder Agreement to be attached when corrected pursuant
to requirements set forth above.  
 
The Court notes that on January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset
qualification limit was eliminated and there is no longer a means test for
Medi-Cal. However, to the extent that Petitioner continues to pursue the
creation and funding of a SNT to maintain other benefits, Petitioner must
correct the above deficiencies. 
 
To the extent a SNT is no longer requested, Petitioner
must correct the deficiencies regarding the petition.
 
Accordingly, the Court continues the hearing to May 8,
2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. A revised
petition must be filed and served by April 16, 2024.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 
 