  Case Number:  22STCV18719    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (LONGS)
On June 7, 2022,
Plaintiff Claudia Ann Smith filed this action alleging she developed
mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos in products from Defendant
Longs Drug Stores California, LLC.  Defendant
filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the negligence, strict liability, negligent misrepresentation,
fraud by nondisclosure, and request for punitive damages. 
A.        Objections
Plaintiff’s Objections:
The court did not rely on this document. 

Defendant’s Objections:  Overruled
B.        Summary Judgment
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiff has no evidence she was exposed to asbestos in talcum powder products
purchased from Defendant, citing Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses asking for
all evidence surrounding Plaintiff’s exposure to asbestos.  (Motion at pp. 13-14; Defendant’s Index, Ex. B
at p. 4.) Plaintiff responded that, from the mid-1960s to 2010, she regularly
went to Defendant’s stores to purchase makeup and personal hygiene products
such as loose body powder, loose face powder, mascara, blush and eye shadow
that contained talcum powder.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. C at p. 2.)  She bought
CoverGirl, Revlon, Maybelline, and L’Oreal products at Defendant’s stores.  (Ibid.)  She also testified that she purchased
CoverGirl, L’Oreal, Maybelline, Revlon, and Dr. Scholls products from Defendant’s
stores located in West Anaheim and in Garden Grove.  (Id. at pp. 637- 638.) 
Defendant argues the
discovery responses do not contain evidence that the products Plaintiff bought
from Defendant’s stores contained asbestos. 
Assuming Defendant met its burden, Plaintiff provided evidence of
disputed issues.  Plaintiff testified the
Dr. Scholls product she used was from Defendant’s stores.  (Plaintiff’s Ex. A at p. 398.)  Plaintiff filed a declaration from Sean
Fitzgerald stating that he and others have tested the talc from the same
sources where Dr. Scholls obtained its talc and have found asbestos in the
talc, and he tested bottles of Dr. Scholls from the same time period Plaintiff
was using the product and he found asbestos. 
(Plaintiff’s Ex. B at pp. 33, 52-55.)
Defendant argues the
Plaintiff used many different talcum products purchased from many stores, and
so Plaintiff cannot prove that products from Defendant’s stores were a substantial
factor in causing her injury.  Plaintiff
testified she used Dr. Scholls every day from the time she was in high school
until about ten years ago.  (Plaintiff’s
Ex. A at pp. 105-106.)  In the 1960s and
1970s she purchased the product from Defendant’s stores because they were
convenient.  (Id. at pp. 637-639, 640-641.)

These facts are somewhat
like the facts in Strobel v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
796 and Lyons v. Colgate-Palmolive Co. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 463.  In Strobel the court reversed a grant
of summary judgment in a case involving asbestos in Johnson & Johnson’s
baby powder because the plaintiff used the baby powder his entire life from
1951 until 2014 and was not exposed to asbestos from any other source, and
there was expert testimony that the product contained asbestos.  (Strobel, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at pp.
801, 807.)  In Lyons the court
reversed a grant of summary judgment where the plaintiff used Cashmere Bouquet
regularly from the early 1950s to the early 1970s and there was an absence of
evidence of exposure from other sources. 
(Lyons, supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at pp. 465, 469.)  Here, there is evidence that Plaintiff used Dr.
Scholls every day for decades and during 1960s and 1970s was purchasing the
product from Defendant’s stores. 
However, she also claims exposure from other cosmetic products, and so
there may be evidence of exposure from other sources.  Given her every-day use over decades and the
expert testimony about asbestos contamination, there is “more than an
unsupported possibility” that she was exposed to asbestos from Dr. Scholls obtained
from Defendant’s stores.  (Id. at
p. 469.)  That there may be evidence at
trial about exposure from other sources goes to the apportionment of damages.
This evidence shows a
triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff was exposed to asbestos in
products from Defendant and whether that exposure was a substantial factor in
causing her illness.  Therefore, the
motion for summary judgment is denied.
C.        Summary Adjudication – Negligence, Strict Liability
Defendant seeks summary adjudication of the negligence and
strict liability causes of action because there is no evidence of exposure to
Defendant’s products.  This evidence
fails for the reasons cited above.  The motion for
summary adjudication as to first cause of action for negligence and the second cause
of action for strict liability is denied.
D         Summary
Adjudication – Negligent Misrepresentation
The third cause of action
is for negligent misrepresentation.  It
alleges with no specificity that all of the defendants “represented that
asbestos generally and asbestos-containing products marketed, sold, supplied,
distributed, disturbed, installed removed, and/or placed in the stream of
commerce by Defendants were of merchantable quality and safe for their intended
and foreseeable use.”  (Complaint at pp.
11-12.)
“Negligent
misrepresentation is a form of deceit, the elements of which consist of (1) a
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was directed, and
(5) damages.”  (Fox v. Pollack
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 954, 962.)  “[A]
positive assertion is required; an omission or an implied assertion or
representation is not sufficient.” (Apollo Capital Fund v. Roth Capital
Partners (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are deficient, citing Plaintiff’s responses to
special interrogatories which asking for all facts supporting Plaintiff’s
causes of action against Defendant.  (Motion at pp. 19-20, Defendant’s Index Ex. A
at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs did not identify
any specific information that Defendant negligently misrepresented a material
fact.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. B at p.
1-7.)  Nor did the Plaintiff provide
evidence that a consumer who purchased products from Defendant justifiably
relied on a misrepresentation. (Ibid.)  The deficient discovery responses shifted the
burden.  
Plaintiff states she waives
this cause of action and, thus, did not show an existence of a disputed
fact.  (Opposition at p. 1 n.1.)  The motion for summary adjudication is granted
on the third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. 
D.        Summary Adjudication -- Fraud
The fourth cause of
action alleges with no specificity that all of the defendants “failed to
disclose certain facts, known exclusively to them, and which Plaintiff could
not have discovered” regarding the “hazardous nature of their
asbestos-containing products including the existence of and amount of asbestos
present in said products and the propensity of those products to release
asbestos fibers into the air during their ordinary and intended use.”  (Complaint at pp. 12-13.)  These allegations are vague and deficient.
“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and
“must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler-Engler requirement. 
(Bader v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)  
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are deficient, citing Plaintiff’s responses to
special interrogatories which asking for all facts supporting Plaintiff’s
causes of action against Defendant.  (Motion at pp. 19-20, Defendant’s Index Ex. A
at p. 5.)  Plaintiff did not identify any
specific information that Defendant concealed from her and does not provide
evidence that Plaintiff and Defendant were in a fiduciary relationship or that
there were direct dealings or some sort of transaction between them.  (Defendant’s Index Ex. C at p. 1-7.)
Plaintiff states she waives
this cause of action and, thus, did not show an existence of a disputed
fact.  (Opposition at p. 1 n.1.)  The motion for summary adjudication is granted
on the fourth cause of action. 
E.        Summary Adjudication – Punitive Damages
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff lacks clear and convincing evidence Defendant engaged in behavior
amounting to malice, oppression, or fraud sufficient to impose punitive
damages.  (Motion at p. 21.)  When the motion targets a request for
punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although the clear
and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on
a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) That
requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the evidence permits a clear and convincing
inference that within the corporate hierarchy authorized persons acted
despicably in “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” ’  [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)
On the other hand, a defendant’s knowledge of trace amounts of asbestos in talc
does not necessarily mean that the defendant knew that asbestos in talc “would
cause a high probability of injury.”  (McNeal
v. Whittaker, Clark & Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 873.)
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s discovery responses are deficient, citing responses to special
interrogatories which asking for all facts supporting Plaintiff’s claims for
punitive damages.  (Motion at p. 21; Defendant’s
Index, Ex. A at p. 5.)  Plaintiff
responded that Defendant knew or should have known about the hazards of
asbestos yet continued to sell, supply, specify, recommend, and distribute such
products without warnings or precautionary instructions.  (Id. at p. 3.)  Plaintiff refers to ordinances, statutes,
government regulations, medical and scientific literature, and “hundreds of
articles” published on the health hazards of asbestos between 1950 and 1968.  (Id. at pp. 3-4.)  The responses also did not contain specific
evidence that Defendant saw those scientific articles, or otherwise had
knowledge about asbestos at the relevant time period, or that the referenced
materials provided notice of the dangers of asbestos in talc in cosmetic and
talcum powder products.
Defendant also cites
Plaintiff’s responses to request for production relating to punitive damages.  (Defendant’s Index Ex. D at p. 7.)  Plaintiff’s responses, referred to Plaintiff’s
medical records, deposition testimony of Plaintiffs, experts, and Defendant’s
person most qualified, Defendant’s discovery responses, and several prior
deposition transcripts. (Defendant’s Index, Ex E at pp. 1-3.)  They did not identify any particular documents
showing Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos in talc in cosmetic and
talcum powder products. 
The discovery responses
do not provide specific evidence concerning Defendant’s knowledge or intent to
harm to prove malice, oppression, fraud, or conscious disregard for the safety
of others.  Therefore, the Defendant
shifted the burden.
Plaintiff contends,
without providing evidence, that Defendant knew or had a duty to know the
hazards of asbestos fiber, knew the products it sold contained asbestos fiber,
yet continued to manufacture and market those products for the sake of profit.  (Opposition at p. 14.)  Because Plaintiff did not provide evidence of
these assertions, Plaintiff did not show an existence of a disputed fact.  The motion for summary adjudication is granted
on the claim for punitive damages. 
The motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.  The motion for
summary adjudication of the third and fourth causes of action and request for
punitive damages is GRANTED, and otherwise is DENIED.
The moving party is to
give notice.