 Case Number:  23STCV20094    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  1 23STCV20094           ALDEA
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION vs PORTER RANCH DEVELOPMENT CO
Plaintiff’s Unopposed Motion for Judicial Reference Pursuant
to C.C.P. §§ 638 and 640-645.1
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motion is CONTINUED for the parties to provide the
following supplemental information:
 
-       
“The name and telephone number of a
person for any member of the public to contact in order to attend a proceeding
that would be open to the public if held in a courthouse.” (LASC Local Rules,
rule 2.24(b));
 
-       
Judge Sundvold’s certification and
consent to serve. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.901(b)(4); and
 
-       
A proposed order that includes the
matters specified in California Rules of Court, rule 3.902. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.901(b)(5).)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
 
On August 22, 2023, Aldea Community Association
filed this action against Porter Ranch Development Co., Shapell Industries,
Inc., and Liberty Building Company asserting causes of action for: (1)
violation of building standards; (2) negligence; (3) strict liability; (4)
breach of fiduciary duty; and (5) violation of governing documents.
 
On September 1, 2023, the court issued an order
staying the case, except for service of the summons and complaint. On October
26, 2023, the court partially lifted the say to allow leave to file motions. 
 
Motion 
 
On April 22, 2024, the parties filed the instant
joint motion for judicial reference covering all issues.
 
The joint motion is unopposed. 
 
Judicial Notice 
 
The parties request the Court take judicial notice
of the Amended and Restated Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and
Restrictions and Reservation of Easements for Aldea at Porter Ranch, recorded
with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on November 10, 2008 as Document
No. 2008-1984762. The request is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(c); Eisen v.
Tavangarian (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 626, 642 n.12 (granting judicial notice
of recorded CC&Rs); River’s Side at Washington Square Homeowners
Association v. Superior Court of Yolo County (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1209,
1220 n.3 (same).)
 
Motion for Judicial Reference
 
Standard
 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 638(a), “[a] referee may be appointed upon the
agreement of the parties filed with the clerk, or judge, or entered in the
minutes, or upon the motion of a party to a written contract or lease that
provides that any controversy arising therefrom shall be heard by a referee if
the court finds a reference agreement exists between the parties: (a) To hear
and determine any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of
fact or of law, and to report a statement of decision.”
 
“Judicial
reference involves sending a pending trial court action to a referee for
hearing, determination and a report back to the court. A general reference
directs the referee to try all issues in the action. The hearing is conducted
under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings. In a general
reference, the referee prepares a statement of decision that stands as the
decision of the court and is reviewable as if the court had rendered it. The
primary effect of such a reference is to require trial by a referee and not by
a court or jury.” (O'Donoghue
v. Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 245, 255
(quotations and citations omitted).) While judicial references differ
significantly from arbitrations, courts draw on cases related to arbitration in
assessing judicial reference agreements. (Id. at 250.) 
 
“In any
matter in which a referee is appointed pursuant to this section, a copy of the
order shall be forwarded to the office of the presiding judge.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 638(b).)
 
“The
stipulation or motion for the appointment of a referee under section 638 must:
(1) Clearly state whether the scope of the requested reference includes all
issues or is limited to specified issues; (2) State whether the referee will be
privately compensated; (3) If authorization to use court facilities or court
personnel is requested, describe the use requested and state the reasons that
this would further the interests of justice; (4) If the applicant is requesting
or the parties have stipulated to the appointment of a particular referee, be
accompanied by the proposed referee's certification as required by rule
3.904(a); and (5) Be accompanied by a proposed order that includes the matters
specified in rule 3.902.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.901(b).) 
 
Pursuant to
Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, rule 2.24(a)(2), “[t]he
Supervising Judge of the Civil or Family Law Division appoint a referee who
will hear the case for all purposes, including judgment.” “A written agreement
for an order directing a reference is subject to the court’s approval, and the
court may, in its discretion, refuse to approve the reference.” (LASC Local
Rules, rule 2.24(m).) 
 
The
Motion is Continued to Allow an Opportunity to Address Procedural Deficiencies
 
The
parties agree the Amended and Restated Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and
Restrictions and Reservation of Easements for Aldea at Porter Ranch
(“CC&Rs”) mandates a judicial reference of their dispute. Section
12.13.2(vi) of the CC&R’s for Plaintiff provides: 
 
(iv) Judicial Reference. If the
parties to a Dispute are unable to resolve the Dispute pursuant to the
procedures described in Subsections 12.13.2(ii)1 or 12.13.2(iii)2 , the Dispute
shall be resolved by general judicial reference pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure Sections 638 and 641 through 645.1. Subject to the limitations
set forth below in this Subsection, the judicial referee (“Referee”) shall have
the authority to and shall try all issues, whether of fact or of law, including
without limitation the validity, scope and enforceability of this Subsection
and shall prepare and report a written statement of decision and judgment to
the court. The Referee shall be the only trier of fact or law in the reference
proceeding and shall have no authority to further refer any issues of fact or
law to any other party without the mutual consent of all parties to the
judicial reference proceeding.
 
(Ralidis
Decl. Ex. B.) 
 
The
parties also agree the provision is enforceable. (See also Woodside Homes of
Cal., Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 723, 727 (“a binding
judicial reference is substantially similar to nonjudicial arbitration, and a
similar approach is therefore justified in evaluating the enforceability of the
provisions.”).) The parties seek a reference for all purposes. (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.901(b)(1).) 
 
The
parties have stipulated to appoint Steven J. Sundvold (Ret.) of JAMS as the
judicial referee for all purposes. (Ralidis Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A ¶ 8. See Code Civ. Proc. § 640(a) (“The court shall
appoint as referee or referees the person or persons, not exceeding three,
agreed upon by the parties.”).) The parties’ stipulation includes an agreement
on the referee’s payment. (Ralidis Decl. Ex. A; LASC Local Rules, rule 3.9(a); Code Civ. Proc. § 645.1(a); Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.901(b)(2).) 
 
However,
the parties failed to provide the required certification from Judge Sundvold. Pursuant to California Rules of Court,
rule 3.901(b)(4), “[t]he stipulation or motion for the appointment of a referee
under section 638 must: . . . If
the applicant is requesting or the parties have stipulated to the appointment
of a particular referee, be accompanied by the proposed referee’s certification
as required by rule 3.904(a).” Rule 3.904(a) provides: “[b]efore a referee
begins to serve: (1) The referee must certify in writing that he or she
consents to serve as provided in the order of appointment and is aware of and
will comply with applicable provisions of canon 6 of the Code of Judicial
Ethics and with the California Rules of Court; and (2) The referee's certification
must be filed with the court.” Accordingly, the parties must file the
certification prior to the continued hearing date. 
 
“All
proceedings before a temporary judge or referee must be open to the public,
with no restriction on attendance that would not be applicable if the
proceedings were held in a courthouse. The . . . agreement for a reference must
set forth the name and telephone number of a person for any member of the
public to contact in order to attend a proceeding that would be open to the
public if held in a courthouse.” (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.24(b).) The parties’
initial stipulations, (Ralidis Decl. Ex. A), failed to include this information
and the parties did not correct this omission in their motion. The parties must
provide the name and telephone number of the appropriate contact person prior
to the continued hearing date. (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.24(b) (“A notice
containing such name and address shall be posted by the clerk as required by
California Rules of Court, rules 2.831 and 3.900 et seq.”).) 
 
The parties also failed to submit a
proposed order as required. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.901(b)(5) (“The stipulation or
motion for the appointment of a referee under section 638 must: . . . [b]e
accompanied by a proposed order that includes the matters specified in rule
3.902.”).) The parties must submit a
proposed order prior to the continued hearing date. 
 