  Case Number:  21STCV24836    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



J.P., a minor, by and through
  her Guardian Ad Litem DOMINICA MITCHELL; K.P., a minor, by and through his
  Guardian Ad Litem LYNETTE GRULLON; X.P., a minor, by and through his Guardian
  Ad Litem LYNETTE GRULLON; and TEWITT POWELL, as personal representative on
  behalf of the ESTATE OF KEVIN POWELL, SR., decedent,
 
                                       
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
FIRST
  TO SERVE, INC., a California corporation; VAGABOND INN CORPORATION, a
  California corporation; LEKENDRECK RICHARDS, an individual; OLIVIA COBAIN, an
  individual; Go RN LLC; Lizzet Zepeda Yeo, an individual; Vista Inn Glendale,
  LLC; Vista Investments Mgmt. Co., Inc.; and Vagabond Glendale, LLC and DOES 6
  through 20, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 
 
___________________________________
 
AND
  RELATED CROSS-ACTION


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.:  21STCV24836
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING MOTION OF DEFENDANTS GO RN, LLC, OLIVIA COBAIN, AND LIZZET
  ZEPEDA FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT; BUT GRANTING SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO THE THIRD
  CAUSE OF ACTION UNDER THE SURVIVAL STATUTES
 
Date: March 28, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
I.        INTRODUCTION
This action concerns the death of Kevin Powell
Senior (Decedent), who died during an epileptic seizure at the Vagabond Inn. He
was a recipient of transitional housing provided as a part of a housing program
for homeless individuals. Defendant First
to Serve, Inc. (FTS) was a corporation that managed and operated the subject
hotel where the incident occurred. Defendants Lekendrick Richards (Richards),
and Olivia Cobain were employees of FTS, serving as project manager of the
hotel and head nurse of the hotel, respectively. FTS contracted with City of
Glendale and Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority to provide housing for
chronically homeless individuals. The Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority
then separately contracted with Go RN to provide medical services to housing
recipients. 
 Plaintiffs
are the minor children of decedent and personal representative of the estate of
decedent. They sued Vagabond Inn, First to Serve, Inc., Lekendrick Richards and
Olivia Cobain for:  (1) wrongful death,
(2) negligence, (3) survival action and (4) negligent hiring, training and
retention. Defendants Go RN LLC, Lizzet Zepeda Yeo, Vista Inn Glendale LLC,
Vista Investments Managements Co. and Vagabond Glendale LLC were later
substituted for Doe defendants. Defendants Vista Inn and Vagabond Glendale have
since been dismissed; and Defendants (and Cross-Complainants) First to Serve
and Lekendrick Richards have settled with Plaintiffs.  The First to Serve/Richards settlement has
been determined to be in good faith.
          Defendants Go RN
LLC, Lizzet Zepeda Yeo and Olivia Cobain (collectively Defendants) filed this
motion for summary judgment on October 11, 2023. Defendants move for summary
judgment as to the main action on the grounds that: (1) no triable issues of
material fact exist; and (2) Defendants
are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Plaintiffs filed an opposition on December 14,
2023. The motion was subsequently continued from December 14, 2023 to February
2, 2024. Defendants submitted a reply on January 26, 2024; including a reply to
Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Separate Statement. Plaintiffs then responded to
the reply on January 29, 2024.
          The hearing on this motion was further
continued from February 2, 2024 to February 6, 2024, and then to March 15,
2024. The hearing on March 15, 2024 was continued to March 28, 2024, to allow
for the completed deposition of non-party witness Saveza Landers.[1]
Both Plaintiffs and the Go RN Defendants submitted additional briefing on March
25 and 26, 2024. 
          For the reasons that follow, the
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The
motion for summary adjudication as to the survival cause of action is GRANTED. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
          Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs request that the
Court take judicial notice of information published on the Centers for Disease
Control’s website. “Simply because
information is on the Internet does not mean that it is not reasonably subject
to dispute.” (Huitt v. Southern California Gas Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1586, 1605 fn. 10.) The Court declines to take judicial
notice of information published on the website, as it is subject to change and
therefore may be subject to dispute. 
(See Evid. Code Section 452(h).)
          Accordingly, the request for judicial notice is declined. 
 
III. EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
          Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections
          To the extent that Plaintiffs are asserting evidentiary
objections to Defendants’ separate statement of undisputed facts, (1) it is
unclear what evidence Plaintiffs are objecting to; and (2) the objections are
not in the proper form. (CRC §
3.1354(b).)
          Accordingly, the Court declines to consider Plaintiffs’
improperly formatted evidentiary objections. 
 
          Defendants’ evidentiary objections to Landers Declaration
(1):
The following objections are
overruled: 1.
The following objections are
sustained: none.
Defendants’
evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice (1):
The following objections are
overruled: none.
The following objections are
sustained: 2.[2]
          Defendants’ evidentiary objections to Declaration
of Stephen L. Nelson, M.D
 (5):
The following objections are
overruled: 3 (permissible expert opinion), 5 (permissible  expert opinion) 
The following objections are
sustained: 4, 6, 7.
 
IV.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Summary judgment is appropriately granted where it is shown
that an action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(a).) A cause of action has no merit if one of the following
exists: (1) one or more necessary elements cannot be established; (2) a
defendant establishes an affirmative defense. (CCP § 437c(o).)
The moving party bears the
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.¿ (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)¿ A defendant moving for summary judgment must show
either: (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.¿
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p).)
          A motion for summary judgment should be granted where all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue of material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (CCP § 437c(c).)
 
 
V.       MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
A.
Procedural Considerations
          Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b), If summary adjudication is sought, the
specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of
duty must be stated “specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (CRC 3.1350(b).)
          Here are the issues identified in the Defendants’ Notice: Plaintiffs
(1) cannot establish a prima facie case of wrongful death by Defendants because
Plaintiffs cannot support each element, (2) Plaintiffs cannot establish a prima
facie case for negligence by Defendants because Plaintiffs cannot support each
element, (3) Plaintiffs cannot establish a prima facie case for a Survival
Action because Plaintiffs cannot support each element, and because Decedent suffered
no economic damages, (4) Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages under the
Survival Action because Powell did not suffer any economic loss before his
death; and even if Powell had suffered an economic loss, Plaintiffs fail to
show malice, oppression, or fraud by Defendants, (5) Plaintiffs cannot
establish a prima facie case for Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision as
a matter of law, and (6) noneconomic damages are capped by the Medical Injury
Compensation Reform Act (MICRA) as this is a cause of action for professional
negligence against a medical services provider. (Motion p. 2:19- p. 3: 20.) 
 
          B. Analysis
          i. Undisputed Facts
          Here, it is undisputed that Project Roomkey was a housing
initiative furnishing motel rooms to homeless individuals during the COVID-19
pandemic (Defendants’ UMFs 1, 2), Defendant First To Serve operated as site
coordinator for Project Roomkey at the Vagabond Inn in Glendale, California
(UMF 3); and Defendant Go RN was contracted by the Los Angeles Housing
Authority to provide nursing services at the Vagabond Inn. (UMF 4, 5.)  Go RN scheduled one registered nurse (RN) and
one certified nursing assistant (CNA) for each day shift. The RN and CNA
performed temperature checks and symptom surveys on the residents of the
Vagabond Inn. (UMFs 6, 7.) 
Decedent
Kevin Powell was a resident at the Vagabond until his death.  He had a working cell phone and hotel phone
in his room. (UMFs 8-11.) Defendants Lizzet Yeo and Olivia Cobain were on duty
the morning of Powell’s death.  Ms. Yeo was
the CNA on duty and Ms. Cobain was the RN on duty. (UMF 12). 
It
is also undisputed that sometime before breakfast the morning of Mr. Powell’s
death, Ms. Saveza Landers, who had the room next to Mr. Powell, notified staff
that Mr. Powell should be checked on. (UMFs 13, 14.) While walking to Mr.
Powell’s room, Ms. Landers informed Ms. Yeo, the CNA on duty, that she believed
Mr. Powell had recently suffered from seizures. (UMF 15.) When they arrived at
the room, Mr. Powell did not respond; Ms. Yeo then used the master key and
opened the door to find Mr. Powell on the toilet. She asked if he was okay, and
he told her he was fine. (UMFs 16-19.) Ms. Yeo believed Powell was okay. (UMF
20.)
Ms.
Yeo returned to the nurse’s station and reported what occurred to the RN on
duty, Ms. Cobain. (UMFs 20-22.) When Ms. Cobain delivered breakfast to the
residents’ rooms, she checked on Powell. (UMF 23-25.) She asked Powell if he
had had a seizure; he did not respond. (UMF 26.) She asked Powell if he needed
assistance, and he said he did not. (UMF 27.) She then performed a COVID-19
temperature check, symptom survey, and general wellness check. (UMFs 28, 31.)
She asked if Powell wanted her to call emergency services, and he said no. (UMFs
29, 30.)
Ms.
Cobain did not smell urine or fecal matter (possible indications that a seizure
had occurred).  Powell did not mention he
was in pain; and he did not appear to be in medical distress. (UMFs 32-34.) 
Later
that morning, Ms. Yeo and Ms. Cobain were informed by a First to Serve staff
member that Powell had been found unresponsive in his room. (UMF 35.) LeKendrick
Richards then called 911 and Ms. Cobain spoke on the phone to emergency
personnel. (UMFs 36-38.) EMS personnel arrived and pronounced Powell deceased.
(UMFs 39-41.) His cause of death was determined to be due to an epileptic
seizure. (UMF 42.)
Ms.
Cobain and Ms. Yeo, the on-duty nurses, did not observe Powell seizing; nor did
he report any prior seizures. (UMF 44.)
Plaintiffs
submitted additional material facts with their opposition (hereinafter “PAMF”);
including that Project Roomkey was designed to house homeless individuals more
susceptible to COVID-19 (PAMF 2); and that the nurses were responsible for
coordinating the care of the residents. (PAMF 3, 4.)
Plaintiffs
submitted a supplemental separate statement after the second session of Ms.
Landers’ deposition (hereinafter “Plaintiffs’ SSUMF”).  Plaintiffs note that Ms. Landers testified
that the noises she heard the morning of Powell’s death were abnormal
(Plaintiffs SSUMF 3, 4); and that she checked on Powell twice. (SSUMF 5) She
then went to the employee lounge and attempted to get help (SSUMF 6); but she became
agitated at the lack of response she got from the staff.  (SSUMF 8-10.) Ms. Landers grew tired from repeatedly
checking on Powell, and went back to bed. (SSUMF 11, 12.) She then asked
another resident, Francis, to watch out for Powell. (SSUMF 12.) When she woke
up, Powell was dead. (SSUMF 13.)  Landers
thought calling 911 was the nurses’ responsibility. (SSUMF 14, 15.)
          ii. Wrongful Death
The
elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are: 1) negligence or some wrongful
act, 2) a resulting death, and 3) damages (consisting of the pecuniary loss
suffered by the heirs of the decedent).  (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)  Defendants urge
that there was no negligence on their part; and second, that there was no
pecuniary loss to Powell’s heirs, as he did not financially support them.
(Motion p. 16: 12.) The discussion concerning negligence is contained in
Section B.iii. below.  
Defendants
cite Government Code Section 8659 for the proposition that, during a state of
emergency, a medical services provider, such as a nurse, cannot be held liable
for injuries sustained by a patient as a result of those services. (GC §
8659(a).) Here, Defendants argue that they rendered services to Powell and
other residents at   the Vagabond Inn during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Per California mandates and the declaration of the Governor of California, the
COVID-19 pandemic was deemed to have created a state of emergency at the time
Powell suffered the epileptic seizure, and Defendants rendered services.  (See UMFs 1, 51; Bullock v. Superior Ct.
of Contra Costa Cnty.(2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 134, 141 [acknowledging COVID-19
was declared a state of emergency in California.]) Government Code Section 8659
applies “regardless of how or under what circumstances or by what cause those
injuries are sustained; provided, however, that the immunity herein granted
shall not apply in the event of a willful act or omission.” (GC § 8659(a).) 
The
Court disagrees with Defendants that Government Code Section 8659 clearly provides
them with immunity in the context of this case. 
A significant question exists as to the scope of the “emergency”
presented in this case.
Defendants
also urge that the damages element is not met under this cause of action. Damages
for wrongful death in California include: (1) the financial support the heirs
were receiving at the time of death from the decedent, (2) reasonable future
financial support expected from the decedent had he/she/they lived, (3) the
monetary value of loss of companionship and protection. (See CCP §§ 377.61,
377.34; Boeken v. Philip Morris USA Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 992,
997.)  Defendants point out that here, Powell
did not have custody of any of his children (UMFs 46-47); that there was no in-person
communication with the children in recent years (UMFs 48-49); and he did not
provide any financial support to them. (UMF 50.) However, wrongful death
damages also include the monetary value of companionship.  
In
their opposition, Plaintiffs urge that they have adequately demonstrated a
triable issue of reasonable future financial support. (Opposition p. 24:
21-24.) Specifically, they urge that UMF 50, where they provided their response
as follows: “Defendants’ claims that decedent did not or could not provide for
children financially simply because of his being in transitional housing is
unfounded, as decedent was seeking to resume his career in the music industry
immediately before his passing.” (Response to Separate Statement p. 38.). With
regard to the issue of companionship, Plaintiffs have presented evidence that
Powell posted on social media about his kids, and had spoken to the mothers of
his children about being more involved in his children’s lives. (See Response
to Separate Statement p. 37.)
While
the amount of wrongful death damages in this case might not be significant, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have adequately demonstrated a triable issue of
material fact as to the damages issue. 
          iii. Negligence
                     a. General Negligence versus Medical Negligence
Here,
there is a preliminary issue whether the Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
negligence is founded upon a claim of medical negligence, or general
negligence. The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice (i.e., medical
negligence) are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the
duty; (3) a proximate or causal connection between the negligent conduct and
the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator
Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.) “In professional
malpractice cases, expert opinion testimony is required to prove or disprove
that the defendant performed in accordance with the prevailing standard of
care, except in cases where the negligence is obvious to laymen.” (Garibay
v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735, 742.) When a defendant moves for
summary judgment in a medical negligence case and supports his motion with
expert declarations that they complied with the professional standard of care,
the defendant is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff presents
conflicting expert testimony. (Munro v. Regents of the Univ. of Calif. (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
Here,
in contrast, Plaintiffs argue that they are seeking to hold Defendants Go RN
and their two nurses, Ms. Yeo and Ms. Cobain, liable under a theory of general
negligence   for failing to summon emergency assistance
when placed on notice that Powell was in medical distress.  Thus, the Declaration of Plaintiff’s witness
Dr. Stephen Nelson does not need to satisfy the test for admissibility of a
medical expert in a malpractice case.[3]   
b. Ms. Landers’ Further March 21, 2024 Deposition
          The Court continued the hearing on this motion to allow for
Ms. Landers’ deposition to be completed. 
In her March 21, 2024 deposition, Ms. Landers testified that she first
met Powell in November of 2020, when he moved into the hotel room next to hers
at the Vagabond Inn. (Landers Deposition p. 6:20.) She testified that after Powell
moved in, she would occasionally hear noises coming from his room that she
learned to associate with his seizures. (Landers Deposition p. 20: 24.) She
would hear groaning, and Powell’s  bed
moving or shaking. (Landers Deposition p. 21:6-12.) She heard these noises most
nights; and the noises typically would be in a singular period of time and then
it would be silent. ((Landers Deposition p. 22:18-24.) She testifies that she
had knocked on his door several times in the two months they lived next to each
other, and he often said he was okay. (Landers Deposition p. 26:11-p.27:13.)
          Landers testifies that she believed it was the nurses’
responsibility to give out residents’ medications. (Landers Deposition p.
29:11-14.) However, she also testified that she never saw nurses handing out
medications; or any other staff members handing out medications. (Landers
Deposition p. 31:11-19.) She also testified that the residents’ doors at the
Vagabond Inn did not indicate to the nurses or other staff if the person inside
had medical issues. (Id. at p. 121:10-14.)
          On the day Powell died, Ms. Landers testified that it was
her understanding that calling 911 was the nurses’ responsibility, not hers.
(Landers Deposition p. 42: 18-25) She also testified that she didn’t think Powell’s
first seizures on the day that he died were “that bad.” (Landers Deposition p.
43:5-7.) However, she testified that the seizures grew progressively worse, and
so she became concerned. (Landers Deposition p. 45.)
          She testifies that she was awakened by the noises Powell was
making (Landers Deposition p. 52: 19-25); that she went over to check on him,
and he answered the door and told her he was fine. (Landers Deposition p.
54:13-20.) She checked in on him a second time, about half an hour after the
first, after hearing more noises.  Powell
was laying down. When she went into his room the second time, he tried to “mumble
don’t get help but I don’t think he knew the severity of the seizure he had or
was having.” (Landers Deposition p. 50: 7-9.) After the second visit, Ms.
Landers went to the employees’ lounge to contact the nurses or other staff
members. (Id. at p. 60: 16-24.)
          She testified that she doesn’t remember if the nurses were present
in the employee lounge when she first went to notify someone that Powell was
having seizures. (Id. at p. 68:3-11.) She testified that she is unsure
who was in the lounge at that time; but four or five people were there. (Id.
at p. 124:16-21, p. 129: 6-23.) She testified that after going to the
employee lounge and requesting that someone check in on Mr. Powell, she asked
another resident, Ms. Francis Ghodsi, to check in on Decedent so she could
sleep. (Id. at p. 71:4-11.) She testified that she visited the lounge
once more to request help, spoke to Ms. Ghodsi again, and then woke up, after a
“dead sleep.”  Mr. Powell had died in the
interim  (Id. at p. 73: 9-20.)  Landers did not witness the EMS providers
attempting to treat Mr. Powell. (Id. at p. 90: 13.) 
          In their supplemental brief, Defendants urge that Ms.
Landers’ additional testimony does not create a triable issue of material fact
as to whether there was, among other things, any special relationship between
Defendants and Mr. Powell that would give rise to an affirmative duty to act.
(Defendants’ Brief p. 4: 4-6.) Defendants argue that Ms. Landers did not know
the specific roles or duties the nurses performed; and she did not recall
whether a nurse was in the employee lounge when she sought help for Mr. Powell.
(Defendants’ Brief p. 4: 22-24.) Defendants also cite to Ms. Landers’ testimony
that she was in a “dead sleep” after her last visit to the employee lounge.
Defendants urge that it is speculative, based on Ms. Landers’ testimony, as to what
she knew about whether any  nurse had
checked on Mr. Powell. (Defendants’ Brief p. 5:1-10.) Defendants cite Ms.
Cobain’s undisputed testimony that she checked on Mr. Powell and determined
that he was okay. (UMF 24-31.) 
          In their supplemental brief, Plaintiffs urge that Ms.
Landers’ testimony creates a triable issue of material fact as to whether the
nurses were negligent in not calling 911. (Plaintiffs’ Brief p. 5: 20-23.)
Plaintiffs also urge that the testimony creates a triable issue of material
fact as to whether the Defendants were indifferent and therefore grossly
negligent.  (Plaintiffs’ Brief p. 6: 15-22.)
 Plaintiffs urge that indifference in
this context can be actionable as gross negligence. (See City of Santa
Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754; Chavez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640.)
The
Court considers the impact of Ms. Landers’ deposition and the arguments each
side raised in analyzing this motion.[4] 
A negligence cause of action requires: duty, breach
of the duty, causation, and damages. (Antiglio v. Corning, Inc. (1998)
Cal.4th 604,614.) In general, one does not owe an affirmative duty to act
unless a “special relationship” exists between the defendant and plaintiff.
Special relationships include parent-child, doctor-patient, common-carriers,
and innkeepers. (Ericson v. Federal Express Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th
1291, 1300.)
          Defendants urge that they did not have a special
relationship with Powell. (UMFs 5-7.) Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs
cannot assert a duty of care under a theory of “negligent undertaking.” (Motion
p. 18: 14-15.) A duty of care under a negligent undertaking theory requires: (1)
someone began to render aid to another, (2) the services were of a type
reasonably necessary to the person receiving them, and (3) the harm was
suffered because of reliance on the services, or the provider carelessly
increased the risk of harm. (Peredia v. HRMobile Services, Inc. (2018)
25 Cal.App.5th 680, 691.) Specifically, Defendants urge that they did not
increase the risk of Powell dying. In support, Defendants cite case law for the
proposition that failing to reduce harm is not the same as increasing
harm. (Paz v. State of California (2000) 22 Cal.4th 550, 560;
Greyhound Lines, Inc. v. Dep't of California Highway Patrol (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 1129, 1136-1137.) Here, Powell apparently told Defendants he was
fine and declined their offers to call 911. (UMF 18-20, 27.)
          Defendants further urge that even assuming they had a duty
of care, that duty was not breached because: (1) Powell exercised his right to
refuse medical care; and (2) they acted with reasonable care. (Motion p. 19:
16- p. 21: 5.) Citing Thor v. Superior Court, Defendants urge that they
cannot be held liable for respecting an individual’s wish to refuse medical
treatment. (See Thor v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 725, 732.) Specifically,
“Once a patient has declined further medical intervention, [a] physician’s duty
to provide such care ceases.” (Thor, supra, at 744.) Defendants also
urge that there is no evidence that they failed to act with reasonable care,
citing Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. for the proposition that if no
reasonable jury could find that defendants violated their duty of care, defendants
did not breach their duty as a matter of law. (Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2011) 51 Cal. 4th 764, 773.) Here, Defendants asked Powell if he was okay (UMFs
18-19), checked on him a second time and each time he said he was fine (UMFs 19,
20, 25-27.) 
          Next, Defendants urge that they are not the proximate cause
of Powell’s death, as his official cause of death was an epileptic seizure. Specifically,
defendants urge “[w]hether contacting emergency services would have prevented
Powell’s death is pure speculation.” (Motion, p. 23: 8-9.) In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege that the failure/delay in calling emergency services caused Powell to
expire.  In the Court’s view, causation
is, fundamentally, a question of fact for the jury.   
          In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that a special relationship
did exist between Defendants and Powell. (Opposition p. 15: 19-23.) Plaintiffs
cite Marois v. Royal for the proposition that a third party hired by an owner/landlord
to perform a certain duty is responsible for carrying that duty out reasonably.
(Marois v. Royal (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 193, 199-200. [security guard].)
Plaintiffs cite the Statement of Work for Nurse Services, the agreement between
First to Serve and Go RN, as to the services Go RN agreed to. (Plaintiff’s
Compendium of Evidence, Exh 12: p. 181 ¶ 3, Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Facts 2, 3, 4.) Per the Statement of Work, Go RN agreed to provide: COVID-19
screening, initial health assessment, follow-up health assessments, wound care,
care coordination, education about COVID-19 and biohazard disposal. (Exh. 12 at
p. 181-p.183.) Go RN would be providing these services to persons deemed more
susceptible to COVID-19, including people with “Neurological, neurologic, and
neurodevelopment conditions, including disorders of the brain, spinal
cord, peripheral nerve, and muscle such as cerebral palsy, epilepsy
(seizure disorders).” (PAMF 2, emphasis added.) 
Indeed, the Statement of
Work also directs Go RN to “direct all nursing activities to support the
wellbeing and to meet the needs of participants served on site.” (PAMF 4.) The
policies and procedures of Project Roomkey direct healthcare professionals
contracted with the program to, “in case of medical emergencies, triage PRK-IH
participants, staff and vendors to appropriate healthcare intervention.” (PAMF
5.) 
          The Court finds that Plaintiffs have adequately
demonstrated a triable issue of material fact as to whether a special
relationship existed between the Go RN Defendants and Mr. Powell.  Additionally, triable issues exist as to
whether the Defendants breached the applicable duty of care; and whether such
negligence was the proximate cause of Powell’s death. 
          iv. Survival Statute
          Defendants urge
that the cause of action for survival fails as a matter of law as the
underlying cause of action for negligence fails. (Motion p. 26: 18.) As set
forth above, the Court disagrees with this argument.
          Secondly, Defendants urge that this cause of action fails
as Plaintiffs cannot demonstrate any economic loss that is compensable under a survival
action. In support, Defendants cite County of LA v. Superior Court for
the proposition that California’s survival statutes “preclude[] the estate from
obtaining any damages for the plaintiff’s pain and suffering.” (Cnty. of Los
Angeles v. Superior Ct. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 292, 294-295.) The complaint
seeks to recover Powell’s pain and suffering under this cause of action, not
his lost wages or other allowed measures. This argument is well-taken. 
          Lastly, Defendants urge that Powell’s estate cannot seek
punitive damages as punitive damages must be predicated on economic damages and
cannot be awarded on their own. This argument is also well-taken. (CC § 3294.)
          Plaintiffs do not directly address the economic loss issue
under this cause of action; or the problem presented with the lack of economic
damages upon the punitive damages claim. 
 
          Accordingly, summary
adjudication is granted as to Tewitt Powell’s survival action.
          vi. Negligent Hiring, Training Supervision
“To
establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a
supervisorial position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor’s
propensity to do the bad act.” (Alexander v. Cmty. Hosp. of Long Beach
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 238, 264, internal citations omitted.) 
Here,
Defendants urge that the cause of action for negligent hiring, training or
supervision fails because prior knowledge is not alleged. They urge that the
complaint does not allege, assuming that the individual Defendants Lizzet and
Olivia did something wrong, that their employer Go RN LLC knew of their
propensity to do that wrong prior to it happening. 
In
opposition, plaintiffs urge by virtue of the agreement between First to Serve
and Go RN identifying individuals with epilepsy, Go RN had a duty to help those
individuals with epilepsy specifically and by virtue of not training their
employees on how to help someone with epilepsy, Go RN is liable for negligent
training, hiring or supervision. (Opposition p. 18: 1-7.) Plaintiffs urge “The
SOW executed by GORN specifically identifies persons suffering from epilepsy as
a disease with which it must have training and experience to fulfill its duties
and obligations under the contract.” (Opposition p. 18: 4-6.) However, this is
not entirely accurate; the section of the agreement that identifies individuals
with epilepsy relates to their eligibility for Project Roomkey, not that the
nursing staff hired for Project Roomkey must specifically know how to treat
individuals with epilepsy. (Plaintiff’s Compendium of
Evidence, Exh 12: p. 180 ¶ IV(1).) 
Plaintiffs
also argue that, due to the variety of conditions of eligible persons and the
fact that these persons were medically fragile/susceptible to COVID-19, Go RN
should have had a policy in place in case of medical emergency. (Opposition, p.
18: 19-20.) In support, plaintiffs cite deposition testimony and discovery
responses of Defendants Olivia Cobain and Lizzet Yeo, who both speak to a lack
of policies and procedures in general, as well as a lack of clear guidance as
to what to do in a medical emergency. (See e.g., Plaintiff’s Compendium of
Evidence, Exh 2 p. 118: 1-3.) Plaintiffs also cite the declaration of their
medical expert, Dr. Stephen Nelson, for the proposition that the proper
procedure for seizures is to immediately call 911. (Nelson Decl. ¶ 10.) Indeed, the Statement of Work  directs Go RN to “direct all nursing
activities to support the wellbeing and to meet the needs of participants
served on site.” (PAMF 4.) The policies and procedures of Project Roomkey
directs healthcare professionals contracted with the program to “in case of
medical emergencies, triage PRK-IH participants, staff and vendors to
appropriate healthcare intervention.” (PAMF 5.)
In
reply, Defendants urge that Go RN was contracted to prevent the spread of
COVID-19. Defendants cite the Statement of Work in support:  “should a participant require a higher level
of care such as nursing care [or] hospital care,” Go RN would “coordinat[e]
with the onsite service provider.” (Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence, Exh.
12: p. 183, item 3.6.6.) The Statement of Work provides that the purpose of the
program was to “combat the spread of COVID-19 and address the needs of the most
vulnerable in the community[.]” (Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence, Exh 12: p.
180 ¶ 1.) It sets out seven duties for Go RN, as a nursing contractor: (1)
COVID-19 screenings, (2) initial health assessments, (3) follow up health
assessments, (4) participant education, (5) wound care, (6) coordination of
care and (7) biohazard disposal. (Id. at p. 180-p.183.) It does not
contain a specific requirement as to how to respond to medical emergencies related
to epilepsy. (See Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224,
249, internal citations omitted; see also Reply p. 5: 11-18.) However, it does contain
a requirement for “appropriate healthcare intervention” in case of medical
emergency generally. (PAMF 5.) Additionally, Ms. Landers testified that it was
her understanding that calling 911 was the nurse’s responsibility. (Landers
Deposition p. 42: 18-25.)
The
Court finds that the Plaintiffs have raised triable issues of material fact as
to whether the nurses were adequately trained to deal with medical emergencies.   
          
VI.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. The motion for summary adjudication as to the
survival cause of action is granted.   
Counsel
for Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
          
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 


