 Case Number:  22AHCV00114    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VIOLETA MARTIN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DONALD
   RANCE WELCH, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22ahcv00114
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR) ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS OF
   FACT BY DEFENDANT SARA WELCH
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   28, 2024



 
On January 24, 2024, plaintiff Violeta
Martin (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for an order compelling defendant Welch
Law & Associates (“Defendant”) to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Request
for Production, Set One, and Request for Form Interrogatories – General, Set
One. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions. 
Plaintiff claims that Defendant was
served with the discovery requests on September 22, 2023. Plaintiff refers to a
Declaration of Juan F. Dotson, which was filed on February 28, 2024. Mr. Dotson
declares that his office served the discovery requests on Defendant through
counsel, Chris Prussak at the Law Offices of Prussak, Welch & Avila. Mr.
Prussak filed an answer on June 14, 2022, stating that he was the attorney for
Defendant. Mr. Prussak did not include Defendant in his motion to be relieved
or his declaration; instead, Mr. Prussak only requested to be relieved as
counsel of record for Sara Welch, Rance Welch, and Welch Law Firm on the
grounds that he had never been retained.
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
Defendant did not oppose the motion and
it is undisputed that Defendant did not serve discovery responses. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to serve verified
responses without objections within 20 days of this Order. 
However, a “request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought.  The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) Here, Plaintiff only requests that the
Court “award[] Plaintiff sanctions in the amount of $143.91” without
identifying against whom the sanction is sought. Therefore, the request for
sanctions is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 29th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances
at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the
final order or place the motion off calendar.
 