 Case Number:  23AHCV01932    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GARY SMITH, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01932
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S DEMURRR WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   29, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On August 23,
2023, plaintiff Gary Smith (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) arising from his purchase of a 2020 Chevrolet
Bolt EV (“Vehicle”).
On November
20, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant demurs
to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for fraud and misrepresentation, second
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, and third cause of action for
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (the
“UCL”). Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s demands for punitive damages in
the Complaint’s prayer for relief. 
On March 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. 
On March 13,
2024, Defendant filed its reply briefs. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to
support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
First, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation fails
because Plaintiff did not identify the alleged misrepresentations, the
individual who made those alleged misrepresentations and their authority to do
so on Defendant’s behalf, and when, where, and how those alleged
misrepresentations were made. 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the rule of specificity does not apply to claims
for fraudulent concealment. “The requirement of specificity is relaxed when the
allegations indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily possess full
information concerning the facts of the controversy.” (Tarmann v. State Farm
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 58.) Here, Plaintiff’s fraud claim is partly based on
concealment because Plaintiff alleges that “[Defendant] concealed, suppressed
and/or omitted material facts” about the Vehicle’s defective high voltage
battery pack and inability to travel 259 miles on a single charge. (Compl.¶¶ 8,
30.) It is true that Plaintiff alleges that Defendant made affirmative
misrepresentations regarding the Vehicle’s battery and mileage range, but
Plaintiff sufficiently pleads a theory of liability for fraudulent concealment
and a demurrer does not lie as to only a portion of a cause of action. 
The Court additionally notes that
Defendant raises more than four new arguments in its reply brief regarding the
duty to disclose, whether Defendant possessed exclusive knowledge of any
material fact, Defendant’s intent to defraud, and Plaintiff’s damages. Because
these arguments were raised for the first time on reply, the Court disregards
these arguments.  
          Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation fails because Plaintiff did not allege that Defendant made
any representations about the Vehicle. The second cause of action does not
appear to be based on concealment. (Compl., ¶ 44.) Instead, Plaintiff alleges
that he “met with the salesperson who was authorized to speak on behalf of
[Defendant] with respect to the Chevrolet vehicles the dealership was selling”
and that the salesperson made oral statements which “reiterated the written
representations [Defendant] made in its advertisements and publications”
regarding the 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV, including its ability to travel 259 on a
single charge and be charged indoors at Plaintiff’s home. (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff refers to affirmative misrepresentations in the form of oral
statements from Defendant’s “authorized salesperson” and marketing material,
but fails to identify the particular salesperson he spoke with, any specific
marketing materials he saw and relied on, or when he saw those materials. 
          Accordingly, the
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
          Last, the
Court addresses Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s claim for violation of the
UCL. By prohibiting any unlawful business practice, the UCL “borrows”
violations of other laws (such as the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“SBA”), which Defendant does not demur to) and treats such violations as
independently actionable. (Collins v. EMachines, Inc. (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 249, 258) [“Our conclusion that the complaint states a CLRA
violation means the complaint states a UCL violation as well, under the UCL’s
“unlawful” prong.”]) “There are innumerable ways in which economic injury from
unfair competition may be shown. A plaintiff may (1) surrender in a transaction
more, or acquire in a transaction less, than he or she otherwise would have;
(2) have a present or future property interest diminished; (3) be deprived of
money or property to which he or she has a cognizable claim; or (4) be required
to enter into a transaction, costing money or property, that would otherwise
have been unnecessary.” (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2011) 51 Cal.
4th 310, 323.)
          Defendant argues
that Plaintiff did not allege any “unlawful” conduct because Plaintiff fails to
state a claim for fraud. As discussed above, Plaintiff sufficiently pleads a
claim for fraudulent concealment; also, Defendant did not challenge Plaintiff’s
claim based on the SBA. Furthermore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges standing and
a basis for equitable relief (i.e., restitution) because Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s unfair business practices caused Plaintiff to purchase the Vehicle,
which did not have the attributes that Plaintiff believed it had. Therefore,
Plaintiff allegedly acquired less than what he otherwise would have, such as a
car with a battery that could be driven at least 250 miles on a single charge. The
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Because the Court finds that Plaintiff
sufficiently pleads a claim for fraudulent concealment, the motion to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is DENIED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the First and
Third Causes of Action is OVERRULED. 
Defendant’s demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.

Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 29th
day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 