  Case Number:  19STCV34550    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





HANS
  H. KIM, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,                                  
            vs.                                                        
  
 
CUIL INVESTMENTS LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCV34550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT MAGIC
  PROPERTIES, INC.’S FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
MOTION FOR ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS
  AND FOR SANCTIONS 
 
 
Date: June 27, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
Defendant Magic Properties, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiffs Hans Kim and Aqua Wetclean
LLC
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises out of a commercial lease dispute.  On September 8, 2020, Plaintiffs Hans Kim and
Aqua Wetclean LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint against Defendants Cuil Investments LLC; Jane’s Management
Systems, LLC; Magic Properties, Inc. (“MPI”); David Yoo; Xiang Hao Cui; John
Ko; and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of
the Covenant of Repair; (3) Contractual Abatement of Rent; (4) Fraud and
Deceit; (5) Fraudulent Concealment; (6) Conspiracy to Defraud; (7) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (8) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (9) Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (10) Unfair Business Practices. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
ONE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
The Court
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  “The court shall impose a monetary
sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Here, MPI
served Special Interrogatories (“SIs”) and Form Interrogatories (“FIs”), along
with other discovery requests, upon Plaintiff on February 1, 2021.  (Declaration of Chad C. Wilcox in support of Motion
to Compel Responses to SIs and FIs (“Wilcox SIs/FIs Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiffs did not serve responses to the SIs
and FIs as of the date of filing of this motion on March 25, 2024.  (Wilcox SIs/FIs Decl., ¶ 3.)  MPI now moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs
to serve responses to the SIs and FIs.  MPI
also seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,980 for costs incurred in
bringing this motion.  
 
On June 13,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion.  They contend in their opposition that they
served responses to the SIs and FIs on June 13, 2024, and that accordingly, the
motion is moot.  Plaintiffs filed the Declaration
of Tatiana Ingman in support of their opposition to MPI’s motion (“Ingman
Declaration”), and attached thereto the purported discovery responses.  The Court notes that the Ingman Declaration bears
no date and signature of the declarant.  However, the Court also notes that in the reply filed by MPI on June 20,
2024, MPI does not dispute, and in fact, acknowledges that Plaintiffs finally served
responses to the discovery requests. 
 
Nevertheless, the question of sanctions still
remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the
trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].” (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the
untimely response “does not contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s]
the issues raised by a motion to compel responses…the trial court retains the
authority to hear the motion.” (Id., at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important incentive for
parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.” (Id., at p. 408.)
If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off calendar or narrow its
scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial court may “deny the motion to
compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just
impose sanctions.” (Id. at p. 409; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348, subd. (a) [“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in
favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition
to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the
requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed”].)  
 
In their opposition, Plaintiffs cite various circumstances
that purportedly caused delay in serving discovery responses to MPI’s discovery
requests, such as changes in counsel representation on both sides, and contend
that none of the reasons is attributable to Plaintiffs’ refusal to respond.  Plaintiffs, however, acknowledge that MPI
re-served the discovery requests at issue on March 13, 2023.  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 5.)  Therefore, it has been more than a year since
Plaintiffs’ present counsel had been made aware of the outstanding discovery
responses.  Plaintiffs’ references to
discovery requests and responses other than those that are the subject of the
present motion are irrelevant.  Thus, the
Court finds no substantial justification for the delay.  The Court considers the amount requested by
MPI as monetary sanctions to be reasonable.
 
Accordingly, MPI’s motion to compel responses to the SIs and FIs is
Moot, except as to the request for sanctions. 
If MPI contends that the responses are not complete or Code-compliant, MPI
has forty-five days from the date of the hearing on this motion to file a
separate Motion to Compel Further Responses. 

Plaintiffs are ordered to pay $1,980 in monetary sanctions to MPI within 30 days of the date of this Order.
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS AND FOR SANCTIONS
The Court
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  
 
Here, MPI
served Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), along with other discovery requests, upon
Plaintiff on February 1, 2021.  (Declaration
of Chad C. Wilcox in support of Motion for an Order Establishing Admissions
(“Wilcox RFAs Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  Plaintiffs
did not serve responses to the SIs and FIs as of the date of filing of this
motion on March 25, 2024.  (Wilcox RFAs Decl.,
¶ 3.)  MPI now moves for an order deeming
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
RFAs as admitted.  MPI also seeks
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,820 for costs incurred in bringing this
motion.
 
On June 13,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion.  They contend in their opposition that they
served responses to the RFAs on June 13, 2024, and that accordingly, the motion
is moot.  Plaintiffs filed the same undated
and unsigned Ingman Declaration in support of their opposition to MPI’s motion,
and attached therewith the purported discovery responses. However, the Court notes that in the reply filed by MPI on June 20, 2024,
MPI does not dispute, and in fact, acknowledges that Plaintiffs finally served
responses to the discovery requests. 
 
As in their
opposition to MPI’s motion to compel responses to the SIs and FIs, Plaintiffs
also cite the same reasons as grounds to seek denial of monetary sanctions.  As set forth above, notwithstanding the
untimely responses, the question of sanctions still remains before the
Court.  Similarly, the Court finds no substantial
justification for Plaintiffs’ delay in responding to the RFAs.  The Court also considers the amount requested
by MPI as monetary sanctions to be reasonable.
 
Accordingly,
MPI’s motion to compel responses to RFAs is DENIED as moot.  If MPI contends that the responses are not
complete or Code-compliant, MPI has forty-five days from the date of the
hearing on this motion to file a separate Motion to Compel Further
Responses.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to pay $1,820 in monetary sanctions to MPI within 30 days of the date of this Order.
 
MPI
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



