 Case Number:  24GDCV00309    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 24GDCV00309
Hearing Date:  04/18/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: EMY ESCOBAR LOPEZ, an individual; v.
THE VONS COMPANIES, INC., a Michigan corporation; SAFEWAY INC., a Delaware
corporation; AVIANA DOE, an individual; and DOES 1-100
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, The Vons Companies, Inc.
(erroneously sued as Safeway Inc.) moves the Court for an order striking the
following portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint:
1. Portions of
paragraph 32 of Plaintiff’s Complaint as set forth below: "so as to
justify an award of punitive damages against Defendants in an amount according
to proof,"
2. Portions of
paragraph 37 of Plaintiff’s Complaint as set forth below: "so as to
justify an award of exemplary or punitive damages against Defendants in an
amount according to proof at trial."
3. Portions of
paragraph 45 of Plaintiff’s Complaint as set forth below: "entitling
Plaintiff to recover punitive damages from the Defendants in an amount
sufficient to deter such conduct in the future and according to proof."
4. Paragraph 7 in
Plaintiff’s Prepare for Relief as follows: "For punitive and exemplary
damages in a sum to be determined at trial."
This motion to strike
is made pursuant to Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322, Code of Civil Procedure
§§425.10, 435, 435.5, 436, and 437, on the grounds that plaintiff’s complaint
does not contain allegations which adequately support plaintiff's prayer for
punitive damages as against any named defendant as a matter of law.”
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, The Vons Companies, Inc.
(erroneously sued as Safeway Inc.)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Emy Escobar Lopez
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition: Opposition
Reply: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Defendant’s counsel met
and conferred. (See Decl. Lewis ¶¶3-4.)
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) 
The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 436(b).)  
A motion to strike
cannot be based upon the grounds that a complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, but instead is properly based on
grounds of superfluous or abusive allegations, or improprieties in form or
procedure.  (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP § 431.10(a)-(c)
states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP § 431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendant moves to strike the punitive damages
requests in the assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendant also moves to
strike the punitive and exemplary damages request in ¶7 of the Prayer for
Relief.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege
specific facts to support an award of punitive damages against any named
Defendant in this matter.
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(a).)

“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).) 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights. (CCP § 3294(c)(2).) 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Here, Plaintiff has pled sufficient
facts at the pleading stage to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff
pled that Aviana (an alleged Vons employee/supervisor) followed Plaintiff to
her car, yelled at Plaintiff and accused her of trying to steal, called
Plaintiff a “dirty Latino stealing,” told Plaintiff she should be ashamed of
herself for using EBT, told Plaintiff that Vons is a store for people who have
money and not for bums using EBT, and that Plaintiff should go somewhere for “Spanish
people” because “Glendale is for Armenians and white people,” and that Aviana
spit on Plaintiff. (See Compl. ¶¶19-22.)
Those allegations are sufficient for a
jury to potentially find that the assault, battery, and intentional infliction
of emotional distress claims were committed with oppression or malice.
Defendant also argues that sufficient
allegations were not alleged against Vons because Vons is a corporate
defendant. Defendant cites to Civil Code § 3294(b) which states:
An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.
(Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
Here, Plaintiff alleged approval and ratification in ¶7 of the
Complaint:
Plaintiff
is informed and believes and thereon alleges, that at all times relevant herein,
Defendants and some of DOES 1 through 100 were the agents, employees, and/or
servants, masters, or employers of the remaining DOES 1 through 100, and in
doing the things herein alleged, were acting within the course and scope of
such agency or employment, and with the approval and ratification of each of
the other Defendants.
(Compl. ¶7.)
To the extent that the Reply argues that
Complaint only alleges that Aviana was only a supervisor, and does not allege
that Aviana was an officer, director, or managing agent of Vons, the Court does
not find this argument availing in light of Paragraph 8:
Plaintiff
is ignorant of the true names and capacities of Defendants sued herein as DOES
1 through 100, inclusive, and therefore Plaintiff sues these Defendants by such
fictitious names and capacities. Plaintiff will amend her Complaint to show
their true names and capacities when they have been ascertained. These DOE
Defendants held ownership, officer, director and/or executive positions with
the remaining Defendants, and acted on behalf of the remaining Defendants,
which included the wrongful acts engaged in by Defendants which have damaged
Plaintiff.
(Compl. ¶8.)
The Court
notes the following:
While it is
true that pleading conclusions of law does not fulfill this requirement,
it has long been recognized that ‘[t]he distinction between conclusions of law
and ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree.
[Citations.] For example, the courts have permitted allegations which obviously
included conclusions of law and have termed them “ultimate facts” or
“conclusions of fact.” ’ [Citations.] What is important is that the
complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts to apprise the defendant
of  the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief. [Citations.]''
(Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn.,
Inc. v. Truck Ins Ins. Exchange (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 1076, 1098-99 citing Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.