 Case Number:  23GDCV01036    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV01036
Hearing Date:  04/18/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ONIK KHODAVERDIAN v. MONTROSE GARDENS
APARTMENTS
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants, Jirair Krikor Kiladjian and Montbleu
Apartments, LLC (erroneously sued as Montrose Gardens Apartments), move this
Court for an order:
(1) Striking Jirair Krikor
Kiladjian from the Second Amendment Complaint. 
Defendants bring this
motion in accordance with the local rules and requirements. As set for more
fully in the moving papers, the facts giving rise to this motion support the
relief sought. 
This motion is based on
the Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities and Declaration of Cecilia
D. Torello, the Request for Judicial Notice, the papers and pleadings on file
in this matter, and on such other oral and documentary evidence as may be
presented in support of this motion.
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendants, Jirair Krikor Kiladjian and Montbleu
Apartments, LLC (erroneously sued as Montrose Gardens Apartments)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Onik Khodaverdian
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Request for Judicial Notice; Proposed Order
Before Opposition
Papers: Movants also submitted a Notice of Non-Opposition on 4/11/2024 about 27
minutes before Plaintiff submitted an Opposition. This notice of Non-Opposition
was presumably intended to be the Reply because the Reply was supposed to be due
on 4/11/2024.
Opposition: Untimely
Opposition filed on 4/11/2024; Vance Declaration also untimely submitted
Reply: No Reply as of
time of tentative
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Defendants’ counsel met
and conferred according to the Torello Declaration. (See Decl. Torello ¶8-9.)
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP § 431.10(a)-(c)
states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendants’ motion to strike Jirair Krikor Kiladjian
from the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) is GRANTED. 
On 1/26/2024, this Court ruled on Defendant’s demurrer
to the FAC. 
In relevant part, the Court stated in its tentative, “The
Court finds that the FAC as it stands should be sustained for failure to state
a cause of action and failure to provide the Court’s jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action. However, the Court finds that these
deficiencies may be cured by amendment.” (Min. Order 1/26/2024, p. 4.) 
Further, the Court noted that it sustained the
demurrer to the FAC with 20 days leave to amend, and that the Case Management
Conference is continued to 4/25/2024.
On 3/13/2024, Plaintiff filed the SAC. 
Defendants now argue that the Court should strike
Jirair Krikor Kiladjian from the SAC because when the Court provided leave to
amend the FAC on January 26, 2024, it did not provide leave to add new parties.
The Court finds Defendants’ argument availing. 
Defendants cited case law that supported their
position. “A new party may not be added to an action by an amended complaint
without permission of the court.” (Phoenix of Hartford Ins. Companies v.
Colony Kitchens (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 140, 147 citing Nissan v. Barton,
4 Cal.App.3d 76, 78 Karp v. Dunn, supra, 229 Cal.App.2d 192,
194; Taliaferro v. Davis, 220 Cal.App.2d 793, 795; Schaefer v. Berinstein, 140 Cal.App.2d
278, 299.)
“Leave of court is required under section 473 of the
Code of Civil Procedure to add new parties defendant. [Citations.]” (Taliaferro
v. Davis (1963) 220 Cal.App.2d 793, 795.)
In Opposition, the Plaintiff argues that at the
demurrer hearing on January 26, 2024, the Court granted the Plaintiff
permission to amend the complaint. Opposition further argues that Plaintiff’s
counsel informed the court verbally through the CMC Statement that Plaintiff
intended to amend and add an additional Party.
The Court does not find Opposition’s arguments
availing for several reasons. 
First, Opposition does not come forward with any
record or proof of what occurred at the hearing to support the position that
the Court granted leave to amend to add parties. All Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration states is, “I met and conferred with counsel and believe the court
did grant permission to make the changes in the Second Amended Complaint.”
(Vance Decl. ¶2.) However, the Court notes that all it has to go by is the
Minute Order, since neither party provided a transcript of what occurred at the
hearing. 
The 1/26/2024 Minute Order is silent as to adding new
parties. 
Further, to the extent that Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff’s counsel informed the court verbally and through the CMC Statement
that Plaintiff intended to amend and add an additional party, the Plaintiff
provides no case law or statute as to this being a proper ground to add a new
party. Further, the Court is unclear as to why Plaintiff is stating that the
CMC is relevant because the 1/26/2024 Minute Order states that the CMC is
continued to 4/25/2024.
Since Plaintiff provided no case law or statutes to
support its argument that it could add a new party in the manner that it did,
and since Defendants provided case law to support its argument that Plaintiff
cannot add a new party in the manner that Plaintiff did, the Court thus finds
Defendants’ arguments more persuasive.
The Court notes that Plaintiff explains that it
submitted its Opposition late because of a calendaring error because
Plaintiff’s counsel thought the motion to strike was to be heard on May 18,
2024 and not April 18, 2024.
In Opposition, Plaintiff notes that the instant
Opposition to this motion to strike is a notice of motion for leave to amend.
The Court does not find this argument availing, as the instant Opposition is an
Opposition to the motion to strike. The Court does not see a motion under CCP
§473(a) filed with the Court wherein Plaintiff is seeking leave to amend. “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (CCP § 473(a)(1).)
Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
 