 Case Number:  23AVCV01320    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiff
Debrah Brumfield French brings this suit (1) individually, and (2) as successor-in-interest
of behalf of Leeora Brumfield (“Decedent”), deceased. Herein after Plaintiff
Brumfield French, acting in both capacities, will be addressed as “Plaintiff.”
The Court makes this notation as the Complaint addresses both Plaintiff and
Decedent individually as “Plaintiffs.” (See Complaint 1:23-25 [“COMES NOW
Plaintiff, DEBRAH BRUMFIELD FRENCH, (‘FRENCH’ and/or [‘]PLAINTIFFS[’]) an
individual, and Plaintiff, DEBRAH BRUMFIELD, as Successor-In-Interest on behalf
of LEEORA BRUMFIELD, ("BRUMFIELD" and/or ‘PLAINTIFFS’). . .”].) 
 
Plaintiff alleges, that at all
times relevant to the Complaint, Decedent was an elder under Cal. Welf. &
Inst. Code §§ 15610.27 (see Complaint ¶ 4) and 15610.23 (see id. at ¶
19) and was a resident in the care and control of Defendant Premiere
Rehabilitation & Wellness Center of Lancaster, LP, doing business as The
Ellison John Transitional Care Center (“Defendant”). Plaintiff presents that Shane
Carlson (“Carlson”), not designated as a defendant, was the
manager/agent/director of Defendant and Ruby Grajeda-Oliver (“Grajeda-Oliver”),
not designated as a defendant, was the Director of Nursing from December 01,
2017 to present as well as a manager/agent/director of Defendant. Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendant was responsible for the care and custody of Decedent and
(1) violated Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §§ 15610 et sq. by its neglect,
physical abuse, and other treatment, or lack thereof, with resulting physical
harm and pain or mental suffering, and the deprivation by a care custodian of
goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering;
and (2) 15610.57 et seq. by failing to exercise that degree of care that
a reasonable person in a like position would exercise to discharge their
statutory and legal duties toward Decedent. Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
actions led to Decedent’s injuries and untimely death.
 
The Court notes that paragraph 21
alleges abuse as to Grajeda-Oliver.
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging the following: (1) Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect
on behalf of Decedent; (2) Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and
Safety Codes on behalf of Decedent; (3) Wrongful Death on behalf of Plaintiff
in her individual capacity; (4) Negligence, unclear as to who is bringing the
cause of action (compare Complaint ¶¶ 51 and 52); and (5) Unfair Business
Practices, unclear as to who is bringing this cause of action (see id. ¶¶
53-62 [cause of action addresses alleging individual addressed as “Plaintiff;”
however, pursuant to paragraph one, Plaintiff is addressed as “French” and/or
“Plaintiffs” and Decedent is addressed as “Brumfield” and/or “Plaintiffs”
only]). 
 
The Court notes that the Fifth
Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practices) is mislabeled as the Sixth Cause of
Action within the Complaint. (See id. pages 8-9 [jump between Fourth
Cause of Action to Sixth Cause of Action].) The Court will address the Unfair
Business Practices claim as the Fifth Cause of Action. 
 
On May 01, 2024, Defendant filed this
Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed
her Opposition. 
 
On June 25, 2024, Defendant filed
its Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Compelling Arbitration –  California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Cal. Code¿Civ.¿Proc.¿§ 1281.2 permits
a party to file a motion to request that the Court order the parties to
arbitrate a controversy. Under Cal. Code¿Civ.¿Proc.¿section 1281.2, the Court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is
also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295. 
 
(Cal. Code¿Civ.¿Proc.¿§ 1281.2.) 
¿¿ 
A second
statute creates further impositions for arbitration for uninsured or
underinsured motor vehicles: “The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall
provide that the determination as to whether the insured shall be legally
entitled to recover damages, and if so entitled, the amount thereof, shall be
made by agreement between the insured and the insurer or, in the event of
disagreement, by arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single
neutral arbitrator. . .” (Cal. Ins. Code § 11580(f).)¿ 
 
Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause
applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the
parties to arbitration.¿(Id.)¿The Court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.¿(Id., Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 [“. . .unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement”].)¿Unless
the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise, the question of whether
the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the court, not the
arbitrator.¿(Id.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The right to arbitration depends upon
contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking
specific performance of that contract.¿(Id.)¿There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.¿(Id.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The party seeking to enforce the arbitration
agreement bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿The trial court first
decides whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties
and then¿determine whether the plaintiff’s claims are covered by the
agreement.¿(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co.¿(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955,
961.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The party opposing the petition to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.,¿supra,¿at¿1284.)¿In
these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as
oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.¿(Id.)¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As a
preliminary matter, there appear to be some issues with the exhibits filed
concurrently with defense counsel Spencer A. Stein’s declaration. 
 
Stein declares the following: 
 
I personally
reviewed the patient chart and business records for Plaintiff Leeora Brumfield
from Defendant’s facility. Within those records are documents titled
“California Standard Admission Agreement for Skilled Nursing Facilities and
Intermediate Care Facilities,” (hereinafter “Admission Agreement”) and
“Resident – Facility Arbitration Agreement” (hereinafter “Arbitration
Agreement”) executed on October 1, 2021, by Ms. Brumfield’s daughter, and Legal
Representative/Agent Debrorah French. The Arbitration Agreement requires that
any and all disputes relating to Ms. Brumfield’s residency at Ellison John or
otherwise relating to the care, treatment, and services provided to her, would
be submitted to binding arbitration. There is nothing within the patient’s
records to show that the Arbitration Agreement has been waived, rescinded, or
revoked.
 
Attached hereto as
Exhibit B is a true and correct copy of the Admission Agreement, and attached
hereto as Exhibit C is a true and correct copy of the Arbitration Agreement.
 
On April 26, 2024,
Ellison John Admissions Assistant, Araceli Acevedo, signed a Declaration, under
penalty of perjury, stating that Ms. French electronically signed the Admission
Agreement and Arbitration Agreement, in addition to other admission documents,
with the full capacity and ability to do so and in accordance with the
Verification of Electronic Signatures document, which was signed in her
presence. Please see Declaration of Araceli Acevedo, filed concurrently
herewith.
 
(Decl. Stein ¶¶ 3-5.) 
 
Exhibit B identifies the person
signing the Admission Agreement as Decedent. (See Exh. B at p. 2 [“Resident:
Leeora Brumfield [¶] Resident’s Representative: Leeora
Bumfield  [¶] Relationship: Self”].)
The Court notes that Decedent’s name is typed incorrectly under Resident’s
Representative; however, as the error is only one letter, the Court treats this
as a scrivener’s error. Exhibit B lacks a signature of review on page three,
form of payment by Decedent on page four, and signatures of both Decedent and a
representative of the facility on page 11. (See Decl. Stein, Exh. B.) 
 
Exhibit C does show Plaintiff’s
signature and a signature by a facility representative on all relevant
signature lines. (See id., Exh. C at pp. 5/7 and 6/7.)
 
The Court notes that there is an
Exhibit D regarding Plaintiff’s use of an e-signature. However, there is no
corresponding explanation of Exhibit D within Stein’s declaration. The Court
has found a declaration regarding Exhibit D by Defendant’s Admissions
Assistant, Araceli Acevedo (“Acevedo”).
 
Acevedo states, in relevant part:
 
As an Admissions
Assistant during the admission process of residents to Ellison John described
in paragraph 2, it was my custom and practice to review a resident’s medical
charting or speak with nursing to determine if the resident was his or her own
responsible party and therefore, able to sign the Admission and Arbitration
Agreements. If the resident had capacity to sign the admission and arbitration
agreements, it was my custom and practice to have the resident sign the
agreement unless the resident expressly indicated that a family member had the
authority to sign the Admission and Arbitration Agreements on the resident’s
behalf. If the resident did not have capacity, I had the Admission and
Arbitration Agreements signed by the responsible party as identified by the
resident’s medical charting or nursing. In this case, I do not have any
evidence that I deviated from my normal custom and practice. Therefore, I am
informed and believe that I confirmed with Leeora Brumfield and Deborah French
that Deobrah French preferred to have her daughter sign the Admission and
Arbitration Agreements on her behalf, and I would not have had Ms. French
sign if I believed she was not authorized to do so by her mother.
 
As an Admissions
Assistant during the admission process of residents to Ellison John, it was my
custom and practice to be present when the resident or their legal
representative/agent or responsible party signed the Admission and Arbitration
Agreements. It is the facility’s policy to complete the admission process in a
timely and accurate manner after a resident is admitted to the Facility. In
this case, I do not have any evidence that I deviated from my normal custom and
practice. Therefore, I am informed and believe that I was present during
Leeora Brumfield and Deborah French’s review and execution of Admission and
Arbitration Agreements agreement on October 1, 2021, pertaining to Ms.
Brumfield’s admission to Ellison John.
 
To prepare Admission
and Arbitration documents for a resident’s review and signature, I access the
patient’s admission packet and Arbitration Agreement on a computer with access
to the patient’s electronic medical record via the PointClickCare software. I
then enter into the resident’s profile and generate the necessary documents for
the resident’s review and signature by creating a new packet and assigning
myself as the “packet owner” using my email to verify I am the admissions staff
member who is reviewing and signing the documents with the resident or their
responsible party. In this case, I generated an Admission Agreement and an
Arbitration Agreement for Deborah French’s signature in her individual capacity
and as her mother’s responsible party.
 
[. . .]
 
Once each document
has been opened and presented for review, the person signing the document is
prompted to click a check box to confirm they are the person whose name appears
in the documents. I am informed and believe that Ms. French confirmed she
was indeed the person signing the Admission Agreement and Arbitration Agreement
on her mother’s behalf and in her individual capacity.
 
After the resident
or their responsible party confirms they are the person signing the Admission
Agreement and Arbitration Agreement, the signee uses their finger to draw their
signature on the iPad and clicks a box to record their electronic signature along
with a time stamp. True and correct copies of Ms. French’s electronic
signatures and time stamps are attached to the Petition to Compel Arbitration
as Exhibit “C”. I am informed and believe that Ms. French e-signed the
Admission Agreement and Arbitration Agreement in my presence on October 1,
2021.
 
Attached to the
accompanying Petition to Compel Arbitration as Exhibit "B" is a true
an[d] correct copy of the Admission Agreement signed by Deborah French at
Ellison John which was prepared and executed by myself as an authorized
facility representative of Ellison John in the regular course of business.
 
Attached to the
accompanying Petition to Compel Arbitration as Exhibit "C" is a true
and correct copy of the Arbitration Agreement signed by Deborah French at
Ellison John which was prepared and executed by myself as an authorized
facility representative of Ellison John in the regular course of business.
 
(Decl. Acevedo.)
 
However, the documents the Court
has been provided do not show what Acevedo is declaring. Rather, the document
shows that Decedent was to sign the Admission Agreement herself and Plaintiff
was to sign the arbitration agreement. 
 
As what is presented contradicts
Acevedo’s declaration, Defendant has not existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED. 
  
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Premiere Rehabilitation & Wellness
Center of Lancaster, LP, dba The Ellison John Transitional Care Center’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.