  Case Number:  23AVCV01044    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiffs Hilda
Noemi Caal (“Hilda”)1 and Carlos
Manuel Caal (“Carlos” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that on or about
December 26, 2020, they entered into a warranty contract with Defendant General
Motors LLC (“Defendant”) regarding a 2021 Chevrolet Colorado with vehicle
identification number 1GCGSCEN9M1159646 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was
manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. Plaintiff further alleges that
defects and/or nonconformities manifested themselves within the applicable
express warranty period, Plaintiffs presented the Subject Vehicle to
Defendant’s representatives, Defendant’s representatives failed to commence the
service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service or repair the
Subject Vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days,
and Defendant failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or make
restitution under Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1793.1(a)(2) and 1793.2(d). Plaintiffs
present that they have suffered damages from the aforementioned actions of
Defendant. 
 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Violation of
Subdivision (d) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2; (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1793.2; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Cal. Civ. Code
§§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5); and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
On November 17, 2023, Defendant filed a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
On January 02, 2024, before the motion was
heard, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Changes include
the section titled “Tolling of the Statutes of Limitations,” a factual
allegation as to where the Subject Vehicle was purchased (see FAC ¶ 6), Plaintiffs’ actions
prior to purchase (see id. at ¶¶ 8-9), and the Prayer (see id.
at Prayer). The causes of action alleged and the factual allegations within
appear to be substantially similar. 
 
On March
01, 2024, Defendant filed this Demurrer with Motion to Strike as to the FAC.
 
On June
18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Oppositions. 
 
On June 24,
2024, Defendant filed its Replies.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by
proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF
Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the
truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ.
Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may object
by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion
to sustain a demurrer 
if there is a reasonable
probability that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City
of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23,
2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Standard for Motion to Strike – The court may, upon a motion,
or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id. § 437.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a
motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer
with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is
subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an
agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc.
§430.41 and §435.5.)¿ The Court notes that this requirement has been met. (See
Decl. Xylon Quezada ¶ 2.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
i.       
Demurrer 
 
Defendant demurs to the Fifth Cause of
Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) only.  
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not
plead the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) with the
requisite specificity. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff must
allege (1) the identity of the individuals from Defendant who purportedly
concealed material facts or made untrue representations about the Colorado, (2)
their authority to speak and act on behalf of Defendant, (3) Defendant’s
knowledge about alleged defects in the Subject Vehicle at the time of purchase,
(4) any interactions with Defendant before or during the purchase of the
Colorado, or (5) Defendant’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiffs to
purchase the specific Colorado at issue. Defendant next argues that the Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) fails as there is (1) no
fiduciary duty between the parties; and (2) absent a fiduciary duty a duty to
disclose arises only when a defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material
fact, the defendant actively concealed the material fact, or the defendant made
partial representations while also suppressing the material fact and such exceptions
are not present as there was no direct transaction between the
parties.  
 
Regarding specificity, “[l]ess specificity
is required when it ‘appears from the nature of the allegations that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [quoting Bradley v. Hartford Acc.&
Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825].) The specificity requirement is
greatly relaxed or eliminated under circumstances where the defendant must
necessarily possess superior information of the fraud. (Id., at 216-217;
see also Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212-213.) 
 
Plaintiff has included the following
language in their FAC: 
 
Defendant GM committed fraud by allowing the
Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiffs without disclosing that the Vehicle and its
8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure. Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle equipped with GM's defective
8-speed transmission.  
 
Plaintiffs are informed, believe, and
thereon allege that prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle, Defendant GM was
well aware and knew that the 8-speed transmission installed on the Vehicle was
defective but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiffs prior to and at the
time of sale and thereafter.5 
 
Specifically,
Defendant GM knew that the 8-speed transmission had one or more defects that
can result in various problems, including, but not limited to hard or harsh
shifts, jerking, lurching, hesitation on acceleration, surging and/or inability
to control the vehicle’s speed, acceleration, or deceleration (“Transmission
Defect”). These conditions present a safety hazard and are unreasonably
dangerous to consumers because they can suddenly and unexpectedly cause the
driver to be unable to control the speed and acceleration/deceleration of the
vehicle. Such unexpected inability to control the vehicle’s speed and acceleration/deceleration
thereby, exposes Plaintiffs and their passengers (along with other drivers who
share the road or garage with Plaintiffs) to a serious risk of accident and
injury.
 
Plaintiffs
are informed, believe and thereon allege that Defendant GM acquired its
knowledge of the Transmission Defect prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle,
through sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiffs, including but
not limited to pre-production and post-production testing data; early consumer
complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant GM and its
network of dealers; aggregate warranty data compiled from Defendant GM’s
network of dealers; testing conducted by Defendant GM in response to these
complaints; as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by
Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of dealers, amongst other sources of
internal information.
 
 
(FAC ¶¶ 67-70.)  
 
The Court notes that this section of the FAC
previously read, in relevant part:
 
Defendant GM committed fraud by allowing the
Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiffs without disclosing that the Vehicle and its
8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure. Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle equipped with GM's defective
8-speed transmission.  
 
Plaintiffs are informed, believe, and
thereon allege that prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle, Defendant GM was
well aware and knew that the 8-speed transmission installed on the Vehicle was
defective but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiffs prior to and at the
time of sale and thereafter.2 
 
Indeed, Defendant has issued various
internal technical bulletins to its dealers (not consumers) concerning the
Transmission Defect. For example, an August 2020 Technical Service Bulletin
("TSB") designed to address harsh first shifts of the day notes that
"[r]eplacing transmission components or complete assemblies will not
improve the condition." 
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 45-46.)  
 
The reliance on the 2020 Technical Service
Bulletin (“TSB”) has not been omitted, but rather moved to a footnote in the
FAC that reads: “Indeed, Defendant has issued various internal technical
bulletins to its dealers (not consumers) concerning the Transmission Defect.
For example, an August 2020 Technical Service Bulletin (“TSB”) designed to
address harsh first shifts of the day notes that “[r]eplacing transmission
components or complete assemblies will not improve the condition.” (See FAC ¶
68, fn. 5.) 
 
The allegations, taken as true for the
purpose of the Demurrer, show that (1) Defendant issued internal Technical
Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) addressing issues to its dealers regarding issues in
transmissions on 8-speed transmissions, (2) the Subject Vehicle includes such a
transmission, and (3) such information was not disclosed to Plaintiffs. Thus,
Plaintiffs allegations allow for a reasonable inference that Defendant
possessed superior information and the specificity requirement is greatly
relaxed or eliminated.  
 
Regarding a duty to disclose, the Court
notes that LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 (“LiMandri”)
provides four circumstances in which nondisclosure may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with Plaintiff;
(2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (3) the
defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (4) the defendant made
partial representations while also suppressing the material fact. (See Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (“Bigler-Engler”); LiMandri,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) The LiMandri holding has been
questioned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but not
California courts and, as such, remains binding on this Court. 
 
Bigler-Engler emphasizes the LiMandri principles, but
goes further to include another case precedent: 
 
This court examined the circumstances giving
rise to a duty to disclose in LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th
326 [60 Cal. Rptr. 2d 539] (LiMandri). In that case, we explained,
“There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.’” (Id.
at p. 336.) Where, as here, a fiduciary relationship does not exist between the
parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply. These three
circumstances, however, “presuppose[] the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id.
at pp. 336–337.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in
a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as ‘“seller and buyer,
employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into
any kind of contractual arrangement.”’” (Shin v. Kong (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 498, 509 [95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 304].) 
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at 311.) 
 
While Defendant believes that Bigler-Engler
supports its argument, Defendant fails to address that this statement includes
parties entering into a contractual agreement, which necessarily includes
warranty contracts such as the one in this action. 
 
Defendant’s Reply to the Demurrer does not
change the Court’s analysis. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
 
ii.      Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant seeks to Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages within the Prayer. (See FAC at Prayer, subdiv. (h).)  
 
Defendant argues that the Court may strike
from the pleadings any irrelevant, false, or improper matter and that includes
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages as it is an unrecoverable damage.
Specifically, Defendant presents that Plaintiffs may not recover punitive
damages based upon the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act as (1)the statute
limits recovery to a refund of the purchase price paid and payable (or
replacement of the subject vehicle), plus – under certain circumstances – a
Civil Penalty not to exceed two times Plaintiffs’ actual damages (see Motion to
Strike, 4:25-27 [citing Cal. Civ. Code, § 1794; 15 U.S.C. § 2301]); (2)
Plaintiff has not shown oppression, fraud, or malice under Cal. Civ. Code §
3294 as the alleged facts related to fraud are conclusory; and (3) as the Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) fails, so too does
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. 
 
The issue presented before this Court, based
on the FAC, is whether a plaintiff can recover compensatory damages under the
Song-Beverly Act as well as punitive damages for fraud. The California Courts
of Appeal have addressed this issue.¿¿ 
 
The Court of Appeal of California, Fourth
Appellate District holds:¿¿ 
 
We accept that a plaintiff cannot recover
both a statutory penalty and punitive damages based on the same conduct. (See
part VIII, post.) The present question, however, is whether a plaintiff can
recover compensatory damages on one claim and punitive damages on a different
claim. That issue simply was not presented in Fineman. As the treble damages
were $19.5 million, evidently the compensatory damages on the antitrust claim
were $6.5 million; the compensatory damages on the state law claim were $17.7 million.
Thus, the plaintiff had no incentive to try to combine compensatory damages on
the antitrust claim with punitive damages on the state law claim.¿¿ 
 
Ford also cites Quest Medical, Inc. v.
Apprill (5th Cir. 1996) 90 F.3d 1080, which was decided under Texas law.
(See id. at pp. 1089–1090, 1093.) In Texas, however, attorney fees may
be awarded as an element of punitive damages. (Canales v. Zapatero
(Tex.App. 1989) 773 S.W.2d 659, 660; Carter v. Barclay (Tex.Civ.App.
1972) 476 S.W.2d 909, 917.) Hence, an award of both attorney fees and punitive
damages can constitute a double recovery. (JHC Ventures, L.P. v. Fast
Trucking, Inc. (Tex.App. 2002) 94 S.W.3d 762, 774–776, disapproved on other
grounds in Medical City Dallas, Ltd. v. Carlisle Corp. (Tex. 2008) 251
S.W.3d 55, 62.) That is not the law in California.¿¿ 
 
¿Ford also cites Celeritas Technologies,
Ltd. v. Rockwell Internat. Corp. (Fed. Cir. 1998) 150 F.3d 1354, cert. den.
(1999) 525 U.S. 1106. There, however, the plaintiff had stipulated before trial
that, “to simplify the trial and avoid a duplicative recovery,” it would accept
the award on either its breach of contract, misappropriation of trade secrets,
or patent infringement theory, whichever was highest. (Id. at p. 1357.)
The appellate court held that, because of its stipulation, the plaintiff could
not recover both the compensatory damages awarded for breach of contract and
the punitive damages awarded for misappropriation. (Id. at p. 1362.) The
Bowsers entered no such stipulation.¿¿ 
 
We therefore conclude that the Bowsers are
entitled to compensatory damages (and attorney fees) under the Song-Beverly Act
as well as punitive damages for fraud.¿¿ 
 
(Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 587, 626-27.)¿¿ 
 
The Court of Appeal of California, Third
Appellate District holds:¿¿¿ 
 
Ford also argues that “a defendant’s conduct
is ‘substantially the same’ when it is part of a ‘unified course of conduct,’”
“even when multiple and distinct acts, giving rise to claims under different
legal theories, are involved.” And because the “facts” developed from the
evidence of its corporate communications overlap to show reprehensibility for
punitive damages and willfulness for the Song-Beverly Act violation, both
awards therefore address substantially the same conduct, or a unified course of
conduct, and therefore an award¿ of punitive damages and a Song-Beverly Act
civil penalty amount to Ford being punished twice for the same conduct. We do
not agree.¿¿ 
 
We have already rejected Ford's assertion
that the underlying conduct need only be “substantially” the same to prohibit
the recovery of both punitive damages and civil penalties; rather, the recovery
of both punitive damages and civil penalties is prohibited when the underlying
conduct for both remedies is the same conduct, i.e., identical conduct. And as
we have said, the punitive damages award based on fraud and violation of the
CLRA were based on Ford's presale fraudulent conduct leading up to and culminating
in the sale, where Ford concealed problems relating to the defective 6.0 liter
Navistar diesel engine. The Song-Beverly Act civil penalty related to Ford's
willful postsale conduct in failing to promptly replace the truck after a
reasonable number of repair attempts or make restitution to plaintiffs.¿¿ 
 
[. . .]¿¿ 
 
Ford appears to assert that plaintiff
effectively combined the conduct underlying the fraud/CRLA cause of action and
the Song-Beverly Act cause of action by arguing Ford engaged in a pattern and
practice of misconduct and thus the two awards were based on substantially the
same conduct. But plaintiffs are not prohibited from receiving both an award
for punitive damages based on presale fraudulent inducement and a postsale
Song-Beverly Act penalty based on willful noncompliance because they argued
pattern and practice in the trial court. “A pattern or practice of wrongful
conduct is often introduced as evidence of malice or oppression to justify a
punitive damage award.” (George F. Hillenbrand, Inc. v. Insurance Co. of
North America (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 784, 820–821 [128 Cal. Rptr. 2d 586].)
Thus, whether Ford's conduct involved a pattern and practice of misconduct as
well¿ as other factors, such as how reprehensible Ford's conduct was and
whether Ford disregarded the safety of others were all express considerations
for the jury to weigh in deciding the amount of punitive damages. (CACI No.
3942.) And the amount of punitive damages is not limited to consideration of a
pattern and practice of misconduct presale. The jury could consider a pattern
or practice that continued beyond the date of the sale.¿¿ 
 
¿Moreover, whether Ford engaged in an
ongoing pattern or practice of misconduct pertinent to the amount of punitive
damages award does not become an impermissible consideration by virtue of the
fact that plaintiffs were also separately alleging, and attempting to
establish, that Ford willfully failed to comply with the requirements of the
Song-Beverly Act. Nor does the proper consideration of whether Ford engaged in
such a pattern or practice, including pre- and postsale conduct, lead to the
conclusion that the fraud/CLRA claims and the Song-Beverly Act claim were based
on the same conduct. Plaintiffs did not argue to the jury that the failure to
comply with the Song-Beverly Act obligations to replace the vehicle or make
restitution supported the punitive damages award. In fact, in phase 2,
plaintiffs' attorney briefly discussed the Song-Beverly Act, noting, “[y]ou can
be an honest manufacturer and still have Song-Beverly issues, a customer came
in multiple times, there were defects, you didn't fix them.” Counsel then
stated that the Song-Beverly Act and its civil penalties were “totally
separate.”¿¿ 
 
Ford simply cannot escape liability for both
awards by virtue of the fact that it engaged in a pattern or practice of
deceitful misconduct throughout the course of the discrete events and conduct
involved here.¿¿ 
 
We conclude that punitive damages and the
Song-Beverly Act civil penalty were both properly awarded to
plaintiffs.¿¿ 
 
(Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 946, 970-73 (“Anderson”).)¿¿ 
 
Here, as in Anderson, the
Song-Beverly claims are related to Defendant’s ability to replace the Subject
Vehicle or make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act while the
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) is based on
pre-sale actions of fraudulent concealment which ultimately led to the purchase
of the Subject Vehicle.¿¿¿ 
 
Further, as discussed ante, the
allegations of for the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment) have been pled with the requisite specificity. 
 
Defendant’s Reply does not change the
Court’s analysis. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike is
DENIED.  
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 