Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```yaml
Case Number: 23STCV30311
Plaintiff's Name: Maria Gabriela Vieyra
Defendant's Name: California Medical Pharmacy, Inc. and David Liautaud
People: Maria Gabriela Vieyra, David Liautaud
Company: California Medical Pharmacy, Inc., Maria Auxiliadora Medical Group (MA Medical Group)
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: October 23, 2024, November 18, 2024, November 25, 2024, January 1, 2018, July 18, 2022
Events: Employment relationship, harassment, discrimination, retaliation, sexual battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, constructive tortious termination
Money: Not mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to quash the deposition subpoena issued to MA Medical Group on the grounds that the information sought is invasive of her constitutional right of privacy and the physician-patient privilege, not relevant to the subject matter of this action, and not narrowly drawn and/or there is a less burdensome alternative to production by subpoena.
Facts: Plaintiff alleges harassment, discrimination, retaliation, sexual battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and constructive tortious termination in her employment relationship with the defendants.
Disputes: Plaintiff disputes the scope of the deposition subpoena and the relevance of the information sought.
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to quash the deposition subpoena, the defendants filed an opposition, and Plaintiff filed a reply.
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, Civil Code section 2017.010, California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345
Case Citations: Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833
Statutes: California Rules of Court, Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code
Roles: Judge: Hon. Holly J. Fujie, Plaintiff: Maria Gabriela Vieyra, Defendants: California Medical Pharmacy, Inc. and David Liautaud
Significant Statements:
* The court has considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
* The subpoena seeks the following information: “Any and all medical records, medical charts, documents, notes, explanation of benefit forms, correspondence, memoranda, or any and all other written documentation including electronically stored information, including emails, concerning any and all medical treatment, laboratory services rendered or prescriptions issued relating to any illness, injuries or sickness relating to any mental, emotional or psychological injury, illness or sickness and relating to any claim of injuries, and any and all medical records, notes, charts, MRI reports, scan reports, (no X-rays) regarding all medical treatment” pertaining to Plaintiff from January 1, 2018 to present.
* Plaintiff seeks to quash the subpoena on the grounds that the information sought is invasive of her constitutional right of privacy and the physician-patient privilege, not relevant to the subject matter of this action, and not narrowly drawn and/or there is a less burdensome alternative to production by subpoena.
* The court finds that the information sought by the subpoena is necessary to ascertain whether Plaintiff’s claimed mental and physical conditions were caused by Defendant’s alleged harassment.
* The court denies Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash, or in the Alternative Modify, Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Records from a Medical Provider and Protective Orders.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has considered the motion to quash the deposition subpoena issued to MA Medical Group, the opposition, and the reply. The subpoena seeks information related to Plaintiff’s medical treatment, including medical records, notes, and reports, from January 1, 2018 to present. Plaintiff seeks to quash the subpoena on the grounds that the information sought is invasive of her constitutional right of privacy and the physician-patient privilege, not relevant to the subject matter of this action, and not narrowly drawn and/or there is a less burdensome alternative to production by subpoena.

The court finds that the information sought by the subpoena is necessary to ascertain whether Plaintiff’s claimed mental and physical conditions were caused by Defendant’s alleged harassment. The court denies Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash, or in the Alternative Modify, Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Records from a Medical Provider and Protective Orders.