 Case Number:  22STCV09969    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  56       SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR  THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      PAULA R. GREEN,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   WARRINER GREEN & RILEY, et al.,                                                                                                            Defendants.                                               CASE NO.:  22STCV09969   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  MOTION FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT    DETERMINATION, AND MOTION FOR ORDER TO DEPOSIT FUNDS INTO BLOCKED ACCOUNT,    OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO DEPOSIT FUNDS WITH THE COURT     Date: December 4, 2024 Time: 8:30 a.m. Dept. 56          MOVING PARTY: Defendant  Steven Lowe  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant  Matthew Green                The Court has considered the moving,  opposition and reply papers.    BACKGROUND             On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff  filed the operative First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)  legal malpractice; and (2) malicious prosecution. The legal malpractice claim  is asserted only against Defendants Matthew Green, Rhett Warriner, Michael  Riley, and Warriner, Green & Riley, LLP; the malicious prosecution claim is  asserted against all Defendants.                        On February 15, 2023, Michael R.  Augustine (“Augustine”), a judgment creditor of Paula Green, filed a Notice of  Lien based on a money judgment entered in In the matter of Irwin L. Green  and Dorothy L. Green Revocable 1998 Trust, Case No. 16STPB01322, in the  amount of $5,134,712.00.               On June 12, 2024, Defendant Steven  Lowe (“Lowe”) filed a Notice of Settlement notifying the Court, among others,  that Plaintiff and Lowe, individually and doing business as Law Office of  Steven Lowe/Lowe Law dba Lowe & Associates (“Lowe Defendants”) had entered  a settlement.                On June 17,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP  Section 708.440(b). On July 12, 2024, the Court denied that motion.                On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff  filed a Renewed Motion for Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP Section  708.440(b).                On September 30, 2024, Lowe filed  the instant Motion for Good Faith Determination, and Motion for Order to  Deposit Funds into Blocked Account, or in the Alternative, Motion to Deposit  Funds with the Court.    On  November 19, 2024, Defendant Matthew Green filed a combined opposition to the motions.  Lowe filed a reply to the opposition on November 25, 2024.    MOTION FOR DETERMINATION  OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT   Legal Standard             California Code of Civil Procedure  section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed  motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more  parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a  contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith  of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged  tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .” “A determination by the court that the  settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or  co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or  co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative  indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (CCP § 877.6,  subd. (c).) Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith does  not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims  against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement. (CCP § 877,  subd. (a).)    In  Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,  499 (Tech-Bilt, Inc.), the California Supreme Court identified the  following nonexclusive factors courts are to consider in determining if a  settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of  plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the  amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among  plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than  he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations  include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling  defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct  aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”    “The  party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that  issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that  the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as  to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a  demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a  ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Id. at  pp. 499-500.)    Discussion              Lowe moves to have the Court  determine that the settlement agreement was entered into in good faith. On May  22, 2024, Plaintiff and the Lowe Defendants entered into a written settlement  agreement. The parties executed a second addendum to the settlement agreement  on September 19, 2024. The settlement agreement and addendum are attached as  Exhibit A and Exhibit B to the Declaration of Vincent Green. The pertinent  terms of the settlement are as follows. The Lowe Defendants agree to pay Plaintiff  a lump sum of $51,500.00 to be deposited into a court-blocked bank account, to  be opened by the Lowe Defendants’ counsel.  There will also be mutual releases concerning  the settling parties.                The Court finds that the factors set  forth in Tech-Bilt have been met for the current case.  With respect to the first two Tech-Bilt  factors, Plaintiff estimates the global settlement value of the case as  $650,000.00. (Mot. for Good Faith Det., p. 7:25.) Lowe has agreed to settle for  $51,500.00, which represents 8% of the total settlement value. Due to Lowe’s  relatively limited involvement in the underlying action, this represents a  reasonable proportion of his liability.                 Regarding the third Tech-Bilt  factor, the addendum to the settlement agreement provides that the settlement  funds shall be deposited into a blocked account until a determination is made  as to the allocation of funds to the potential lien claimants.               Lowe argues that the fourth Tech-Bilt  factor, recognizing that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would  if he were found liable after a trial, weighs in his favor as well because it  means he can “extricate himself from an extraordinarily contentious family  dispute that would no doubt lead to a lengthy and expensive trial.” (Mot. for  Good Faith Det., p. 8:27-28.)               Lastly, Lowe requests that the Court  order the deposit of the settlement funds into a court-blocked account, from  which the funds can only be withdrawn by order of this Court. Alternatively,  Lowe requests that the funds be deposited with the Court. The Court shall grant  the request that the funds be deposited into a court-blocked account.                In opposition, Defendant Matthew  Green makes no arguments as to the amount of the settlement agreement or  whether the agreement was entered into in good faith. Thus, he has failed to  meet his burden to provide enough evidence to show that the settlement was not  entered in good faith. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.                Defendant Steven T. Lowe’s Motion  for Good Faith Settlement Determination, and Motion for Order to Deposit Funds  into Blocked Account is GRANTED.                Moving  Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.                   Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed  by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email  and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off  calendar.   SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 


PAULA R. GREEN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WARRINER GREEN & RILEY, et al., 
                                                                             

                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV09969
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT
  UNDER CCP SECTION 708.440(b) 
 
 
 
Date: December 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 


 MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Paula R. Green RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Matthew Green              The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  BACKGROUND            On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
legal malpractice; and (2) malicious prosecution. The legal malpractice claim
is asserted only against Defendants Matthew Green, Rhett Warriner, Michael
Riley, and Warriner, Green & Riley, LLP; the malicious prosecution claim is
asserted against all Defendants.                      On February 15, 2023, Michael R.
Augustine (“Augustine”), a judgment creditor of Paula Green, filed a Notice of
Lien based on a money judgment entered in In the matter of Irwin L. Green
and Dorothy L. Green Revocable 1998 Trust, Case No. 16STPB01322, in the
amount of $5,134,712.00.             On June 12, 2024, Defendant Steven
Lowe (“Lowe”) filed a Notice of Settlement notifying the Court, among others,
that Plaintiff and Lowe, individually and doing business as Law Office of
Steven Lowe/Lowe law dba Lowe & Associates (“Lowe Defendants”) had entered
a settlement.              On June 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP
Section 708.440(b). On July 12, 2024, the Court denied the motion.              On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant Renewed Motion for Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP
Section 708.440(b) (the “Motion”).   On
November 19, 2024, Defendant Matthew Green filed an opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff
filed a reply on November 25, 2024.  
























































 MOTION FOR ORDER
AUTHORIZING SETTLEMENT Judicial Notice Pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this
state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the
United States”.  The court, however, may not take judicial notice of
the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only
judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such
that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)                 Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the
following: (1)  The Order disqualifying Matthew Green filed in Case No. 20STCV05251;(2)  The Judgment and Statement of Decision entered in Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 20STCV05251 on April 19, 2022;(3)  The Order awarding attorneys’ fees to Paula Green that was entered in
Case No. 20STCV052251 on July 18, 2022, and the accompanying Reporter’s
Transcript of the hearing on that motion;(4)  The Opinion of the Court of Appeal in Appeal No. B321805. 






























 Legal Standard            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 708.440(a) states that when there is a pending judgment lien against a
party, “unless the judgment creditor’s money judgment is first satisfied or the
lien is released, … no compromise, dismissal, settlement, or satisfaction of
the pending action or special proceeding or the judgment procured therein may
be entered into by or on behalf of the judgment debtor, without the written
consent of the judgment creditor or authorization by order of the court
obtained under subdivision (b).” In turn, subdivision (b) states: “Upon
application by the judgment debtor, the court in which the action or special
proceeding is pending or the judgment procured therein is entered may, in its
discretion, after a hearing, make an order described in subdivision (a) that
may include such terms and conditions as the court deems necessary. The
application for an order under this subdivision shall be made on noticed
motion. The notice of motion shall be served on the judgment creditor. Service
shall be made personally or by mail.” Although
service was made by email, as no party has objected to the manner of service of
the motion, the Court will address the Motion on its merits.  DiscussionIn
the Motion, Plaintiff asserts that her counsel, Larry J. Caldwell (“Caldwell”),
has an attorney’s lien that applies to all recoveries in this action, including
the proposed settlement between Plaintiff and Lowe Defendants and that Caldwell’s
attorney’s lien is entitled to preference over Augustine’s lien.  As
discussed in depth in this Court’s July 12, 2024 Minute Order denying
Plaintiff’s June 17, 2024 Motion for Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP
Section 708.440(b), this Court makes no findings regarding the validity of Caldwell’s
attorney’s lien or its priority over Augustine’s lien. (7/12/2024 Minute Order;
Carroll v. Interstate Brands Corporation (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1168,
1173 [“Appellate courts have consistently held that the trial court in the
underlying action has no jurisdiction to determine the existence or validity of
an attorney’s lien on the judgment.”].)  The
Court’s determination in this Motion is limited to a determination under CCP
section 708.440(b) as to whether the settlement should be approved under “terms
and conditions as the court deems necessary.”  The
Enforcement of Judgments Act “must be implemented to prevent a judgment debtor,
with or without the assistance of other parties to the settlement agreement,
from structuring a settlement agreement so that it receives benefits while
evading the lien of the judgment creditor, absent appropriate equitable
considerations.” (Oldham v. California Capital Fund Inc. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 421, 430.) “[C]ourts exercising their discretion in approving or
disapproving a settlement should consider whether the settling parties have
adopted settlement terms that adversely affect the rights of others,” including
specifically those of a judgment creditor with a lien under Code of Civil
Procedure § 708.410, et seq. (Id. at p. 432.) “To make an informed and
intelligent decision about the settlement, the superior court should have
sufficient information to understand who benefits from the transfers
contemplated by the proposed settlement and how they are benefitted. In other
words, the superior court must understand the size of the settlement pie, how
the pie is sliced, and who is getting which slice.” (Id. [Citation
omitted].) The obligation to provide that information belongs to the judgment
debtor because, as the proponent of the settlement, it bears the burden of
proving that the settlement is reasonable. (Id. at p. 434.) “[O]nce the
superior court knows the judgment debtor or an entity closely connected to the
judgment debtor is getting a settlement slice beyond the reach of the judgment
creditor’s lien, the court can determine if equitable principles justify
evasion of the lien, if terms or conditions should be imposed on the
settlement, or if approval of the settlement should be withheld.” (Id.) Plaintiff
asserts that the settlement of $51,500 is reasonable because Lowe only
represented Robert Green for 1 out of the 49 months of alleged malicious
prosecution against Plaintiff. (Mot. for Order Auth. Settlement, p. 8:7-12.)  Plaintiff further asserts that because of the
relative sizes of Caldwell’s attorney’s lien and Augustine’s judgment lien, 100%
of the settlement proceeds to be paid to the Lowe Defendants will go to either Caldwell
or Augustine depending on the results of the separate action determining the
existence and priority of Caldwell’s lien.  (Caldwell Decl. ¶ 12.)  Lastly,
Plaintiff and the Lowe Defendants added a second addendum to the settlement agreement
which states, in relevant part: “The Parties agree that, subject to the Court’s
approval, the entire settlement amount shall be deposited into a court-blocked
bank account, to be opened by Defendant’s counsel, with the funds being
designated as belonging to Defendant. It is the intent of the parties to the
settlement agreement that funds may only be withdrawn from the blocked account
based upon an Order issued by the Presiding Judge in Case No. 22STCV09969
authorizing such withdrawal. Defendant shall distribute the settlement funds to
such persons as the Court orders.” (Mot. for Order Auth. Settlement, Ex. 6.)  Thus,
the Court concludes that there is good cause to approve this settlement
agreement. The proposed settlement agreement is beneficial to all the settling
parties as it will conclusively resolve the dispute between Plaintiff and the Lowe
Defendants. Additionally, the amended settlement agreement will not interfere
with the potential rights of lien claimants to the settlement funds. The Court
further notes that no objection has been asserted that suggests the settlement
agreement is unfair or without legal basis.  Accordingly,
the settlement is approved.              Plaintiff Paula R. Green’s Motion for
an Order Authorizing Settlement Under CCP Section 708.440(b) is GRANTED.               Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.             Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. Dated this 4th day of December 2024 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






































































 