 Case Number:  23STCV30311    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA GABRIELA VIEYRA, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA MEDICAL PHARMACY, INC., a
  business entity, exact form unknown; DAVID LIAUTAUD, an individual; and Does
  1 through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV30311
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO QUASH, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
  MODIFY, DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF RECORDS FROM A MEDICAL PROVIDER
  AND PROTECTIVE ORDERS
 
Date: December 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Maria Gabriela Vieyra (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
California Medical Pharmacy, Inc. and David Liautaud (“Defendants”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an
employment relationship. The complaint alleges: (1) harassment based on
sex/gender/race and national origin in violation of FEHA; (2) discrimination
based on sex/gender/race and national origin in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation
in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent harassment, discrimination and
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) sexual battery; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; and (7) constructive tortious termination in
violation of public policy.   
 
            On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Quash, or in
the Alternative Modify, Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Records from a
Medical Provider and Protective Orders. Defendants filed an opposition on
November 18, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply on November 25, 2024.           
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1
states, “[w]hen a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, …, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the witness,
or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” There is no requirement that the motion contain a meet-and-confer
declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal resolution. (See
Id.) A motion to quash does require a separate statement, unless the party
being subpoenaed did not provide any response to the subpoena. (CRC Rule
3.1345(a)(5), (b)(6).)  
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense
of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. Discovery
may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,
tangible thing, or land or other property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
“[P]laintiffs¿are
‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific
[physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental
condition which they have put in issue by bringing [a] lawsuit, . . . they
are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated medical or
psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the past.”¿¿(Britt v.
Superior Court¿(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864¿[citation and footnote
omitted].)¿¿However, “. . . privacy interests may have to give way to [an]
opponent’s right to a fair trial.¿ Thus, courts must balance the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons
subject to discovery.”¿ (Vinson v. Superior¿Court¿(1987) 43 Cal.3d
833,¿842.)¿ 
 
            Plaintiff seeks to quash the
deposition subpoena issued to Maria Auxiliadora Medical Group (“MA Medical
Group”) on the grounds that “(1) the information sought is invasive of
Plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy and the physician-patient
privilege; (2) the information sought is not relevant to the subject matter of
this action, and is therefore not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence; and (3) the subpoenas are overbroad in scope
and not narrowly drawn and/or there is a less burdensome alternative to
production by subpoena.” (Mot. p. 2:6-10.) Plaintiff also seeks a protective
order for any medical documents produced by MA Medical Group. 
 
The
subpoena seeks the following information: “Any and all medical records, medical
charts, documents, notes, explanation of benefit forms, correspondence,
memoranda, or any and all other written documentation including electronically
stored information, including emails, concerning any and all medical treatment,
laboratory services rendered or prescriptions issued relating to any illness,
injuries or sickness relating to any mental, emotional or psychological injury,
illness or sickness and relating to any claim of injuries, and any and all
medical records, notes, charts, MRI reports, scan reports, (no X-rays)
regarding all medical treatment” pertaining to Plaintiff from January 1, 2018
to present. (Nevarez Decl., Ex. 1.) 
 
In
Plaintiff’s complaint she alleges both mental injuries and general “medical
attention” as a result of Defendant’s alleged actions. (Opp. pp. 7:25-8:1,
citing Complaint at ¶¶ 21-22, 30, 32, 40, 42, 47, 49, 56-57, 76, 78.) Plaintiff
states that she “has suffered mental anguish and emotional suffering” and also that
as a result of the alleged harassment, she “was required to and did seek
medical attention, and will need medical attention in the future.” (Complaint,
¶ 20, 22.) Additionally, in response to interrogatories, Plaintiff states she
is suffering “depression, anxiety, stress, fear, embarrassment, humiliation,
anger, lack of sleep, PTSD, lack of self-esteem, nightmares, weight gain, high
blood pressure, and chest pains.” (Opp. p. 8:2-5, citing Response to Form
Interrogatory Employment Law Nos. 210.4, 212.2, 212.3.212.4.) While there can
be no dispute that Plaintiff has a legally protected privacy interest with
respect to her medical records, she may not withhold information that relates
to the conditions for which she seeks redress in this lawsuit. Plaintiff has
asserted both emotional distress and physical injuries, including weight gain,
high blood pressure, and chest pains. Moreover, Defendants have a compelling
interest in accessing the medical records pertaining to those injuries, and the
scope of discovery is broad.  (CCP § 2017.010 [allowing discovery of any
matter that is “relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action
or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either
is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence”].) As Defendants argue in their
opposition, the information sought by the subpoena is necessary to ascertain
whether Plaintiff’s claimed mental and physical conditions were caused by Defendant’s
alleged harassment. 
 
Plaintiff’s
argument that the subpoena should be limited to only psychological and
psychiatric records from July 18, 2022 to present is unavailing, because as
discussed above Plaintiff has asserted that she has suffered both physical and
mental injury. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s medical history prior to the date of the
alleged harassment on July 18, 2022, is relevant in determining whether
Plaintiff’s injuries were caused by the harassment or other factors. Thus, the
subpoena is proper.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash, or in the
Alternative Modify, Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena of Records from a Medical
Provider and Protective Orders is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



