 Case Number:  24STCV04497    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DARA SUE CRIPPEN, an individual,
   
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LYFT, INC., a corporation; WALTER
  ROBINSON; URIEL HERNANDEZ; DOES 1 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.





CASE NO.: 24STCV04497
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO
  PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date:  December 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTY: Walter
Robinson 
RESPONDING PARTY: Dara
Sue Crippen 
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Dara Sue Crippen (“Plaintiff’’) was riding in a vehicle driven by defendant Walter
Robinson when the vehicle collided with the vehicle driven by defendant Uriel
Hernandez. Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Lyft, Inc.;
Uriel Hernandez; and Walter Robinson (“Defendant”), alleging causes of action
for the following: (1) negligence; (2) negligence per se; (3) false
imprisonment; (4) assault; and (5) battery; and (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  
Defendant
filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the second through sixth causes of action
in the Complaint. Defendant also filed a motion to strike portions of the Complaint
(the “Motion”). Plaintiff filed oppositions to the Demurrer and to the Motion
and Defendant filed replies thereto.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
The
meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)
“[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation and treats the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Id.)  “The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations, giving them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.” (Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  
 
DEMURRER
Issue
No. 1: Second Cause of Action 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
negligence per se is not an independent cause of action because it is an
evidentiary doctrine. 
 
The negligence per se doctrine creates a
presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an event of the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury was part of the class of persons for whose protection
the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted. (Spates v. Dameron
Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218.) The doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause
of action but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of
care in a cause of action for negligence. (Johnson v. Honeywell
International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555.) 
 
            Based on the above, negligence per se is not separate
cause of action. 
 
            Thus, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the second cause of
action without leave to amend. (Minsky v. City of Los Angeles
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 113, 118–119.)
 
Issue
No. 2: Third Cause of Action
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s
allegations about false imprisonment are conclusory and contradictory. Plaintiff
alleges that defendant Walter Robinson intentionally and wrongfully deprived
Plaintiff of her freedom of movement by physically forcing Plaintiff into the
backseat of the vehicle after the collision occurred, and that the confinement
compelled Plaintiff to stand in front of Bisping for at least two to three
seconds without the ability to move anywhere else. Defendant argues that if
Plaintiff could stand, she could not have been forced in the backseat. 
Based
on the above allegations, Plaintiff has pleaded false imprisonment adequately. (Lyons v.
Fire Insurance Exchange (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 880, 888.) First,
contrary to what Defendant argues, Plaintiff does not need to plead more
specific details, such as how Defendant restrained, detained, or confined
Plaintiff. Defendant cites no authority, and no authority exists that supports
a more specific pleading requirement for false imprisonment. Second, without
more, the allegations do not contradict each other. In adjudicating a demurrer,
the court does not consider contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law. (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) Further,
in adjudicating a demurrer, the Court construes the allegations liberally.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  
 
            Thus, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the third
cause of action. 
 
Issue No. 3: Fourth Cause
of Action
            Defendant asserts that in alleging assault, Plaintiff
does not allege the type of conduct exhibited by Defendant, how Defendant acted
with the requisite intent, or how Plaintiff was allegedly harmed at the time of
the conduct. These are not requirements to plead assault. (So v. Shin
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
            Thus,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the fourth cause of action. 
 
Issue No. 4: Fifth Cause of Action 
            Defendant
demurs to the battery cause of action on the grounds that the pleadings are
contradictory because Plaintiff exited the vehicle and based on this, it is
unlikely Defendant struck Plaintiff repeatedly. Defendant also asserts that
Plaintiff incorrectly pleads negligent conduct, while battery is an intentional
tort. The Court does not find that the allegations are contradictory. As
discussed above, in adjudicating a demurrer, the court does not consider
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law and allegations are
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452; Berkley v. Dowds, supra,
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In addition, Plaintiff pleads intentional conduct.
(Compl., ¶¶ 50, 51, 55.) 
 
            Thus, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the fifth
cause of action. 
 
Issue No. 5: Sixth Cause
of Action 
            Defendant demurs to the intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action on the ground that Plaintiff
did not specifically plead outrageous conduct or that Defendant acted with the
necessary intent. Here, Plaintiff realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs
1 through 53 of the complaint, and the Court considers the conduct alleged in
those paragraphs: (1) Defendant’s driving; (2) Defendant forcing Plaintiff to stay
in the vehicle; (3) Defendant’s assault; and (4) Defendant striking Plaintiff
repeatedly, or Defendant’s battery. 
 
First,
the Court does not find Defendant’s driving to be extreme or outrageous because
car accidents are common, and Plaintiff does not plead that there was anything
uncommon about Defendant’s driving. Second, without knowing more about the
circumstances, the Court does not find the act of forcing Plaintiff to stay in
the vehicle to be extreme or outrageous. Plaintiff does not allege when
Defendant forced Plaintiff to stay in the vehicle or how Defendant forced
Plaintiff to stay in the vehicle. Third, without knowing more about the
circumstances, the Court does not find Defendant’s alleged assault to be
extreme or outrageous. Plaintiff does not allege when Defendant assaulted
Plaintiff, where Defendant assaulted Plaintiff, and how Defendant assaulted
Plaintiff. Fourth, without knowing more about the circumstances, the Court does
not find Defendant striking Plaintiff repeatedly to be extreme or outrageous.
Similarly, Plaintiff does not allege when Defendant struck Plaintiff, where
Defendant struck Plaintiff, and how Defendant struck Plaintiff. To avoid a demurrer, plaintiff must allege with “great
specificity” the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford,
Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144,
160–61.) In addition, contrary to what Defendant argues, there is no
specificity requirement to plead intent. Defendant cites to none, and none
exists to support that intent requires pleading specific facts. 
 
            Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to this cause of
action with 20 days leave to amend. 
             
MOTION
TO STRIKE
            Defendant filed a motion to strike portions of the complaint,
specifically punitive damages allegations. 
 
To
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, a plaintiff must
plead the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief. (Clauson v. Super. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil Code, Section 3294 authorizes
punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.  Malice is defined as either “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others.”  (Civil
Code § 3294(c)(1).)  “Despicable conduct
is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th
306, 331.)  Fraud under California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  California Civil Code, Section 3294(2) defines oppression as “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.” 
Punitive damages thus require more than the mere commission of a
tort.  (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)  Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages.  (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-392.)  A “conclusory characterization
of [a] defendant’s conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent [is] [a]
patently insufficient statement of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 865.) Facts must be pled to show that
a defendant “act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a
conscious disregard of the plaintiff’s rights.” 
(Silberg v. California Life Ins.
Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.)  
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion to strike indicates that she seeks punitive damages
solely based on that Plaintiff specifically pleaded the third, fourth, and
sixth causes of action. The Court finds that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts
sufficient to state a claim for punitive damages against defendant Walter
Robinson and that Plaintiff pleaded the mere commission of torts. Further, Plaintiff
makes conclusory characterizations of Defendant’s acts and omissions as fraudulent,
malicious or oppressive.  
 
As
such, the complaint does not state sufficient facts to support punitive damages
claims against Defendant.  
 
            The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s request to strike punitive damages with 20 days leave
to amend.  
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 4th day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



