  Case Number:  21STCV05171    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Taylor v. Solgat
21STCV05171
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct a Second Physical Examination of
Plaintiff
Tentative
The motion is denied.
 
Background
On February 9,
2021, Julie Taylor (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Amber Solgat (“Solgat”),
City of Pomona (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), and Does 1 through
25, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of an alleged accident on July 23, 2020.
On March 2,
2021, Solgat and City (collectively “Defendants”) filed answers to the
complaint. 
On March 9,
2021, County filed an answer to the complaint.
On July 30,
2021, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed County.
On October 23,
2023, Plaintiff was subject to a physical examination by Defendants’ orthopedic
surgeon Michael P. Weinstein, M.D.  (Suarkeo
Decl., ¶ 5.)  On October 7, 2024, Defendants
requested that Plaintiff agree to a second physical examination, this one by neurologist
Kenneth L. Nudelman, M.D.  (Id., ¶
8 & Exh. B.)  Plaintiff
declined.  (Ibid.)
On October 23, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for
leave to conduct the second physical examination of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 6,
and Defendants filed a reply on November 13. 
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition … of that
party or other person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)
Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd.
(b).) The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).)  
Discussion
The Court begins with three procedural issues.
First, despite Defendants’ statement in their opening memorandum to the
contrary (Mem. at 6:19), a meet and confer is required before filing a motion for
leave to conduct a second physical examination of Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b).)  That requirement is satisfied here. 
 (Suarkeo Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. B.)  
Second,
Plaintiff is correct that, under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, the
motion should have been entitled a motion for leave to conduct a second
physical examination, rather than a motion to compel.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (a).)  But the substance of
Defendants’ motion is a motion for leave, and Defendants bring their motion under
section 2032.310.  The substance of the
motion, not the title, controls.  The
Court will not deny Defendants’ motion based on the error in the title. 
Third, Defendants’ motion does not comply with the
procedural requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.310.  The statute requires that a motion for leave
to conduct a second physical examination must “specify” (among other things)
the “manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b).)  The order granting such a motion
must “specify” (among other things) the “manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) 
Defendants, in their moving papers, propose the
following scope of examination:
“The examination will consist of a general
neurologic examination and may include the taking of a history, medically
recognized diagnostic tests for the purpose of a diagnosis and evaluation of
plaintiff’s injuries, radiographic studies of the injured or affected areas,
and further tests that may be deemed necessary by the examining physician. None
of the tests will be painful, protracted, or invasive.” 
(Mem. at 7:17-22.)  But Defendants
do not specify which “medically recognized diagnostic tests” Dr. Nudelman will
conduct.  Moreover, Defendants state that
the examination may include “further tests that may be deemed necessary” –
essentially allowing Dr. Nudelman to conduct any testing that he, in his sole
discretion, “deem[s] necessary.”  
In effect, Defendants ask the Court to order that Plaintiff to submit to
a neurological examination that is so open ended as to be without any meaningful
limitation.  That is directly contrary to
what the Civil Discovery Act requires.
As Defendants have not specified the manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, Defendants’
motion is denied.
The Court need not reach, and does not reach, the other legal arguments
in Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion.
Finally,
Plaintiff requests sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240,
subdivision(c). The Court notes this code sections relates to a motion to
compel an initial independent medical examination, not a second physical
examination, as Defendants requested her under Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.310. Moreover, the Court finds that although the motion is denied, Defendants
have acted with substantial justification. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.
Conclusion 
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for
leave to conduct a second physical examination of Plaintiff.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.