 Case Number:  23CHCV01552    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/6/24
Case #23CHCV01552
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 4/16/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Topa Insurance Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Zuolin Cao
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
1.      Defendant’s
reply to Plaintiff’s request for legal assistance is against the facts,
violates the law and lacks fairness
2.      Defendant
failed disclosure duty by California Insurance Law depriving Plaintiff’s right
to be informed
3.     
Defendant’s misconduct, suspicion of commercial
fraud
4.     
Defendant made both mistakes in handling
Plaintiff’s property insurance policy and in reply to Plaintiff’s request
defense, therefore, was obliged to indemnify, pay a civil penalty, and return
the premium

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Zuolin Cao’s
(Plaintiff) dissatisfaction with Defendant Topa Insurance’s (Defendant)
handling and denial of the claim for her defense in an underlying action.  
 
Since 2015, Plaintiff had an insurance policy (the
Policy) issued by Defendant for Plaintiff’s real property located at 10500
Alabama Ave. in Chatsworth, California 91311 (the Property).  (Amended Complaint, Ex.1; Original Complaint,
Attachment Item 8 ¶1).  On 6/26/18, the
body of the Plaintiff’s tenant’s mother was found in the swimming pool of
Plaintiff’s property.  (Amended
Complaint).  
 
The tenant sued Plaintiff for wrongful death (Underlying
Action).  Id.  The Policy issued by Defendant to Plaintiff
for the Property did not include liability insurance.  (Id., Ex.1).  Therefore, Defendant declined to extend
coverage for Plaintiff’s defense in the Underlying Action.  (Id. at ¶¶1-2).  Plaintiff alleges that it was
Defendant’s  fault that she did not have
liability coverage for the Property.  Id.  Plaintiff did not retain counsel to represent
her in the Underlying Action.  (Original
Complaint ¶6).  Ultimately, the
Underlying Action was voluntarily dismissed. 

 
On 5/30/23, Plaintiff, representing herself, filed this
action against Defendant alleging claims for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Failed
Defense/Rejected to Defend Plaintiff; (3) Policy Did Not Comply With the Law;
(4) Failed to Comply With the Code of Insurance Procedure; 
(5) Fiduciary Duty and (6) Insurance Provided by
Defendant to Plaintiff Was Defective. 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the issues Defendant had
with the complaint, on 1/16/24, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the
entire complaint on the grounds that it failed to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action and was uncertain. 
CCP 430.10(e), (f). 
Plaintiff  opposed the demurrer
and Defendant filed a reply to the opposition. 
On 2/15/24, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to
amend.  (See 2/15/24 Minute
Order).  
 
On 3/14/24, Plaintiff, still representing herself, filed
the subject Amended Complaint alleging the following “causes of action”: (1) “Defendant’s
reply to Plaintiff’s request for legal assistance is against the facts,
violates the law and lacks fairness;” (2) “Defendant failed disclosure duty by
California Insurance Law depriving Plaintiff’s right to be informed;” (3) “Defendant’s
misconduct, suspicion of commercial fraud;” (4) “Defendant made both mistakes
in handling Plaintiff’s property insurance policy and in reply to Plaintiff’s
request defense, therefore, was obliged to indemnify, pay a civil penalty, and
return the premium.”  After meet and
confer efforts failed to resolve the issues Defendant had with the Amended
Complaint, on 4/16/24, Defendant filed and served the instant demurrer to the
entire Amended Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.  CCP 430.10(e), (f).  Plaintiff has opposed the demurrer and
Defendant has filed a reply to the opposition. 
On 6/3/24, Plaintiff improperly filed a document titled “Reply to
Defendant’s Reply In Support Plaintiff’s Opposition to Demurrer and Amended
Complaint” along with Plaintiff’s declaration.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.  
 
Entire Amended Complaint
 
Based on the Declarations page of the Policy, which is
attached to the Amended Complaint as part of Exhibit 1, the Policy provides no
personal liability coverage (NOCVG).  (See
Amended Complaint, Ex.1).  Therefore, any
claim that Defendant failed to provide liability coverage, or an associated
defense, fails.
 
1st cause of action – “Defendant’s reply to
Plaintiff’s request for legal assistance is against the facts, violates the
law, and lacks fairness”
 
First, the cause of action fails for uncertainty because
it cannot be determined exactly what claim Plaintiff is attempting to
assert.  CCP 430.10(f).
 
To the extent Plaintiff intended to state a claim for
violation the Unfair Competition Law based on the citations to Business and
Professions Code 17200 and 17500, the claim fails because Plaintiff has failed
to plead any facts showing how Defendant deceived or misled Plaintiff.  Rather, Plaintiff makes conclusory
allegations which fail to apprise Defendant of the basis on which Plaintiff seeks
recovery.
 
To the extent the unfair competition law claim is based
on violations of certain insurance code sections, the claim also fails.  Plaintiff seems to claim that Defendant
violated Insurance Code 2070; however, this statute pertains to the requirement
that all fire policies be written on a standard form.  Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant did
not issue a standard form.  Insurance
Code 2070 does not require an insurer to have an insured elect all or certain
coverages provided on the form.  An
insurer has no obligation to provide advice to an insured regarding what
coverage the insured should procure.  See
Ray (1999) 77 CA4th 1039, 1049.  Rather,
it is for insureds to make their own coverage selections and to know the terms
of the policy they select.  Id.; See
also Everett (2008) 162 CA4th 649, 660.  Further, it is not a breach of contract for
the insurer to abide by the terms of the contract agreed to by the
insured.  Bevis (2019) 33 CA5th
230, 260.  Despite the foregoing law,
Plaintiff claims that Defendant intentionally or negligently omitted liability
coverage in the Policy.  (Amended
Complaint, p.4:20-22).
 
Based on the allegation that Defendant “disregarded
Plaintiff’s legitimate rights and interests and lacked fairness,” it appears
that that Plaintiff may be attempting to state claims for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing and/or breach of fiduciary duties.  However, an insurer cannot be liable for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing for not defending
or indemnifying an insured unless policy benefits are due and they were
unreasonably withheld or withheld without proper cause.  See Waller (1995) 11 C4th 1,
35; Love (1990) 221 CA3d 1136, 1151. 
Since the Policy did not provide coverage for personal liability, no
policy benefits were due.  
 
Any claim for breach of fiduciary duty fails because in
California there is no fiduciary relationship between an insurer and its
insured.  Love, supra; Henry
(1990) 217 CA3d 1405; Vu (2001) 26 C4th 1142, 1150-1151.
 
2nd cause of action – “Defendant failed
disclosure duty by California Insurance Law, depriving Plaintiff’s right to be
informed”
 
It is also unclear what claim Plaintiff is attempting to
assert in this cause of action.  As such,
it, too, fails for uncertainty.   
 
To the extent Plaintiff is attempting to allege that
Defendant violated disclosure requirements under Insurance Code 10101, 10102(d)
and 10103.5, the claim fails.  (See
Amended Complaint, p.6:14-p.7:7).  The
exhibits attached to Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint include the disclosure and
bill of rights she contends are missing. 
(See Amended Complaint, Ex.5, pp.7, 15-17, 23, 26-27).  Additionally, Plaintiff’s signature
acknowledges that she was provided a copy of the California Residential
Insurance Disclosure.  (See
Amended Complaint, Ex.6, pp.4, 10).  Even
if the disclosure was not provided, the purpose of such disclosure is to inform
insureds about types of dwelling coverage, not personal liability coverage
which is at issue in this case.  See
Insurance Code 10102.
 
Plaintiff is bound by the terms of the Policy she elected
regardless of whether she read or understood its terms.  Sarchett (1987) 43 C3d 1, 15; Hadland
(1994) 24 CA4th 1578, 1586.
 
 
 
 
3rd cause of action – “Defendant’s
misconduct, suspicion of commercial fraud”
 
It is not clear what Plaintiff is attempting to plead in
this cause of action as Plaintiff specifically states that she “does not want
to pursue Defendant’s liability for commercial fraud.”  (Amended Complaint, p.9:21-22).  As such, the claim fails for
uncertainty.  
 
Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant misrepresented
Plaintiff’s property as an owner-primary occupied property fails as the signed
policy application, submitted by Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s
representative/agent, advised Defendant that the property was owner-occupied.  (Amended Complaint, Ex.6, p.1).  Also, since Plaintiff does not dispute the
existence or validity of the Policy, her claim that her signature on same is a
forgery is immaterial.  See Kincer
(1970) 11 CA3d 714, 718 (signature of an insured on an application is not
necessary for the issuance of a valid insurance policy).  Additionally, even if Plaintiff did not
receive the complete policy, the portions received and which Plaintiff has
attached to the Amended Complaint establish that the Policy did not provide
personal liability coverage.  (Amended
Complaint, Ex.2, Declarations page).  
 
Further, as noted above, Defendant had no duty to ensure
the accuracy of Plaintiff’s application or to advise her as to what coverage
she should procure.  See Ray,
supra at 1049.  
 
To the extent that Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action is based on the claim that Defendant’s address is ambiguous making it
difficult for Plaintiff to serve Defendant in this action, Plaintiff fails to
explain how such provides a basis for any cause of action.
 
4th cause of action – “Defendant made both
mistakes in handling Plaintiff’s property insurance policy and in reply to
Plaintiff’s defense request, therefore was obliged to indemnify, pay a civil
penalty, and return the premium”
 
Again, it is not clear what Plaintiff is attempting to
allege in this cause of action. 
Therefore, the cause of action fails for uncertainty.  It appears that Plaintiff is merely setting
forth the reasons why she believes Defendant owes her damages.  However, as noted above, Plaintiff has failed
to allege sufficient facts to state any valid claim against Defendant.     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is
sustained.  Plaintiff’s own allegations,
arguments and evidence continue to establish that there was no liability
coverage under the applicable Policy for the claim made in the Underlying  Action. 
(See 2/15/24 Minute Order sustaining demurrer to the original
complaint).  Plaintiff has now had two
opportunities to plead her claims against Defendant and has failed to
adequately do so.  Further, Plaintiff
gives no indication that she can cure the defects in her Amended Complaint.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.  
 
 
 