  Case Number:  22AHCV00651    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 20, 2024                          TRIAL
DATE: May 20, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         ROBERT VILLA, an
individual; KATY VILLA, an individual, v. ADVANCED NUTRIENTS, INC., a Delaware
corporation; ADVANCED NUTRIENTS US LLC, a Washington limited liability company;
ADVANCED NUTRIENT SOLUTIONS NW, LLC, a foreign limited liability company; ADVANCED
NUTRIENTS LTD., a Canadian corporation; UNITED ELECTRIC WHOLESALE & TRADING
INC. dba UNITED HYDRO & GARDENING SUPPLY, a California corporation; STATE
OF CALIFORNIA, a government entity; and DOES 1-100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00651
 
 
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant 20/10 Products, Inc. 
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Robert Villa and Katy Villa
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant 20/10 Products, Inc. moves to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations for
punitive damages.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out
of Plaintiffs Robert Villa and Katy Villa (“Plaintiffs”) claim that on
September 7, 2021, Robert Villa was in a single-vehicle accident. Plaintiffs
allege that as a result of the accident, pH Up, spilled onto Robert Villa,
causing chemical burns, disfigurement, and blindness.
 
            Plaintiffs
filed a third amended complaint on September 18, 2023, alleging seven causes of
action for (1) strict product liability, (2) negligence, (3) failure to warn,
(4) negligent recall, (5) dangerous condition of public property, (6) loss of
consortium, and (7) violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant 20/10 Products, Inc.’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
20/10 Products, Inc. moves to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations for punitive
damages. Plaintiffs oppose. The Court notes that Defendant has not filed a
reply.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) 
 
            “ ‘Malice’
means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code section
3294, subd. (c)(1).)
 
            “ ‘When there is no evidence the
defendant intended to harm the plaintiff, there must be evidence of conduct
that is both willful and despicable. [Citation.]
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be found “ ‘where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.’ ” [Citation.] “ ‘Despicable
conduct’ is conduct that is ‘ “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched
or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.” ’ [Citation.] Such conduct has been described as having the character
of outrage frequently associated with crime.” ’ ” (McNeal v. Whittaker,
Clark & Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 872.) 
 
When the
defendant is a corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
 
            Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
knew of the danger of Soluble Lye, knew of “the critical importance of properly
packaging such a caustic substance,” knew “that the packaging was inadequate,”
and knew that Ph-Up “was defective and/or dangerous and/or knew would result in
injuries or death if not properly recalled from the public.” (Complaint, ¶¶29,
34, 37, 45(b).) Despite knowing the high probability of damage and injury that
could be caused by “a substance so dangerous that it is not permitted on
airplanes” and is used to “dissolve human bodies,” as alleged in the Complaint,
Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant consciously chose to disregard the
dangers; elevated their own economic interest above those of Plaintiff and the
public; sold, marketed, or distributed the dangerous product without warning
purchasers of the defective and dangerous nature of the product and its
container; and did so “maliciously to save money and reduce the costs of the
supply chain for this hazardous product with reckless disregard to the danger.”
(Complaint, ¶¶27, 31, 32, 45(d), 45(e).) Plaintiffs further allege Defendant
“decided to recklessly forego safety and only use on threaded cap to contain
the dangerous chemical in a gallon-sized bottle,” and despite having “exclusive
knowledge of the dangerously nonconforming nature of the defects” and actual
knowledge of other incidents involving the dangerous product, Defendant
“concealed these facts from Plaintiffs” and acted “with a reckless disregard
for their customers.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 32, 41, 86.) Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant 20/10 and their officers, directors and/or managing agents,
acted with oppression, fraud, or malice as they knew of, intended for,
ratified, and committed the acts which caused Plaintiffs’ damages and injuries.
(Complaint, ¶45.)
 
            The Court finds the allegations
sufficient at this pleading stage.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant 20/10 Products, Inc.’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
            
Dated:   May 20, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court