  Case Number:  23STCV01110    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



KAREN FLORES,
                                Plaintiff,
v.
EVERBRANDS, INC., a California corporation; EVERBRANDS,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MICHEAL FLORMAN, an individual; YON LAI, an
  individual, and DOES 1-25,
                               Defendants. 
 


 Case No.:          23STCV01110
 Hearing Date:   11/30/23
 Trial Date:        9/3/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
1)     Motion to Compel Responses
  to Form Interrogatories (Set 1), Sent to Michael Florman (General) and
  Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $3,620.51 Against Michael Florman and
  his Attorney of Record Allyson Thompson (CRS ID: 4116)
2)     Motion to Compel Responses
  to Form Interrogatories (Set 1), Sent to Everbrands, Inc. (Employment) and
  Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $3,134.01 Against Everbrands Inc. and
  their Attorney of Record Allyson Thompson (CRS ID: 5535)



 
Background Allegations
Pleadings
            Plaintiff Karen Flores (Plaintiff)
sues Defendants Everbrands, Inc., a California Corporation (Everbrands CA),
Everbrands, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (Everbrands DE) (collectively, Everbrands,
Inc.), Michael Florman (Florman), Yon Lai (Lai), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a January
18, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay a Minimum Wage, (2)
Failure to Pay Overtime, (3) Failure to Provide rest Breaks, (4) Failure to
Provide Meal Breaks, (5) Inaccurate Wage Statements, (6) Waiting Wage Penalties
(Cal. Labor Code §§ 201-203), (7) Unfair Competition and Unlawful Business
Practices – (Cal. Bus. Code § 17200), and (8) Failure to Provide Records. 
            The claims arise from allegations
that when Plaintiff was employed by Defendants, she was paid less than the
applicable minimum wage, was not compensated for overtime, and was not compensated
for and/or provided meal and rest breaks.
            
Motions
Before the Court
            These motions, the third and fourth
in a series of nine motions to compel filed by Plaintiff, arise from discovery
served by Plaintiff on July 24, 2023, as to Defendant Michael Florman and
Everbrands, Inc. The discovery at issue served on Defendant Michael Florman
were Form Interrogatories-General, while the discovery served on Everbrands,
Inc. were Form Interrogatories-Employment. Both were served on Allyson
K. Thompson, Esq., and Laura P. Birnbaum, Esq., Plaintiff’s counsel. On
September 11, 2023, substantive responses to both sets of discovery were
received by Plaintiff from Defense counsel, however the responses were not
verified. 
            Plaintiff sent a meet and confer
letter on September 19, 2023, but Defendant did not respond. On October 2,
2023, Plaintiff filed
the following motions that are presently before the Court: (1) Motion to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories (Set 1), Sent to Michael Florman (General) and Request for
Sanctions in the Amount of $3,620.51 Against Michael Florman and his Attorney
of Record Allyson Thompson (CRS ID: 4116) and (2) Motion to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories (Set 1), Sent to Everbrands, Inc. (Employment) and Request
for Sanctions in the Amount of $3,134.01 Against Everbrands Inc. and their
Attorney of Record Allyson Thompson  (CRS
ID: 5535) (hereinafter, “Motions”). Opposition Papers to both Motions were
filed by Defendant on November 15, 2023. Plaintiff then filed Reply Papers on
November 21, 2023.  
 
Discussion
 
Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Interrogatories  
            If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless
“[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2030.290, subds.
(a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a
party does not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 905-906.)
            If a motion
to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Analysis
- MOOT 
Plaintiff Flores filed this motion
for the express purpose of obtaining a court order that does two things: (1)
“order Defendant to provide verified responses, without objection to the
outstanding discovery,” i.e., FROGs, Set One; and (2) “issue sanctions in the
amount of $3,620.51 against Defendant and their attorney of record, jointly and
severally.” (See Mot., p. 6.)
It is true that, as served on
September 11, 2023, Everbrands CA’s responses to FROGs, Set One, were no
responses at all because they were unverified. (Mot., Shirdel Decl., Ex. 3
[Verification page stating verification would follow responses to FROGs, Set
One]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.250, subd. (a); Blue Ridge, supra,
202 Cal.App.3d at p. 344; Appleton, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at p.
236.)
However, on October 26, 2023—after
Plaintiff filed her motion on October 2, 2023—Defendant Florman verified
Everbrands CA’s responses to FROGs, Set One. That verification appears to have
been first served on Plaintiff Flores on November 14, 2023, when Everbrands
CA’s opposition was filed. (Opp’n, p. 6, Thompson Decl. Ex. H.)
As a result, the September 11, 2023
responses have been supplemented with a verification that makes them facially
code-compliant.
Plaintiff Flores’s motion instead
argues that the September 11, 2023 responses are a nullity and that Everbrands
CA must present a completely new set of interrogatory responses that are
unqualified by objections, which have allegedly been waived. (Mot., p. 5.)
The Court disagrees with Plaintiff.
Instead, the Court finds that this motion has been MOOTED.
Plaintiff Flores brought this
motion to obtain verified responses to FROGs, Set One. The verification
attached to the opposition brought the September 11, 2023 responses up to Code.
Plaintiff thus has her verified interrogatory responses and has not provided
authority to the effect that, where substantive responses to written discovery
are made with verification to follow, a failure to verify within a certain
period of time renders the initial unverified responses a nullity such that subsequent
verification cannot remedy the lack of verification. The proper vehicle to
challenge the sufficiency of the now-verified September 11, 2023 responses to
FROGs, Set One, is to file a motion to compel further responses to FROGs, Set
One.
The Court does not reach the
question of whether objections to FROGs, Set One, were waived through lack of
verification, but the Court does note that the opposition contains facts that
would support relieving Everbrands CA of any waiver, should it exist. (Opp’n,
Thompson Decl., ¶¶ 4-11; Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a)(2).)
 
Sanctions- DENIED
            Although the motions are moot at
this point, the issue of sanctions still remains. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348 subd. (a).)
While the Court recognizes the
Plaintiff’s frustration at receiving these verifications late, the Court finds
that the imposition of sanctions in this case would be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc.
section 2030.300 subd. (d).) Defendant
argues that sanctions should be denied because of an inadequate service and
meet and confer, claiming the motions they were sent only by email without Plaintiff
confirming the correct email address as required by Code Civ. Proc. section
1010.6. They further point out that multiple mistakes were made in the proofs
of service, including the usage of a name that does not belong in this case. Further,
Defendants argue that the Motions should be denied because Plaintiff did not
engage in a good faith meet and confer when they only sent over one letter
during a time when Defendants’ counsel was heavily involved in preparing a
motion for summary judgment in a different case. (Declaration of Allyson
Thompson, ¶ 5.) 
The Court accepts Defendant’s representations
that the failure to provide the verifications was inadvertent, and finds that
the verifications were thereafter provided. Awarding sanctions in every case
where a motion to compel is filed before the responses are provided paints with
too broad a brush. When ruling on requests for sanctions in discovery, the
Court is called upon to distinguish between cases in which a party is either stonewalling
and failing to adhere to its duty to provide discovery, or taking needlessly
antagonistic or unreasonable positions in discovery on the one hand, and
inadvertence and mistakes on the other. Rare is the attorney who has never made
a mistake during litigation; not all such mistakes should result in sanctions.
On the other hand, where one party is taking unreasonable positions and failing
to cooperate, sanctions are an important tool in gaining cooperation or creating
consequences. 
Moreover, the amount of sanctions requested
in these two motions is excessive, where Plaintiff has filed at least three motions
on the subject of the failure to provide verifications which are identical but
for the precise item of written discovery at issue.
Therefore, the Court finds that the
imposition of sanctions in this matter would be unjust.
The Court again encourages the
parties to use the Court’s Informal Discovery Conference program which in this
case, could have saved Plaintiff from having to file at minimum the two instant motions to
compel and the one heard on November 29, 2023.
Having now reviewed the past four
motions, the Court declines to send the parties to a discovery referee at this
time, since the main issue at least in three of the four motions so far appears
to be the issue of sanctions. The Court will retain its right to consider a
referee in the future should the nature of the discovery disputes merit it.          
Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s two MOTIONS are DENIED
as MOOT and both requests for sanctions are DENIED.  