  Case Number:  21STCV23782    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Mi in Fashion, Inc.’s Motions to Compel Responses
to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production,
and to Deem Matters Admitted against Defendants Enk Apparel, Inc. and Jung Y.
Kim are GRANTED as to form and special interrogatories and requests for
production, and DENIED as to requests for admission. No sanctions are awarded. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice.
 
I.               
MOTION TO
COMPEL & DEEM ADMITTED
A propounding party may demand a responding
party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody or control.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct discovery by
propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under oath. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must respond to the
production demand either by complying, by representing that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by
answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the
responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and
interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) 
 
A
party who fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories or a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290,
2031.300.)
Likewise,
“[a]ny party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other
party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth
of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law
to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.010.) If a party fails to serve a timely response to requests for
admissions, “[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness
of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be
deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280 subd. (b).)
A
party who fails to timely respond to requests for admission waives all
objections to the requests. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff
Mi in Fashion (Plaintiff) moves to compel responses to form and special
interrogatories and requests for production, and to deem matters admitted
against Defendants Enk Apparel and Jung Y. Kim. Plaintiff claims that the
discovery at issue was served on August 31, 2023, with responses due by October
2. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 2.) No responses have been provided, however. (Jeong Decl. ¶
3.)
Defendants
in opposition argue that the motion is moot with respect to the requests for
admission and the related Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, as responses were served
on January 4, 2024, some 12 days before their oppositions were filed. (Lee
Decl. ¶ 18.) Defendants further argue that the motions are misplaced, as they
were filed and served while the parties were engaged in settlement discussions.
(Opposition at pp. 6–7.) Moreover, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s attorney,
Chan Yong Jeong (Jeong), was not authorized to serve the motions, as internal
communications between himself and Mi in Fashion’s principal indicate that he
was terminated as counsel on October 19, 2023, and was directed to cease
litigation activities while settlement proceeded. (Opposition at pp 4–5.)
The
motions are moot with respect to the requests for admissions, as Plaintiffs do
not dispute that responses have bene provided as of January 4, 2024. The other
motions, however, remain ripe for adjudication, and responses are properly compelled.
There was evidently no agreement to stay discovery during the relevant period,
as the email relied upon by Defendants for this proposition refers solely to
three other matters regarding Mi in Fashion, not the present matter.
(Opposition Exh. B.) Likewise, the timeline of these motions indicates they
were filed while Jeong remained counsel for Plaintiff. The email directing
Jeong to resign as counsel in the present matter was sent on October 19, 2023,
the day after the present motions were filed. (Opposition Exh. C.) And despite
prior directives that Jeong resign, his motion to be relieved was withdrawn,
and he remains counsel for Plaintiff, whose principal endorses the present
motions in a declaration submitted in reply.
It
is undisputed that the requests for production, special interrogatories, and
form interrogatories were served, and no response has been given, except to
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. Defendants argue that they should be given an
opportunity to assert objections and to move for a protective order, given the
high volume of discovery at issue here, numbering 472 special interrogatories
and 496 requests for production. (Opposition at pp. 2, 9–10.) No relief from
waiver of objections is appropriate, however, as that form of relief must be
sought “on motion,” and can only follow the subsequent service of “a response
that is in substantial compliance” with the Discovery Code. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290, subd. (a)(1); 2031.300, subd. (a)(1).) Because no responses to this
discovery have been given, no relief from waiver is appropriate. And as to
Defendants’ hypothetical motion for protective order, no such motion has been
brought, and no leave of court is required in advance of bringing such a
motion. Any such motion, however, is required by statute to be preceded by meet
and confer efforts. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).)
The
motions to compel are GRANTED as to form and special interrogatories, and as to
requests for production. The motions are DENIED as moot as to the requests for
admission.
II.  
SANCTIONS
Sanctions
are also mandatory against a party whose failure to serve responses to requests
for admission makes the motion necessary. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd.
(c).) Moreover, a court “may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the
motion was filed.” (CRC Rule 3.1348, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff
seeks $2,560.00 in connection with each of the eight motions to compel brought
here, representing five hours of attorney work at $500 per hour plus a $60
filing fee. (Jeong Decl. ¶ 4.)
No
sanctions are warranted. Although meet and confer efforts are not required
prior to motions to compel, such efforts here could have alleviated the
necessity of the present motions, especially given the high volume of discovery
at issue, the confused state of settlement discussions, and the equally
confused state of Plaintiff’s representation during the relevant period. No
sanctions are therefore awarded.