 Case Number:  23STCV1    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
LA Laser Center, PC’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.               
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendant LA Laser Center, PC
(Defendant) moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages contained in the
Complaint of Plaintiff Manuel Ruiz (Plaintiff). (Motion at pp. 4–6.)
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:
“Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
“Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).) 
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
The facts alleged here support a
prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated after
raising multiple complaints of discriminatory and illegal conduct by two of
Defendant’s employees, and was terminated for pretextual reasons: false
allegations of performance issues, and an unexcused absence that was in reality
for medical reasons and for which Plaintiff provided prior notice. (Complaint
¶¶ 6–20.) The allegations support a conclusion that Defendant “willfully and
consciously retaliated against [Plaintiff], in violation of Colucci's right to
complain of discrimination,” thus supporting a prayer for punitive damages. (Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.)
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 
 