 Case Number:  24TRCP00262    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka               Monday, November 18, 2024
Department M            Calendar No. 17  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Errica
Herring v. City of Inglewood, et al.
24TRCP00262

Errica Herring’s Petition for Order for Relief
     from Claim Statute   

 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
            Errica Herring’s Petition for Order
for Relief from Claim Statute is denied. 
 
            Background
 
            Petitioner filed the petition on July
5, 2024. Petitioner filed an amended petition on August 7, 2024. On March 11,
2023, Petitioner was injured descending a staircase. Petitioner failed to file
a claim within the six-month period pursuant to Gov. Code § 911.4. Petitioner
seeks relief from the claims filing statute. 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Respondent County of Los Angeles’
request for judicial notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code 452(d).
 
Petition
for Relief
 
Gov. Code § 946.6(a) provides:
“If an application for leave to present a claim is denied or deemed to be
denied pursuant to Section 911.6, a petition may be made to the court for an
order relieving the petitioner from Section 945.4.” “[T]he showing required for
relief under section 946.6 because of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect is the same as required under Code of Civil Procedure section
473 for relieving a party from a default judgment.” Ebersol v. Cowan
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 427, 435.
 
Petitioner moves for relief
from the claims filing statute based on the “mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
and excusable neglect of Petitioner. It was Petitioner’s understanding that
claim forms must be submitted within the six months of injury. Petitioner
mis-calendared the six-month deadline on his phone and set a 30-day warning of
said reminder to complete the forms or retain an attorney to assist him.”
(Notice of Petition, page 2, lines 11-15.) The Court notes that petitioner
failed to present any competent evidence to support the argument noted above
such as her own declaration. Instead, the petition is only supported by
arguments set forth in the points and authorities as well as a declaration from
petitioner’s attorney.
 
“Mistake is not a ground for
relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when the court finds that the
‘mistake’ is simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance
of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law.  Further, the term surprise, as used in
section 473, refers to some condition or situation in which a party is
unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his
own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.  Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, to
warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have been such as
might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same
circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean mere
inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify
relief.  It is the duty of every party
desiring to resist an action or to participate in a judicial proceeding to take
timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own person to
avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows
that he has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence
usually bestows upon important business his motion for relief under section 473
will be denied.  Courts neither act as
guardians for incompetent parties nor for those who are grossly careless of
their own affairs.  The only occasion for
the application of section 473 is where a party is unexpectedly placed in a
situation to his injury without fault or negligence of his own and against
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
Petitioner fails to establish
that she is entitled to relief pursuant to section 946.6(b) as she fails to
meet her burden to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the
failure to file a timely claim was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect. Department of Water
& Power v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293. “There must
be more than the mere failure to discover a fact; the party seeking relief must
establish the failure to discover the fact in the exercise of reasonable
diligence. The party seeking relief based on a claim of mistake must establish
he was diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim and must establish the
necessary elements justifying relief by the preponderance of the
evidence.”  Id. (internal citations and quotations omitted.)  Again, the motion is simply based on the
conclusory statements of counsel, noted above, and there are no facts to show
that the untimeliness was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect of the petitioner.  Instead, the
untimeliness resulted from inexcusable neglect apparently due to petitioner’s
own negligence in failing to either file the claim within the time required or
to discover the requirement to timely file a claim.
 
“A showing of reasonable
diligence is required to establish that the petitioner acted as a reasonably
prudent person. When excusable neglect is claimed based on ignorance of a fact
or failure to act on it, [a] person seeking relief must show more than just
failure to discover a fact until too late; or a simple failure to act. He [or
she] must show by a preponderance of the evidence that in the use of reasonable
diligence, he [or she] could not discover the fact or could not act upon it. Similarly,
when mistake is claimed, [t]he party seeking relief based on a claim of mistake
must establish he [or she] was diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim[.]
Under this standard, [f]ailure to discover the alleged basis of the cause of
action in time is [...] not a compelling showing in the absence of reasonable
diligence exercised for the purpose of discovering the facts. Further, the mere
ignorance of the time limitation for filing against a public entity is not a
sufficient ground for allowing a late claim. In most cases, a petitioner may
not successfully argue excusable neglect when he or she fails to take any
action in pursuit of the claim within the six-month period, including
making an attempt to retain counsel.” N.G. v. County of San Diego (2020)
59 Cal.App.5th 63, 74 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original).
 
Here, there are no facts
presented by petitioner of any action taken by her during the claims filing
period.  Instead, the facts, as presented
by petitioner’s counsel only, admits that any actions taken were after the six-month
time period by retaining counsel. There are no facts showing that petitioner
acted with reasonable diligence during the claim filing period. If it is true,
as stated in the notice, that petitioner knew of the six-month time requirement
then simply failed to calendar the date to file a claim, such action
constitutes inexcusable neglect. If petitioner was not aware of the time
requirement, she failed to exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining this
knowledge. 
 
In the Reply, petitioner
appears to now attempt to argue that relief is warranted due to attorney
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. However, relief under this
provision is not available since the attorney was contacted only after the six-month
period and thus the failure to calendar the filing date could not have been due
to the conduct of the attorney. In any event, the mandatory provision of
Section 473(b) appears to only apply to an entry of default or default judgment
as opposed to the failure to file a timely government claim.
 
For the foregoing reasons,
petitioner’s Petition for Order for Relief from Claim Statute is denied.
 
Respondent County of Los
Angeles is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 