  Case Number:  21TRCV00034    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Monday, November 18, 2024
Department M                                                                                                             Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Blake
Williams v. City of Torrance, et al.   
21TRCV00034
1.      Blake Williams’ Motion for Leave to File Third Amended
Complaint and/or Supplemental Complaint 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Blake Williams’ Motion for Leave to
File Third Amended Complaint and/or Supplemental Complaint is granted, in part.

 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January 15, 2020. The
operative Second Amended Complaint was filed on September 10, 2021. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was employed as a police officer with
the City of Torrance. In late 2019, Plaintiff was investigated for an arrest he
made outside of his assigned beat. In 2020, Plaintiff was involved in a vehicle
pursuit which he terminated. Thereafter, he was improperly investigated in
contravention of his rights under the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of
Rights Act. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Violation of
the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act, Gov. Code Sections
3303, et seq.; 2. Declaratory Relief; 3. Labor Code 1102.5.
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
A supplemental pleading is used to allege relevant
facts occurring after the original pleading was filed.  CCP § 464(a). 
“Because a supplemental complaint is merely in aid of the case made by
the original, it cannot change the nature of the case. It is therefore the
general rule that a different cause of action cannot be set up by a
supplemental complaint but must be pleaded in a new action.”  5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 5th Plead § 1251
(2008).  However, in such a scenario, the
court would most likely have consolidated the new action with the existing
action.  See, Strickler v. Eisner (1935) 5 Cal.App.2d 441, 444.  In Perkins
v. Benguet Consol. Mining Co. (1942) 55 Cal.App.2d 720, 773-74, the court
allowed a supplemental pleading to allege a new cause of action when the new
cause of action was deemed to cover subsequently accruing installments of a
contract. “While it is the rule generally that a new cause of action may not be
set up by supplemental complaint, that rule is not of inevitable
application.”  Id. at 773.  
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a Third Amended
Complaint and/or supplemental complaint.  

 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff appears to have complied with Rule
3.1324(a). Plaintiff appears to state the allegations that were added to the TAC
and those that were omitted. (Motion, pages 3-6; Decl., Corey Glave, ¶ 4.)  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided a declaration meeting elements (1)
to (4) above. (Decl., Corey Glave, ¶¶ 6-20.) 

 
The Court notes that a copy of the proposed Third
Amended Complaint was not filed with the motion. The Court presumes that the
proposed Third Amended Complaint is the same as the one filed with the prior
motion filed on September 20, 2024.  If
the parties agree that this is, in fact, the very same pleading that is now
sought to be filed with the instant motion, the Court will take judicial notice
of the Court’s own file and deem that pleading to be the same pleading that is
now sought to be filed with the instant action.  If the parties do not agree, then, the motion
must be denied without prejudice, once again, as the motion does not meet the
requirement of filing the proposed pleading with the motion.
 
The Court also notes that the proposed Third Amended
Complaint appears to include allegations of conduct on the part of Defendants
which occurred after January 14, 2021. Of course, a supplemental pleading may
be sought to be filed based on new facts occurring after the filing of the
original Complaint. “It is the general policy that courts should exercise
liberality in permitting the filing of supplemental pleadings when the alleged
‘occurring-after’ facts are pertinent to the case. Nonetheless, the motion to
file a supplemental pleading is addressed to the sound legal discretion of the
court, and its ruling will not be disturbed on appeal in the absence of a
showing of a manifest abuse of that discretion. There is no such showing in the
instant case. Moreover, the court
properly denied the motion on the basis that the supplement to the complaint
sought to introduce new causes of action.” Flood v. Simpson (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 644, 647. 
 
Here, the new supplemental allegations consist of the
following: “Athan and the Department were not done
retaliating against Plaintiff. Athan, in a pursuit incident that Plaintiff was
cleared by a sergeant, lieutenant and captain, orchestrated yet another
Personnel Complaint against Plaintiff.” This allegation provides no facts
that would be relevant or pertinent to the instant action which pertains
specifically to the three incidents which the parties all agree are the incidents
that form the basis for the alleged POBRA violations. Plaintiff admits and
acknowledges that no new cause of action is being asserted by this new
allegation. However, this new allegation would only be relevant to any new
investigation and/or subsequent retaliation pertaining to an entirely new
pursuit incident that would not be covered within the three prior incidents
already raised. 
 
Thus, the motion is granted, in part. On the Court’s
own motion, pursuant to CCP § 436, the Court strikes, from the proposed
pleading, the language noted above: “Other Retaliation Athan and the Department
were not done retaliating against Plaintiff. Athan, in a pursuit incident that
Plaintiff was cleared by a sergeant, lieutenant and captain, orchestrated yet
another Personnel Complaint against Plaintiff.” 
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to file and
serve the proposed Third Amended Complaint with the above language stricken
within three days of this date.
 
            The Court will confer with the
parties regarding the status of the pending Motion for Summary Judgment.  If the parties stipulate, the Court can treat
all filings that have already been submitted as applying to the Third Amended
Complaint and simply reset the MSJ for hearing after the holidays. If the
parties do not stipulate, the MSJ will have to go off calendar and Defendant
will have to file a new MSJ pertaining to the operative pleading.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.