 Case Number:  23STCV15503    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YING WANG, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DCH TORRANCE IMPORTS, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15503
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO DISQUALIFY
  PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 11, 2024



 
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff Ying
Wang filed this action against Defendant DCH Torrance Imports Inc. dba DCH Toyota
of Torrance.  On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
On
May 2, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to disqualify The Law Offices of Gary R. Carlin
as counsel for Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
filed a surreply on June 7, 2024.  Although
this filing was not authorized, the Court will still consider it because Defendant
submitted new evidence with its reply.
LEGAL
STANDARD
“‘A
trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent
in every court “[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial
officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding
before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.”’”  (Ontiveros v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
686, 694, quoting People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change
Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145 (SpeeDee Oil).)  “‘[D]isqualification motions involve a conflict
between the clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical
standards of professional responsibility.’” 
(Id. at 694-695.)  “When deciding
a motion to disqualify counsel, ‘[t]he paramount concern must be to preserve public
trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.  The important right to counsel of one’s choice
must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our
judicial process.’  [Citation.]”  (O’Gara Coach Co., LLC v. Ra (2019) 30
Cal.App.5th 1115, 1124.)  The decision to
grant or deny a motion to disqualify counsel is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Id. at p. 1123.)
DISCUSSION
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s Counsel has misrepresented numerous conflicts of interest
among concurrent clients and failed to explain all circumstances, material risks,
and foreseeable adverse consequences of his simultaneous representation to each,
in violation of Rule 1.7 of the California Rules of Professional Conduct.  (See Motion at p. 1.)
Under
Rule 1.7, a lawyer shall not, without written informed consent, represent a client
if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the same or a separate
matter, or if there is a significant risk that the lawyer’s representation of the
client will be materially limited by the lawyer’s responsibilities to or relationships
with another client.  “‘Informed consent’
means a person’s agreement to a proposed course of conduct after the lawyer has
communicated and explained (i) the relevant circumstances and (ii) the material
risks, including any actual and reasonably foreseeable adverse consequences of the
proposed course of conduct.”  (California
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.0.1(e).)
Defendant
notes that Plaintiff’s Counsel has filed numerous other employment actions on behalf
of other employees of Defendant, including one brought by Toufik Cherchar.  (Motion at p. 1; Noel Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A; Morse
Decl. ¶ 3.)  In this action, Plaintiff alleges
discrimination, retaliation, harassment by Defendant’s supervising managers.  Cherchar was Plaintiff’s direct supervisor during
her employment with Defendant, and he was the only General Sales Manager during
the relevant time period.  (Morse Decl. ¶¶
5-6, 12; Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 3; see Morse Decl. ¶ 11.)  Cherchar was also the supervisor who
confronted Plaintiff about the Business Attire and Appearance Policy.  (See Cocio Decl. ¶¶ 3-8; FAC ¶ 21.)  Cherchar initiated or approved all three of Plaintiff’s
performance write ups, the decision to move her to floor sales, and the decision
to terminate her employment.  (Morse Decl.
¶ 12; Gonzalez Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
Defendant
therefore argues that Plaintiff and Cherchar are directly adverse to each other
(even though Cherchar is not a defendant in this action), and Plaintiff’s Counsel
cannot reasonably believe that they can provide competent and diligent representation
to both Plaintiff and Cherchar.  (Motion at
pp. 9-11.)  Defendant provides a specific
example of deposing Cherchar and requiring his testimony at trial, at which time
Plaintiff’s Counsel will presumably also defend Cherchar’s deposition and cross-examine
him at trial.  (Motion at pp. 12-12; Reply
at p. 2.)  Although Plaintiff’s Counsel
believes that “[b]oth Toufik [Cherchar] and Wing Yang [sic] are victims here”
and they will not need to cross-examine Cherchar (Welden Decl. ¶ 3), it is
undisputed that Cherchar was the supervisor whose actions form the basis of
Plaintiff’s claims.  In order for
Plaintiff to prevail, she will need to prove that Cherchar or another employee (on
Defendant’s behalf) wrote her up due to unfairness and bias.  (See FAC ¶¶ 18.)  Plaintiff’s Counsel will be materially
limited in advocating for this position while simultaneously representing an
alleged bad actor.  This also places
Plaintiff’s Counsel in breach of his undivided duty of loyalty to
Plaintiff.  (See Flatt v. Superior
Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 289 [“the duty of loyalty to the client forbids
any act that would interfere with the dedication of an attorney’s ‘entire
energies to [the] client’s interests’”].) 
“A client who learns that his or her lawyer is also representing a
litigation adversary, even with respect to a matter wholly unrelated to
the one for which counsel was retained, cannot long be expected to sustain the
level of confidence and trust in counsel that is one of the foundations of the
professional relationship.”  (Id.
at p. 285.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff’s Counsel asserts that “Defendants are smearing Plaintiff’s
lawyers” through this “frivolous motion,” and “Defendants are accusing other lawyers
of ethical violations arguably without knowing what they are talking about.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  “There never was any conflict but we sought the
Waivers in a surfeit of caution.”  (Welden
Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff’s Counsel obtained
conflict waivers from both Plaintiff and Cherchar, and he would not have represented
the clients without waivers.  (Opposition
at p. 2; Carlin Decl. ¶ 1.)  “Ms. Ying readily
agreed to sign a waiver regarding Toufik [Cherchar] and Toufik did the same for
Ms. Ying after I and Mr. Welden explained the facts to both clients.”  (Carlin Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff’s
waiver was signed on December 10, 2023—five months after this action was filed.  Cherchar’s waiver was signed on May 6, 2024—four
days after Defendant filed this motion, and six months after Cherchar’s action was
filed on November 2, 2023.  (See Noel Decl.
¶ 3 & Ex. A.)  This means that from at
least November 2, 2023 (Cherchar’s complaint) through December 10, 2023 (Plaintiff’s
waiver), Plaintiff’s Counsel represented both parties without Plaintiff’s informed
consent.  Plaintiff’s Counsel continued to
represent both parties without Cherchar’s informed consent until May 6, 2024.  It is demonstrably untrue that “[t]here never
was any conflict” (Welden Decl. ¶ 3) and that Plaintiff’s Counsel “would never have
represented Ying Wang and Toufik Cherchar without obtaining their Waivers” (Carlin
Decl. ¶ 1).
Additionally,
the Conflict of Interest Waivers are wholly inadequate to constitute written informed
consent to the simultaneous representation. 
Each one-page waiver states that the client (Plaintiff or Cherchar) “agrees
and acknowledges that to the extent there may be or actually is a conflict of interest”
with the other client, they waive the conflict of interest.  (Carlin Decl., Exs. A-B.)  They acknowledge that the law firm did not pressure
them to sign, and the conflict of interest waiver was made “knowingly, intentionally,
deliberately, and with a full understanding of its affect [sic] and consequences.”  There is no evidence that the clients indeed understood
“the material risks, including any actual and reasonably foreseeable adverse consequences
of the proposed course of conduct,” or that Plaintiff’s Counsel sufficiently explained
those risks.  (See California Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 1.0.1(e).)  Plaintiff’s Counsel
declares only that he “explained the facts to both clients.”  (Carlin Decl. ¶ 5.)
Under
these circumstances of simultaneous adverse representation and no evidence of actual
informed consent, disqualification is necessary to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility and to preserve the integrity of these proceedings.  (See SpeeDee Oil, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
p. 1145.)
CONCLUSION
The
Motion to Disqualify Counsel is GRANTED. 
The Law Offices of Gary R. Carlin is disqualified from representing Plaintiff
in this action.
Under
Canon 3D, subdivision (2) of the California Code of Judicial Conduct, “Whenever
a judge has personal knowledge, or concludes in a judicial decision, that a lawyer
has committed misconduct or has violated any provision of the Rules of Professional
Conduct, the judge shall take appropriate corrective action, which may include reporting
the violation to the appropriate authority.”
Accordingly,
the Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re: Reporting to the State Bar on September
13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  No later than five
court days before the hearing, the parties may submit supplemental briefing, not
to exceed five pages, on whether the Court should report this violation to the State
Bar of California. 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 