 Case Number:  23STCV12130    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DR. DAVID A. GEIGER,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NATIONAL VETERINARY ASSOCIATES, INC.., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12130
 
[TENTATIVE] SUSTAINING IN PART AND OVERRULING
  IN PART DEMURRER; GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 11, 2024



 
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff Dr.
David A. Geiger filed this action against Defendants National Veterinary Associates
Inc., Ethos Veterinary Health LLC, Ethos-California Veterinary Group Inc., Leilani
Way, Madisyn Bonestell-Jensen, and Michelle Connearney.
On
July 14, 2023, National Veterinary Associates Inc., Ethos Veterinary Health LLC,
and Ethos-California Veterinary Group Inc. filed a demurrer and motion to strike,
which Madisyn Bonestell-Jensen later joined. 
On October 17, 2023, the Court sustained in part the demurrer with leave
to amend.
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
On
November 18, 2023, all Defendants filed a demurrer and a motion to strike.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Facts Showing
Hostile Work Environment (Third Cause of Action).
To
establish a claim for harassment, a plaintiff must demonstrate that (1) he is a
member of a protected group; (2) he was subjected to harassment because he belonged
to this group; and (3) the alleged harassment was so severe that it created a hostile
work environment.  (See Aguilar v. Avis
Rent A Car Sys., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121.)  Whether harassment exists based upon a hostile
work environment is determined by considering all of the circumstances, which may
include frequency, severity, and job interference.  (Miller v. Dept. of Corrections (2005)
36 Cal.4th 446, 462.)
Defendants
argue that the FAC still lacks facts about the alleged harassment.  (Demurrer at pp. 7-8.)  Like in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants “bullied and harassed him about his disability and at times refused to
honor his known restrictions.”  (FAC¶ 17(e).)  Plaintiff “was chided by Defendants repeatedly
for not being able to work as early as other employees,” and “Defendants nonetheless
taunted him with comments like, ‘try to come in earlier’ and suggested that he was
letting down his team and patients by not being able to begin work as early as Defendants
wanted from him.”  (FAC ¶ 17(e).)  Plaintiff “was subjected to harassing conduct
through a hostile work environment, in whole or in part on the basis of plaintiff’s
disability . . . .”  (FAC ¶ 42.)  These are insufficient facts to show severe harassment
constituting a hostile work environment.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.  Because Plaintiff has not shown how he can remedy
the deficiencies (see Opposition at pp. 3-5), no further leave to amend is granted.
B.        Plaintiff Has Dismissed the Fifth Cause
of Action.
On
December 14, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the fifth cause of action for discrimination
on the basis of marital status.
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is therefore MOOT.
C.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Facts Showing
a Violation of Labor Code Section 970 (Tenth Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not meet the heightened fraud pleading standards for a
claim under Labor Code section 970.  (Demurrer
at p. 15.)
“To
prevail on a Section 970 claim, the plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant made
representations to the plaintiff about the kind or character of work, or the length
of time the work would last; (2) the defendant’s representations were not true;
(3) the defendant knew when the representations were made that they were not true;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representations; (5) the
plaintiff reasonably relied on the representations and changed his or her residence
for the purpose of working for the defendant; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and
(7) the plaintiff’s reliance on the defendant’s representations was a substantial
factor in causing his or her harm.”  (White
v. Smule, Inc. (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 346, 355-356.)
A
claim under section 970 sounds in fraud and is subject to the same particularity
requirements for pleading.  “‘This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.’  [Citation.] 
A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer
is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff
must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.’  [Citation.]”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.)
Plaintiff
alleges that before he accepted full-time employment in California in 2021, Defendants
said they would accommodate Plaintiff’s disability-necessitated schedule so that
he could start work in the late morning, among other representations.  (FAC ¶¶ 16(b), 106; see FAC ¶ 17(a).)  Jamie Ma and Defendant Bonestell-Jensen assured
Plaintiff that his needed accommodation would be provided.  (FAC ¶ 16(b).)  Defendants knowingly made these false statements.  (FAC ¶ 105.)
Plaintiff
still does not clearly and with specificity allege that Defendants intended that
Plaintiff would rely on the representations, the speakers’ authority to speak, how
the representations were made, and when the representations were made.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.  Because Plaintiff has not shown how he can remedy
the deficiencies (see Opposition at pp. 6-8), no further leave to amend is granted.
D.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Outrageous Conduct
for IIED (Eleventh Cause of Action).
The
eleventh cause of action for IIED is brought against all Defendants.  National Veterinary Associates Inc., Ethos Veterinary
Health LLC, Ethos-California Veterinary Group Inc., and Madisyn Bonestell-Jensen
did not demur to this cause of action in their original demurrer.  However, a party may not demur to any portion
of an amended pleading on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to the
earlier version of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)
Accordingly,
the Court considers the demurrer to this cause of action only also to Leilani Way
and Michelle Connearney, who previously filed only a motion to quash and did not
demur.
“‘[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’  [Citation.]  ‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’  [Citation.]” 
(Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA,
Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.) 
“While the outrageousness of a defendant’s conduct normally presents an issue
of fact to be determined by the trier of fact [citation], the court may determine
in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may reasonably be regarded
as so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.”  (Trerice v. Blue Cross of California (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)  When a plaintiff
does not suffer physical injury, the conduct must involve “extreme and outrageous
intentional invasions of one’s mental and emotional tranquility.”  (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970)
2 Cal.3d 493, 498.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Way “brusquely denied Dr. Geiger’s request to combine the individual
meetings into a group meeting, which all of the staff wanted.”  (Complaint ¶ 17(v)(4).)  “When he pushed back with Way and other managers
via e-mail to insist on a group discussion and to confirm that both VSH colleagues
and colleagues at other Ethos hospitals had requested the same, he received no response
from Way, but soon afterward the attempts to force contract modifications were abandoned.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff “believes that this was the only interaction
he had with defendant Way before she personally fired him, about two months later.”  (Ibid.)
Connearney,
a human resources senior practice partner, was part of the in-person termination
of Plaintiff’s employment.  (Complaint ¶¶
8, 18(a).)  She initially disclaimed knowledge
of Plaintiff’s disability, but she later acknowledged that her notes indicated that
Plaintiff “on medication, hard to work in mornings.”  (Complaint ¶ 18(a).)
This
conduct by Way and Connearney is insufficient to support IIED.  “In order to properly manage its business, every
employer must on occasion review, criticize, demote, transfer and discipline employees.  Employers are necessarily aware that their employees
will feel distressed by adverse personnel decisions, while employees may consider
any such adverse action to be improper and outrageous.  Indeed, it would be unusual for an employee not
to suffer emotional distress as a result of an unfavorable decision by his employer.”  (Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist.
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160.)
The
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is OVERRULED as to National Veterinary
Associates Inc., Ethos Veterinary Health LLC, Ethos-California Veterinary Group
Inc., and Madisyn Bonestell-Jensen.
The
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED as to Leilani Way and Michelle
Connearney without leave to amend.
E.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART and OVERRULED IN PART as set forth above.
Defendants
are ordered to file an answer within 10 days. 
(See California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendants
move to strike the entire FAC for being filed one day after the Court’s deadline
for amendment.  The motion is DENIED on this
ground.
Defendants
move to strike language relating to punitive damages on Page 1 and in Paragraphs
21, 32, 39, 47, 55, 62, 69, 76, 81, 94, 108, and 113.  Defendants also move to strike the prayer for
exemplary damages.  A plaintiff can recover
punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  [Citation.] 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.  [Citation.]” 
(Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.)  Plaintiff’s allegations that the acts were “committed
intentionally, in a malicious, fraudulent, and/or oppressive manner” (see FAC ¶
32) are conclusory and do not allege specific facts.  “[W]rongful termination,
without more, will not sustain a finding of malice or oppression.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 702, 717.)  The
motion to strike is GRANTED on this ground without leave to amend.
If Plaintiff later obtains evidence supporting
punitive damages, he may seek leave to amend through a properly noticed motion.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 