  Case Number:  22STCV01351    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Terminating Sanctions for
Fabrication of Evidence and Witness Bribery
 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Sawyers S., Donlad D., Ayden M., Connor C., Hayden H., Walker B., Sophia F.,
Corinne D., Symonne H., Claire E., and Reese E. 
Resp. Party:    Defendants Tiffany Rockelle Smith Hunter Hill,
and Piper Rockelle, Inc.
 
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is
DENIED. 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
Although the Court is denying the motion for
terminating sanctions, it is making no ruling of what evidence will be admitted
at trial.  These will be issues to be
decided based on Motions in Limine or objections posed during the trial.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On January 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Sawyers
S., Donlad D., Ayden M., Connor C., Hayden H., Walker B., Sophia F., Corinne
D., Symonne H., Claire E., and Reese E. filed their Complaint against
Defendants Tiffany Rockelle Smith, Hunter Hill, and Piper Rockelle, Inc. The
underlying allegations involve the mistreatment and abuse of Plaintiffs, who
are all minors, in the production of Defendants’ YouTube channel.
 
        The Court has appointed the following
guardians ad litem in this matter: Ashley Anne Rock Smith on behalf of Claire
E. and Reese E.; Yvonne Dougher on behalf of Donlad D.; Tania Harrison on
behalf of Symonne H.; Heather Nichole Trimmer on behalf of Sophia F.; Amber
Nicole Cain on behalf of Connor C.; Carla Haas on behalf of Hayden H.; Angela
Sharbino on behalf of Sawyer S.; Jennifer Ann Bryant on behalf of Walker B.;
Stephenie Arecco on behalf of Corinne D.; and Maria Mekus on behalf of Ayden M.

 
        On September 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
        On October 10, 2023, Defendants filed
their Answer to the FAC.
 
        On March 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Motion for Terminating Sanctions for Fabrication of Evidence and Witness
Bribery (“Motion for Terminating Sanctions”). In support of their Motion for
Terminating Sanctions, Plaintiffs concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Angela
Sharbino; (2) Declaration of Yvonne Dougher; (3) Declaration of Tania Harrison;
(4) Declaration of Stephenie Areeco; (5) Declaration of Maria Mekus; (6)
Declaration of Jennifer Bryant; (7) Declaration of Heather Trimmer; (8)
Declaration of Carla Haas; (9) Declaration of Ashley Anne-Rock Smith; (10)
Declaration of Amber Cain; (11) Declaration of Matthew S. Sarelson; (12)
Plaintiffs’ Request to Introduce Oral Testimony at Hearing on Motion; and (13)
Proof of Service. 
 
        On March 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
 
        On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Amended Notice of Motion for Terminating Sanctions. 
 
        On April 16, 2024, Defendants filed
their Opposition to the Motion for Terminating Sanctions (“Opposition”). In
support of their Opposition, Defendants concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Tiffany Smith; (2) Declaration of Hunter Hill; (3) Declaration of Kenneth
Ingber; (4) Declaration of Jorge Hernandez; (5) Objection to Plaintiffs’
Request to Introduce Oral Evidence at Hearing on Motion; (6) Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Angela Sharbino; (7) Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Matthew Sarelson; (8) Proposed Order on Evidentiary Objections
to Declaration of Angela Sharbino; (9) Proposed Order on Evidentiary Objections
to Declaration of Matthew Sarelson; and (10) Proof of Service.
 
        On April 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their Reply in support of their Motion for Terminating Sanctions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 gives
the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a
misuse of the discovery process. A court may impose terminating sanctions by
striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering
default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) A violation of a
discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating
sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's
orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795–796.)
 
A terminating sanction is a "drastic
measure which should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra,
at p. 793.) 
 
"A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279–280.)
 
While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery." (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
his discovery obligations." (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be
imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of
discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as
stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971.)
 
"A trial court has broad discretion to
impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions . . . (1) absent unusual circumstances, there
must be a failure to comply with a court order, and (2) the failure must be
willful." (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1327; but see Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1291
["willfulness is no longer a requirement for the imposition of discovery
sanctions."].)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
        The issues at hand — whether
Defendants fabricated evidence and bribed (or attempted to bribe) a witness —
are both premature and disputed. This Court has made no orders finding that
Defendants have intentionally mislead the Court or committed (or attempted to
commit) felonies.  Unless the Court makes
such pre-trial orders, these are issues for the trier of fact to consider and
adjudicate at trial. To consider these issues now would involve multiple days
of evidentiary hearings. These issues will be considered at trial by a jury of the
parties’ peers, along with all of the other issues that have arisen in this
matter. 
 
        
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is
DENIED. 
 