 Case Number:  23STCV01630    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Answers at Deposition of Defendant Ha-Rakhamon Farhod Azizi
 
Moving Party: Eliyaho
Schefres
Resp. Party:    Ha-Rakhamon Farhod Azizi
 
 
The Motion to Compel Answers is GRANTED
in part. 
 
Azizi
shall attend a further deposition within thirty (30) days of the issuance of
this Order. At this deposition, Azizi shall answer the four questions above,
except that as to question #1, he is only required to answer as to any adult children.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
January 25, 2023, Eliyaho Schefres (“Schefres”) and Ramish Manglani
(“Manglani”) filed their Complaint against Ha-Rakhamon Farhod Azizi (“Azizi”)
(erroneously sued as Azizi Ha Rakhamon Farhod) on causes of action arising from
alleged negligence. 
 
        On
April 21, 2023, Azizi filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On
May 24, 2023, Azizi filed his Cross-Complaint against Peter Velasquez
Hernandez, Daniel Anselmo Arroyo, and Cali Exotic Rentals.  
 
        On
January 5, 2024, by request of Schefres and Manglani, the Clerk’s Office
dismissed with prejudice Manglani from the Complaint. 
 
        On
March 15, 2024, Schefres filed his Motion to Compel Answers at Deposition of
Ha-Rakhamon Farhod Azizi (“Motion to Compel Answers”). In support of his Motion
to Compel Answers, Schefres concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Brianna
Franco; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
        On
April 2, 2024, Azizi filed his Opposition to the Motion to Compel Answers. In
support of his Opposition, Azizi concurrently filed Response to Separate
Statement. 
 
        On
April 9, 2024, Schefres filed his Reply in support of his Motion to Compel
Answers. 
 
        On
April 10, 2024, Schefres filed his Notice of Lodging Deposition Transcript. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“Unless otherwise
limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any
motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party
seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. Discovery may be
obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody,
condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information,
tangible thing, or land or other property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
“Any party may
obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 2019.010), by taking in California the oral deposition
of any person, including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a
natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a
partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)
 
“If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
 
“This motion
shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
 
“If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption
of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (i).)
 
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (j).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Schefres
moves the Court to compel Azizi to compel Azizi to answer the following four
questions at a further deposition:
 
(1)      
“Do you
have any children?”
 
(2)      
“Where
are [your other properties] located?”
 
(3)      
“What
bank would you [deposit rental checks] at?”
 
(4)      
“You as
a property owner had an obligation to carry insurance on the property; is that
correct?”
 
(Motion to Compel
Answers, pp. 4:10–28, 5:4–6:3, 11:5–7.)
 
        Azizi opposes the Motion to Compel Answers, arguing: (1) that
the instructions of Azizi’s Counsel not to answer the first three questions
were proper based on Azizi’s constitutional right to privacy; and (2) that the
instructions of Azizi’s Counsel not to answer the fourth question was proper
based on the impropriety of asking a lay witness at an oral deposition a
question of law or a legal contention. (Opposition, p. 7:17–22.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
There
is no doubt that Azizi has the inalienable right to privacy under the
California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) The Court will apply the balancing test
outlined in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Association (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1 — and not the “compelling interest” standard — because the interests
discussed (the names of one’s children, the locations of one’s properties, the
locations of one’s banks, and whether one has insurance) are not interests
“fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Davis v. Super. Ct. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1015, 1020.) The balance of this information is in favor of
Schefres, who is attempting to obtain information pertinent to the issues in
this matter. However, the Court will limit the response to the first question
to any adult children Azizi has. The Court will not compel Azizi to answer the
first question as to any minor children he may or may not have. 
 
As
to the fourth question, the Court does not see the impropriety of the question.
In the context of the transcript, it appears that this question could have been
appropriate in order for Plaintiff’s Counsel to lay the foundation for any
number of subsequent questions, such as whether Azizi did in fact have
insurance on the property. Because the question was not asked for Azizi’s
opinion as an expert on the issue, the question is acceptable. 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Compel Answers is GRANTED
in part. 
 
Azizi
shall attend a further deposition within thirty (30) days of the issuance of
this Order. At this deposition, Azizi shall answer the four questions above,
except that as to question #1, he is only required to answer as to any adult children.
 