  Case Number:  21STCV21845    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel/Compel Further Discovery ResponsesMoving Party: Defendant Charles Edward Foster, Jr.Responding Party: Plaintiff City of Los AngelesTentative Ruling: Granted  BACKGROUNDThis lawsuit arises from an multi-vehicle collision on November 28, 2020. On March 13, 2024, Defendant electronically served discovery requests Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on Plaintiff. Responses were due on April 14, 2024. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff requested a two-week extension to provide responses, which was granted. On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff again requested a 7-day extension for Plaintiff to provide responses, which was granted. On May 6, Plaintiff provided responses to Defendant’s discovery requests. Defendant alleged the responses were not responsive.The parties met and conferred via phone call on May 31, 2024, after which Defendant sent an e-mail confirming the conversation.  Plaintiff responded to stating he would forward responsive documents. On June 7, 2024, Defendant met and conferred via phone again with Plaintiff. Defendant memorialized the phone conversation via e-mail, stating Plaintiff would have to June 29, 2024 to serve verified discovery responses and/or privilege log. MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues that to date, Plaintiff has failed to serve responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, which were propounded on March 13, 2024. (Motions to Compel p. 4.) Defendant also asserts that he has made good faith efforts to resolve these issues through meeting and conferring with Plaintiff.Defendant also requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $460.00 for each of Defendant’s two motion — totaling $920.00.OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should deny Defendant’s motions because they are entirely meritless. Plaintiff argues instead that the Court should issue a protective order to compel Plaintiff to cease taking part in impermissible conduct. Plaintiff additionally argues the Court grant sanction against Defendant.Plaintiff argues it provided code compliant responses to the Form Interrogatories but objected to the extent that they seek information protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, or the investigative privilege and are overly broad and ambiguous. REPLYDefendant disputes Plaintiff’s argument that defendant abused of the discovery process and emphasizes that Plaintiff’s failure to produce documents necessitated this motion.ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Discovery A party must respond to a request for production of documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom requests for production of documents is directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) A motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45–day time limit, and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a ‘meet and confer’ requirement.”¿ (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.)¿ Also, “[a] separate statement is not required when no response has been provided to the request for discovery.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)¿ Section 2030.210 of the California Code of Civil Procedure provides as follows: (a) The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by entering the following: (1) An answer containing the information sought to be discovered. (Cal Civ. Proc. Code § 2030.210 (West 2024).) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits. If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party. (Id. at § 2030.220.) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿ Here, there does not appear to be a dispute that Plaintiff failed to timely serve verified discovery responses.  After these motions were filed, Plaintiff then served the verifications.  As such, the Court will treat these motions as a Motion to Compel Further Responses.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409 [“In many cases involving untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without objection if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided to one or more interrogatories; it might deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it might treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either determine that further answers are required, or order the propounding party to “meet and confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar, thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion under section 2030.300.”].)After reviewing Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to provide basic information concerning the subject incident.  Specifically, Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that it sustained wage losses, general damages, property damage and payment of workers’ compensation benefits as a result of Defendant’s negligent operation of a vehicle.  However, Plaintiff’s discovery responses are silent as to wage losses, general damages, property damage or payment of workers’ compensation benefits.  The responses are also silent as to the details of the subject collision.  (See Plaintiff’s Response to Form Interrogatories, Set No. One).  These discovery requests go to the very foundation of Plaintiff’s claims, yet no substantive responses were provided.  Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, suggest that the City has no documentation supporting any of its claims.  Specifically, in responses to Request for Production Number 9 asking for documents evidencing proof of payment for any damage sustained by the City, Plaintiff responded that it has no such documents.  This directly contradicts allegations in Plaintiff's Complaint that it was required to pay workers’ compensation benefits.  The Court finds that the discovery at issue in this case does not request personnel records as defined in Penal Code § 832.7 or Evidence Code §§ 1043 and 1045.  Rather, it merely seeks information supporting Plaintiff’s liability and damages claims.  At the same time, the Court is sympathetic to the fact that some information contained in the workers’ compensation file may potentially invade the personal privacy rights of Officer McKinley.  In order to protect those rights, it would be appropriate for the parties to enter into a stipulated protective order regarding any documents reflecting Officer McKinley’s medical treatment and salary.  SanctionsDefendant requests $460.00 in sanctions against Plaintiff for each of Defendant’s two motions. The Court finds Defendant’s fees and expenses are all reasonable.RULINGPlaintiff is ordered to provide further responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents.  Plaintiff is further ordered to produce all documents responsive to the Request for Production of Documents, including any photographs or videos.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer as to a stipulated protective order to the extent that any portion of the production may involve Officer McKinley’s privacy rights pertaining to her medical treatment and salary.  Plaintiff to provide further responses and production within 30 days.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $920.00.  Sanction to be paid within 30 days.