 Case Number:  21STCV42525    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Set Aside DismissalMoving Party: Plaintiffs Yousef Salameh; Ayda Bdair Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTI. Background Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on November 17, 2021. (Jammal Decl. at 2:3.) The Court scheduled a hearing on an Order to Show Cause regarding Dismissal for May 22, 2024 and continued it to September 4, 2024. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to attend the hearing due to a calendaring mistake, leading the Court to dismiss Plaintiffs’ Complaint without prejudice. (Jammal Decl. at 3:11.)II. Discussion“It is … well established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in court and a trial upon the merits.”  (Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.) Section 473, subdivision (b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.) “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court has discretion to allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against’ a party or his or her attorney.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Id., internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd. (b).)  An application for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) must be made within a reasonable time and in no case, exceeding six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)Here, it is appropriate to grant Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside dismissal for excusable neglect. The dismissal was entered on Plaintiffs’ complaint due to their Counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect, specifically due to their inadvertent miscalendaring of a hearing leading to the dismissal of their action against Defendants. Plaintiffs’ counsel did not appear at the September 4, 2024 due to a mistake in calendaring the event—coupled with a busy litigation workload and a reliance on a calendar to stay on top of task deadlines. (Motion p. 7.) The Court is satisfied that Plaintiffs have proven that the Dismissal was a result of Plaintiffs’ counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect. (See Nilsson v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 976) (finding calendar errors by an attorney or a member of his staff are considered excusable within the meaning of the statute providing relief.)III. RULINGFor the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Dismissal is GRANTED.