  Case Number:  23PSCV02630    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Primary Partners Financial’s DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to amend
as the issue of the hacker has created contradictory allegations. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a purported fraud. Plaintiff PASADENA FEDERAL CREDIT UNION, a
federally chartered credit union (“Plaintiff” or “PFCU”), alleges the following
against PALOMARES ESCROW, INC. (“Palomares” or Palomares Escrow”) and PRIMARY
PARTNERS FINANCIAL (“PPF”): Plaintiff and PPF entered into a Residential
Mortgage Loan Agreement (“Agreement”) for PPF to originate, process, and underwrite residential mortgages for
PFCU’s members. On August 30, 2022, PPF represented to Plaintiff that Palomares
would act as the escrow holder for two of Plaintiff’s members. Ultimately,
through a series of events, false instructions were sent to PPF, leading to the
wiring of funds to a Truist Bank, not Palomares. 
 
On August 28,
2023, Plaintiff file suit for: 1.     Breach Of Contract 2.     Negligence 3.     Negligent Misrepresentation 4.     Intentional Misrepresentation 5.     Conversion 6.     Express Indemnity
 
On November
1, 2023, DEFENDANT PALOMARES ESCROW, INC filed the instant DEMURRER and MOTION
TO STRIKE TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT. 
 
On November
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). Though the caption
on the FAC indicates that there are 6 COAs, the body of the FAC provides for
the following 8 COAs: 1.     Breach of Contract (v. PPF) 2.     Negligence (v. PPF) 3.     Negligence (v. Palomares) 4.     Negligent Misrepresentation (v. PPF) 5.     Intentional Misrepresentation (v. PPF) 6.     Intentional Misrepresentation (v.
Palomares) 7.     Conversion (v. PPF) 8.     Conversion (v. Palomares)
 
On November
1, 2023, the court deemed the demurrer and MTS moot as a FAC was filed
thereafter. 
 
On January
16, 2024, PPF filed the instant demurrer. 
 
On January
22, 2024 (see also 1/23/24 NPT), the court in ruling on Palomares’s
Demurrer and MTS, struck the 6th COA for sham pleading, without leave to amend
and SUSTAINED the 8th COA for conversion without leave to amend.
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition to PPF’s
demurrer. 
 
Reply due 5 court days before hearing (Tues. 2/13)
 
Discussion[1]
 
Defendant PPF demurs to the entirety of the FAC and
specifically demurs as to the following COAs asserted against it: (1) 1st
COA for breach of contract, (2) 4th COA for negligent
misrepresentation, (3) 5th COA for intentional misrepresentation,
(4) 7th COA for conversion. PPF demurs on the grounds that each
fails to state sufficient facts and is uncertain. (Code of Civ. Proc., §§
430.10(e), (f).)[2] 
 
1.    
1st COA for Breach of Contract

 
The FAC alleges, in relevant part, that “PPF represented and
warranted that it would engage in reasonable due diligence and that there would
be no fraudulent information or misrepresentation in any loan package sent to
Plaintiff” (FAC ¶39) but
that PPF breached its agreement with Plaintiff by (1) “fail[ing] to engage in
reasonable due diligence required by the Agreement and was aware of the fraud
and misrepresentation to PFCU” and (2) “fail[ing] to repurchase the loan sold
under the Agreement or resolve the matter within 30 days after the fraud was
discovered.” (FAC ¶¶40-43.) 
 
While
Defendant’s demurrer addresses some of the aforementioned allegations, it
does not address the allegation about the terms of the agreement required
PPF to investigate, to initiate verification, to exercise reasonable due
diligence and repurchase
the loan or resolve the matter within 30 days. For the first time in Reply,
Defendant addresses the allegation, but does not analyze the
allegation. (See Reply p. 3:221-22 [“[T]he FAC does
not allege Defendant’s actions that constituted a breach and resulted in
Plaintiff’s alleged damages.”].) 
 
Therefore, the breach of contract COA has stated sufficient
facts. That said, see infra as the COA is uncertain. 
 
2.     4th COA for Negligent
Misrepresentation 
 
The 4th
COA is predicated upon the wire transfer specifically in that “PPF had
no reasonable basis for believing the wire instructions were true as they
contained a payee that was not typical to similar transactions, and they were
sent from an external email address.” (FAC ¶68.) 
 
In its demurrer, Defendant focuses on the allegation that
PPF was the first to raise the issue of suspected fraud and immediately
contacted the relevant parties regarding the hacked email address. (See FAC ¶25 [“On or about September 1,
2022, a PPF agent sent an email to Ms. Black regarding suspected wire fraud.”];
see also ¶29.) 
 
But that misses the point. It isn’t entirely about what
happened after the wire transfer but what happened leading up to
the wire transfer, and Plaintiff is alleging that PPF should have
known/knew that the external email address (homebrokerp@gmail.com) was wrong when
PPF had previously corresponded with a @PalomaresEscrow.com account. (FAC ¶29.)[3]

 
Therefore, negligent misrepresentation COA has stated
sufficient facts. That said, see infra as the COA is uncertain. 
 
3.    
5th COA for Intentional
Misrepresentation 
 
This allegation is predicated upon the allegation that “PFCU
inquired further into the validity of the wire instructions, and PPF again
intentionally represented that the wire instructions were safe and accurate
without any investigation into the truthfulness of their statement.” (FAC ¶72.) 
 
Now, Defendant’s reliance on a heightened pleading standard
is correct and the pleading falls short of that. The FAC does not describe with
the requisite particularity that Defendant knew that the representation was
false. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff relies upon the allegations that
Plaintiff’s employee sought confirmation of the wire details from PPF (FAC,
¶20-23), but that PPF represented that “everything was good to proceed.” But
there is no allegation Defendant had a basis to believe that the email address
was hacked or false notably when the email allegedly originated from a
representative of Palomeras Escrow. (¶28 [“The email signature reads Patti Black,
Escrow Officer Palomares Escrow, Inc. 1425 West Foothill Blvd. Suite #230
Upland CA, 91786 Office (909) 946-5594 Fax (909) 946-5957.”].) 
 
At most what is alleged is negligence/negligent
misrepresentation in that Plaintiff voiced concerns over the email account and
PPF did not perform due diligence to confirm that the wire instructions were
safe and accurate without any investigation into the validity of the wire
instructions. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the 5th COA for intentional misrepresentation. 
 
4.    
7th COA for Conversion
 
The basis of this COA is that PPF has wrongfully exercised
control over the funds of two of Plaintiff’s members. But, as noted in
Palomares’ demurrer, Truist purportedly has the funds. (See also Demurrer p.
16:24-25 [“However, Plaintiff alleges that the funds were transferred to Truist
Bank and Truist Bank did not return the full amount of the wire transfer.”].) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff makes an argument outside the
pleadings. As a court is bound by the four corners of the pleading on a
demurrer, the court cannot address whether the argument is sufficient for the
COA. (See Opp. p. 9:14-20 [“Although outside the allegations in the pleadings,
early discovery has revealed that after the wire transfer, the account at
Truist Bank was locked for suspected fraud on September 1, 2022. At that point,
no transactions were permitted in or out of the account. Thus, as employees of
PPF had access to the account on August 30, 2022 until the account was
subsequently locked, Plaintiff believes that PPF employees in possession of the
account information wrongfully dispossessed the member’s funds supporting the
allegations in ¶¶ 21-23, 92- 94 of the pleadings.”].) 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to
amend as to the conversion COA as the conversion COA could use clarification as
it is uncertain. 
 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the issue of who is the hacker remains an issue (as it was with
Palomares’ demurrer). The FAC not only alleges that Ms. Black (employee
of Palomares) is the supposed hacker but that Apryll Held, a senior account
executive at PPF, is also the hacker specifically in that she sent emails from
an external email address “pretending to be an employee of Palomares.” (See
generally ¶¶51-52.) This allegation alone creates uncertainty as to the entire basis
of the lawsuit against PPF as Plaintiff appears to predicate PPF’s liability
upon the actions of Ms. Held, but what Ms. Held exactly did is unclear. With that, the court sustains the
demurrer in its entirety as the complaint lacks is ambiguous. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurer is sustained with leave
to amend. 


