 Case Number:  22STCV19481    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  39 James Wahl, et al.
v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.
Case Number
22STCV19481
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Plaintiffs
James Wahl (“James”) and his son, Timothy Wahl (“Timothy”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”),
filed this action against American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (“ABC” or
“Defendant”).  Plaintiffs ran the
construction shop and special effects department for the ABC-produced soap
opera General Hospital.  After ABC
instituted a requirement that its employees become vaccinated against COVID-19,
Plaintiffs requested religious exemptions, which were denied.  Plaintiffs filed this action for violations
of the California Constitution and the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”)
asserting the following causes of action:
 
1. 
Violation of Article 1, section 1 of the California Constitution 
2. 
Religious discrimination/failure to accommodate under FEHA 
3. 
Disability discrimination under FEHA 

4. 
Retaliation under FEHA 
5. 
Wrongful termination in violation of public policy
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication based upon seven issues. 
The Court grants summary adjudication of the first cause of action and
denies summary adjudication with respect to the remaining causes of
action.  
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this action on June 15, 2022, and the Court accepted this case as related
to Ingo Rademacher v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc., Case Number
21STCV45383.  In that case, the Court
granted summary judgment and incorporates its order of June 5, 2023, by
reference.  Now, Defendant moves for
summary adjudication of seven issues: (1) The invasion of privacy claim fails
because Plaintiffs’ union agreed to the vaccination policy; (2) The invasion of
privacy claim fails because Plaintiffs had no legally protected privacy
interest in continued employment at ABC; (3) The invasion of privacy claim
fails because Plaintiffs did not act consistently with an expectation of
privacy; (4) The invasion of privacy claim fails because Defendant had a
compelling interest; (5) The religious discrimination claim fails because Plaintiffs’
objections were not sufficiently religious in nature; and (6) The religious
discrimination claim fails because Defendant could not have accommodated
Plaintiffs.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law[.]  There is a triable
issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable
trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the
motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.) 
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Article 1, section 1 of the California
Constitution
 
            The Court grants
summary adjudication of the first cause of action for the same reasons it
granted summary adjudication of this claim in Ingo Rademacher v. American
Broadcasting Companies, Inc., Case Number 21STCV45383.  
 
            B.        Whether Plaintiffs had genuine religious
beliefs 
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of Issue #6: Whether Plaintiffs’ objections to
the vaccine policy are sufficiently religious in nature to warrant protection
under FEHA.  The Court granted summary
adjudication of this issue in Ingo Rademacher v. American Broadcasting
Companies, Inc., Case Number 21STCV45383 because the plaintiff refused to
cooperate with the interactive process. 
By contrast, Plaintiffs cooperated sufficiently with the interactive
process, so the Court must reach the merits of the issue.  While Defendant’s counsel identifies seeming
inconsistencies, Plaintiffs raise sufficient facts to give rise to a triable
issue.  Therefore, Defendant’s motion is
denied.
 
            C.        Whether Plaintiffs could be accommodated
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of Issue #7: Whether Defendant could have
reasonably accommodated Plaintiffs.  The
Court granted summary adjudication of this issue in  Ingo Rademacher v. American Broadcasting
Companies, Inc., Case Number 21STCV45383 because the plaintiff was an actor and
he conceded the following facts: (1) Plaintiff interacts with other
actors on stage when performing the story line; (2) Acting requires Plaintiff
to “get very close to other actors;” (3) ABC did not write masking into the
storyline of General Hospital; (4) Plaintiff could not have acted on General
Hospital while wearing a mask; and (5) Plaintiff would be in close proximity to
others between the ages of 12 and 65 while acting on General Hospital.  By contrast, Plaintiffs performed different
roles than Ingo Rademacher.  Plaintiff
James Wahl “used to work behind the scenes” and “ran the construction/special
effects shop for the show.”  (Declaration
of James Wahl, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff Timothy
James Wahl “worked in the construction/special effects shop for the show.”  (Declaration of Timothy James Wahl, ¶
2.)  Both spent “most of [their] time” in
the special effects shop and went to the set only “periodically.”  (Declaration of James Wahl, ¶ 4; Declaration
of Timothy James Wahl, ¶ 4.)  Both could
perform their job duties while wearing masks, social distancing, and testing
regularly.  (Declaration of James Wahl, ¶¶
3-5; Declaration of Timothy James Wahl, ¶¶ 3-5.)  Whether Defendant could reasonable
accommodate Plaintiffs is a triable issue for the jury.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
                Based
upon the foregoing, the Court grants summary adjudication of the first cause of
action.  The Court denies summary
adjudication of the remaining causes of action. 
Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.
 
Order
#2 of 3
Motion
for Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs move
for issue and evidentiary sanctions, arguing that Defendant’s counsel
improperly coached a witness at the deposition. 
Defendant’s counsel opposes the motion, arguing that he spoke to the
witness for approximately one minute while no question was pending in order to
understand a potential inconsistency between the witness’s testimony and his
understanding of the facts, as reflected by the testimony of two prior
witnesses.  
 
            The motion
is denied.  The conversation occurred
while no question was pending; the conversation was brief in nature; the record
supports the view that the witness or Defendant’s counsel was confused about
the question or facts; the record does not support the argument that the
witness committed perjury based upon the advice of his attorney; and
Defendant’s counsel did not prevent Plaintiff’s counsel from inquiring about
the inconsistencies or any other subject area. 
Regardless, sanctions are not necessary. 
The testimony “is what it is,” as they say.  The Court acknowledges that the witness testified
inconsistently, but that is a benefit to Plaintiffs.  This testimony may very well have prevented
the Court from granting summary judgment had the Court not denied the motion on
other grounds.  Plaintiffs’ counsel is
free to impeach the witness at trial, which is an appropriate remedy.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.620.)  
 
            The Court
finds no basis to re-take these depositions, because Defendant’s counsel did
not prevent them from making any inquiries into the relevant issues.  Nor does the Court find good cause to appoint
a discovery referee at this stage.  Plaintiffs’
counsel does not identify any future depositions of Defendant’s employees.  However, out of an abundance of caution, the
Court orders that all future depositions shall be taken in-person unless the
parties stipulate to conduct the depositions remotely.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is denied.  Defendant’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court. 
 
Order #3 of 3
Case Management
Order
 
            The
Court sets the following dates:
 
            Final
Status Conference:
 
            Trial:
 
The discovery and motions deadlines shall be based on the
new trial date.  The parties shall
prepare and file joint trial documents on or before ______.  The parties shall identify all witnesses they
intend to call in their respective cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all
exhibits they intend to introduce in their respective cases-in-chief, on or
before ________.
 
            Defendant’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 