 Case Number:  21STCV46583    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  39 Mandana
Nazar v. Shawn Yadidi, et al.
Case
No. 21STCV46583
MOTION TO QUASH
 
            Plaintiffs
Mandana Nazar and Fole, Inc. dba as “Suncare Medical Supplies” (“Suncare”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Shawn Yadidi,
Promed Medical Supplies (“Promed”), and Navid Zad (collectively, “Defendants”)
asserting 22 causes of action for employment-based claims, discrimination and
sexual harassment, defamation and trade libel, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, interference with existing and prospective contractual
relationships, and unfair competition.  Shawn
Yadidi and Promed filed a first amended cross-complaint against Plaintiffs
asserting causes of action for civil conspiracy for fraud, misappropriation of
trade secrets, and unfair business practices. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to quash subpoenas issued to her treating physicians seeking
medical records from January 1, 2020, to the present.  If a
subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court may quash the subpoena
entirely or modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a
motion to quash, “the Court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) Plaintiff has a right of privacy
in her medical records.  For this reason,
the Court cannot order disclosure of the records of that activity, unless it
determines that disclosure serves a compelling interest.  (See Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 855-856.) 
 
            In this case, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants undermined her business, which caused or exacerbated her medical
conditions.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has
put her medical condition at issue.  A
plaintiff who seeks to recover for personal injuries waives the
physician-patient privilege to some extent, but does not waive the privilege
with respect to the plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 863-864.)  However, Plaintiff
fails to suggest any appropriate limitations on the subpoenas.  Nor can the Court envision any limitation,
because Defendants are entitled to understand Plaintiff’s medical conditions at
issue and explore alternative causes.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to quash is denied.      
 
            2.         Plaintiff may file an ex parte
application for reconsideration if she withdraws all claims for damages
relating to her physical health.    
 
            3.          Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
