  Case Number:  23TRCV01689    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
FADRIKO
  DILLON,
 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01689




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CENTINELA
  HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER, A BUSINESS ORGANIZATION, FORM UNKNOWN, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              August
13, 2024         
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants, Prime Healthcare
Centinela, LLC., dba Centinela Hospital Medical Center; Prime Healthcare
Services, LLC; and Veritas Health Services, Inc. (“Prime Defendants”)
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff, Fadriko Dillon
HEARING: DEMURRER TO
THE FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.  
 
RULING
Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Fourth Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the premises liability and general
liability claims and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the landlord
liability claim. The demurrer is OVERRULED as MOOT as to the gross negligence
and dereliction of duty claims.
 
BACKGROUND
On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff, Fadriko Dillon
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Centinela Hospital Medical
Center, Prime Healthcare Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On June 23,
2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On December 21, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) against Defendants, Prime Healthcare
Centinela, LLC dba, Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Veritas Health Services,
Inc., Prime Healthcare Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. The 4AC alleges
causes of action for: (1) Premises Liability; (2) General Negligence; (3) Gross
Negligence; (4) Landlord Liability; and (5) Dereliction of Duty/Negligent
Undertaking.
 
This case involves
an incident outside Centinela Hospital Medical Center on May 27, 2021, where
Plaintiff Fadriko Dillon was shot and injured by an unidentified third party.
Plaintiff claims that the security guards at the hospital should have either
thoroughly checked all entrants into the emergency department or taken
unspecified steps to prevent the attack. 
 
Now, Defendants, Prime Healthcare Centinela,
LLC dba, Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Veritas Health Services, Inc.,
Prime Healthcare Services, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) file a Demurrer to
the 4AC.
 
On July 9, 2024, Defendants filed this
demurrer to the 4AC. On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On August
6, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants demur to
the 4AC on the grounds that Defendants argue the first, second, third, fourth,
and fifth causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes
of action against the Defendants.
 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (emphasis added, CCP § 430.41(a).)
 
Defendant’s counsel’ Cameron D. Aronson declares that on June
10, 2024, counsel sent a written meet and confer letter to Plainitff’s counsel
regarding the 4AC. (Aronson Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) The Court finds this sufficient to
satisfy the meet and confer requirement. 
 
B.    Gross Negligence and Dereliction of Duty
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff'’ inclusion of the gross negligence and dereliction of duty
causes of action in the 4AC is improper because Plaintiff had previously agreed
to strike these claims in response to the Defendants’ demurrers to the TAC. In
Plaintiff’s opposition brief, Plaintiff stipulates to strike his third cause of
action for Gross Negligence and fifth cause of action for Dereliction of Duty.
 
            Thus, the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer as to the
gross negligence and dereliction of duty claims as MOOT.
 
C.    Premises Liability
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for premises liability remains
deficiently pleaded. The Court previously sustained Defendants’ demurrers to
this claim in the TAC, finding that the allegations were insufficient to impose
the alleged duty on Defendants to check every entrant into the emergency
department for weapons. Defendant states that the 4AC fails to address this
defect. Defendants emphasize that the existence of a duty is a legal question
for the Court. California case law generally considers factors such as the
foreseeability of danger on the premises and the burden of implementing
precautionary measures when determining whether a business has a duty to
protect patrons from third-party criminal conduct. (Sharon P. v. Arman, Ltd.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 1181, 1188.) In cases where the burden of providing a
precautionary measure is significant, courts have required a “heightened” or “high
degree” of foreseeability to impose such a duty. (See Ann M. v. Pacific
Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 678, 679.) In the TAC, Plaintiff
attempted to satisfy the foreseeability requirement by citing two prior
incidents of gun violence at the hospital, but these incidents were found
insufficient as they were not similar to the current case and were temporally
remote. The 4AC did not add any new allegations about these incidents or any
other similar incidents at the hospital. Instead, Plaintiff included generic
allegations about workplace violence in hospitals, statistics from the U.S.
Department of Labor and the World Health Organization, and the presence of a
mental health facility nearby. Defendants argue that these new allegations do
not relate to criminal acts by third parties at the hospital and thus do not
satisfy the foreseeability requirement needed to establish a duty. Defendants
also highlight that imposing a duty to check every entrant into an emergency
department, as suggested by Plaintiff, would be overly burdensome and is not
recognized by any court in California or federal authority. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that premises liability claim is valid because it is grounded
in Defendants’ possession and control of the premises, which imposes an
affirmative duty to act. Citing Ortega v. Kmart (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200,
Plaintiff contends that a property owner, including a hospital, has a duty to
exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises safe. Under Ortega, if
a property owner fails to inspect the premises within a reasonable time, it can
be inferred that a dangerous condition existed long enough to have been
discovered by someone exercising reasonable care. Plaintiff states he plans to
argue at trial that Defendants failed to adequately inspect the premises and
that this failure contributed to the dangerous condition that led to the
shooting incident. Although the specific details of the shooter’s presence on
the premises are not yet known, Plaintiff has taken steps to investigate,
including serving a preservation of evidence letter on Defendant. Plaintiff states
he also intends to introduce evidence of other violent crimes reported on
Defendant’s premises in recent years to establish a heightened foreseeability
of crime. Plaintiff argues that while Defendant downplays the significance of
prior shootings in 2012 and 2015, these incidents, combined with broader trends
in increasing violence in the healthcare sector, demonstrate a need for heightened
security measures. Plaintiff notes that California’s recent Senate Bill (SB)
553 mandates that all employers, particularly hospitals, implement workplace
violence prevention plans by July 1, 2024. Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
provision of security personnel at the time of the incident indicates an
acknowledgment of the need for increased security. Plaintiff contends that
Defendant’s argument that additional safety measures would be costly or
burdensome is premature, as the FAC does not specify particular safety measures
that should have been adopted. Plaintiff believes these details will be
clarified through discovery, expert opinions, and witness testimony. 
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that the 4AC fails to address the key issue in the premises liability
cause of action: the unrecognized duty to check all entrants into the premises.
Plaintiff’s opposition relies heavily on Ortega, which Defendants state is
not applicable to this case as it deals with physical inspections of premises
for dangerous conditions, not the inspection of third parties for weapons.
Defendants assert that Ortega does not support the idea that business
owners, such as the Prime Defendants, have a duty to inspect people entering
the premises for potential criminal behavior. Defendants further contend that
Plaintiff’s argument, which references two prior shootings and general calls
for increased reporting of violent incidents in the healthcare sector, does not
establish the foreseeability required to impose such a duty. Defendants assert
that the prior incidents cited are dissimilar to the current case and do not
demonstrate a “heightened” or “high degree” of foreseeability of the danger
that would justify imposing a new duty on Defendants. Additionally, Defendants
refute Plaintiff’s claim that the mere presence of security personnel on the
premises indicates an acknowledgment of the need for increased security
measures. Citing Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224,
249, Defendants argue that the presence of security does not automatically
imply a duty to protect patrons from third-party criminal acts.
 
While those who
own, possess, or control property are not insurers of the safety of their
patrons, they generally have a duty to exercise reasonable and ordinary care in
keeping the premises reasonably safe and in managing the property to avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.(2001)
26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014)
232¿Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions
for the court. (Annocki, 232 Cal.App.4th. at 36.) “A store owner
exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions of the
premises open to customers, and the care required is commensurate with the
risks involved.” (Ibid.) If a dangerous condition exists, the property
owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition
reasonably safe for their [customers’] use or to give a warning adequate to
enable them to avoid the harm.” (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960)
53 Cal.2d 443, 446.) The party asserting the cause of action has the burden to
prove that the owner had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition in sufficient time to correct it. (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1203,
1206.)
 
The liability of
landowners for injuries to people on their property is governed by general
negligence principles. (Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1407 (Pineda).) A cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal
duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3)
causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) The existence of a
legal duty is a question for the court to determine, and “foreseeability is a
‘crucial factor’ in determining the existence and scope of a legal duty.” (Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann M.,
supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 674, 676 (Delgado).) However, a high degree of
foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty
of care includes the hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of
foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar
incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises. To hold otherwise would
be to impose an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force
landlords to become the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established
policy in this state.” (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679,
footnote omitted.) “Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of
prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably
foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and does not
require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal incidents. (Delgado,
supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 245.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s 4AC
contends that while he was at the premises, a patron, employee, agent,
customer, or person otherwise present with permission of the owner of the
premises, exited the ER and assaulted Plaintiff by grabbing him and inflicting
a gunshot wound to Plaintiff’s leg. (4AC, p. 4.) Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendants who owned the premises had security, but failed to either check the
individual who committed the assault for a weapon or prevent the crime upon
their premises. (4AC, p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew or should
have known of this dangerous condition and that this type of assault was
reasonably foreseeable based on crime in the area and prior similar incidents.
(4AC, ¶ 4.) The 4AC also alleges that Defendants had a duty to protect
invitees, including Plaintiff, from a reasonably foreseeable incident based on
crime in the area and prior similar incidents. (4AC, p. 4.) Moreover, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
Pursuant to CCP §
1714(a) Defendant’s want of ordinary care in management of their property
resulted in injury to Plaintiff. Under CCP §1714, hospitals owe a minimum, a
duty of care to provide a safe environment to invitees, patients and employees.
Defendants had a duty to protect invitees including Plaintiff from this
reasonably foreseeable type of harm and failed to do so, resulting in injury to
Plaintiff. Defendants knew or should have known of the risk of violence on the
Premises because such violence was reasonably foreseeable. Hospitals are places
where emotions run high. There was prior gun violence at the Premises at least
twice, on or about July 25, 2015 and October 12, 2012. Further the Premises is
across the street from Didi Hirsch, a mental health facility and in a high
crime area. In addition, 73% of all non-fatal workplace violent injuries
occurred in hospitals in 2018 according to the US Bureau of Labor statistics. 
 
(4AC p. 5.) 
 
As noted above, a party alleging the need for
security, or failure to provide ample security, needs to show prior similar
criminal incidents that would lead to this heightened foreseeability. It is not
enough for Plaintiff to merely allege, in a conclusory manner, that prior
criminal incidents took place in the area and on Defendants’ premises.
Plaintiff argues, as he did previously, in his opposition, that this case is to
be instructed by Ortega v. Kmart (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200. In Ortega,
the California Supreme Court stressed the requirement that an “owner’s actual
or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is a key to establishing
its liability.” (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th 1200.) It appears that Plaintiff
attempts to argue that Defendants’ precautionary safety measure of providing
security already should create an inference that Defendants had actual or
constructive knowledge that the dangerous condition on their property existed
prior to Plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff also adds a statistic that “73% of all
non-fatal workplace violent injuries occurred in hospitals in 2018 according to
the US Bureau of Labor statistics. “ However, the Court is not persuaded by these
arguments. Hospitals often have security guards present for a number of
reasons, but the scope of the claimed duty is not outlined for the Court here.
Plaintiff also fails to provide more detail in the 4AC as to the prior
incidents however, such that the Court cannot determine whether they are both
“similar” to the subject incident. 
 
Thus, this Court
SUSTAINS demurrer as to the premise liability cause of action, with twenty (20)
days leave to amend.
 
D.    General Negligence
 
Next, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for general negligence
as it fails to allege a cognizable duty. In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664,
671.) 
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s general negligence cause of action fails to state a claim
because it is based on the same alleged conduct as the premises liability cause
of action and suffers from similar deficiencies. Specifically, Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff has not established the existence of a cognizable duty
that the Prime Defendants allegedly breached. The $AC remains vague and
uncertain regarding what the actual breach of duty is. In the premises
liability cause of action, Plaintiff claims the breach occurred when security failed
to check the shooter or prevent the crime. (4AC p. 5.) However, in the general
negligence cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that the breach occurred due to
inadequate training and staffing of security personnel, failure to screen
invitees for weapons, and failure to adequately surveil the premises using CCTV.
Defendants argue that these allegations are vague and uncertain, particularly
regarding whether the issue is with security training, staffing, or
surveillance. Moreover, the AC admits that CCTV was operational during the
incident, undermining the claim that surveillance was inadequate. Defendants
also contend that the alleged duty to screen invitees for weapons is not
recognized by California courts, and the addition of language about inadequate
security training does not establish a new, cognizable duty. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant owed a duty of ordinary and reasonable care to
Plaintiff as a licensee on the premises, as established by California Civil
Code § 1714. Plaintiff claims to have established a prima facie case for
general negligence by alleging that he encountered a hazardous condition on
Defendant’s premises and was injured as a result. Plaintiff asserts that
hospitals, including Defendant’s facility, have a duty to provide a reasonably
safe environment for invitees, visitors, patients, and employees, grounded in
CCP § 1714, contrary to Defendant’s assertion that this statute is irrelevant. Plaintiff
clarifies that the argument is not about whether Defendant was required to
provide security guards, as in the Ann M., but rather about whether
Defendant exercised reasonable care in the security measures it did provide.
Plaintiff points out that Defendant had already determined the need for some
security personnel on the premises at the time of the incident, indicating an
acknowledgment of the need for security. Plaintiff seeks to explore through
discovery how Defendant made decisions about the number of security personnel,
their training, and their response to violence. Additionally, Plaintiff
suggests that the relationship between the shooter and Defendant could provide
further theories of liability, which may be uncovered through ongoing
discovery. Plaintiff also contends that the existence of duplicative causes of
action is not grounds for striking them, as Defendant’s demurrer suggests. 
 
In reply,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Opposition relies on the incorrect citation
of CCP § 1714, which concerns foreign-country money judgments and is irrelevant
to the premises liability and negligence claims based on the criminal acts of
third parties. Even if Plaintiff intended to cite California Civil Code § 1714,
it would not cure the deficiencies in the general negligence cause of action. Defendants
assert that Plaintiff has failed to allege a breach of duty by the Defendants,
specifically arguing that the proposed duties—such as screening invitees for
weapons or actively surveilling CCTV monitors—are not recognized by law.
Plaintiff also does not provide any legal authority to support these proposed
duties, which are central to the negligence claim. The existence of a duty is a
question of law for the Court, and without a recognized duty, the claim cannot
stand. Additionally, Defendants assert that Plaintiff references an unspecified
public record that allegedly shows Defendant’s security personnel lacked
sufficient training, but this reference is not included in the operative
complaint and cannot be considered. Defendants also refute Plaintiff’s argument
that the presence of security personnel implies foreseeability of criminal
activity, noting that this does not establish any admission of duty or
liability. Defendants emphasize that Plaintiff has failed to provide any legal
authority to support the alleged duties, and that the causes of action in the
complaint are duplicative, all based on the same facts and unrecognized duties.

 
In the 4AC,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, who own and operate Centinela Hospital
Medical Center, negligently managed the premises, leading to his injuries when
he was shot by an individual who exited the hospital’s emergency room. (4AC, p.
6.) Plaintiff contends that Defendants failed to implement adequate security
measures, such as screening for weapons or providing sufficient surveillance,
despite knowing or should have known about the heightened risk of violence on
the premises due to prior incidents and the general environment of
hospitals.  (Id.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants owed him a duty of care as an invitee, which they
breached by not preventing the foreseeable harm. (Id.) Plaintiff
references studies and statistics on workplace violence in healthcare settings,
highlighting the known risks and the need for proper security measures. (Id.)
 
As with the
premises liability, Plaintiff fails to sufficiently allege that Defendants had
a heightened duty to protect Plaintiff from the incident that took place. The
Court finds that while Plaintiff has articulated a general duty of care owed by
Defendants as owners and operators of the hospital, the 4AC does not
demonstrate that this duty extended to a specific obligation to prevent the
criminal actions of a third party, such as the shooter in this case. The
allegations rely heavily on the notion that hospitals, given their nature as
high-risk environments, should anticipate and guard against all forms of
violence. However, Plaintiff has not provided adequate factual support to
establish that Defendants were or should have been aware of an imminent threat
specific to Plaintiff’s situation that would trigger a heightened duty of care.
The mere existence of past incidents or general risks associated with hospitals
does not automatically impose an extraordinary duty on the Defendants without
clear evidence of foreseeability related to the specific harm that occurred. Furthermore,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s reliance on prior violent incidents and
general statistics about workplace violence in healthcare settings is
insufficient to elevate the standard duty of care to one that includes
proactive screening of all individuals entering the hospital or other extensive
security measures. To impose such a heightened duty, the Plaintiff would need
to allege more concrete connections between the specific incident and the
Defendants’ knowledge or notice of similar, specific risks that would
necessitate such extraordinary precautions.
 
Thus, the Court
SUSTAINS demurrer as to the general negligence cause of action, with twenty
(20) days leave to amend.
 
E.    Landlord Liability
 
Defendants argue
that the 4AC pleading for this cause of action is identical to the TAC and has
not been amended. Defendants contend that the claim fails as a threshold issue
because Plaintiff was not a tenant, which is essential for a landlord liability
claim. Moreover, Plaintiff has not established a breach of duty. The 4AC admits
that security was present at the hospital during the incident, indicating that
Defendants took reasonable precautions to prevent injuries. Additionally,
Plaintiff has not provided sufficient facts to support the allegation that
Defendants knew or should have known about the risk of gun violence against
invitees. The two prior incidents cited by Plaintiff were temporally remote and
unrelated to the current case. Defendants further argue that given the lack of
prior similar incidents, the likelihood of injury to Plaintiff was low, and the
burden proposed in the 4AC is high. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that a landlord has a
duty to take reasonable measures to secure areas under their control against
foreseeable criminal acts of third parties, as established in Castaneda v.
Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213. Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
argument, claiming that the proposed duty to enhance security is too
burdensome, is premature and conclusory. Plaintiff alleges that the premises
were unsafe and that additional security measures should have been implemented,
but determining the extent of these measures requires expert analysis and
further discovery. Plaintiff suggests that various security enhancements could
have been employed, such as improved surveillance systems, better lighting,
effective locks, and properly trained security personnel. The key question for
the jury will be what security measures were reasonably available to Defendant
at the time of the incident and the “burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy”
of those proposed measures, as discussed in Wiener v. Southcoast Childcare
Centers, Inc. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1138, 1146-1147.
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that the Landlord Liability claim
is fundamentally flawed because it does not establish the necessary
landlord-tenant relationship between the parties. Both the 4AC and Plaintiff’s
Opposition fail to justify how the Defendants could be liable under a landlord
liability theory when Plaintiff is not a tenant. Plaintiff’s own Opposition
acknowledges that a landlord-tenant relationship is required for such a claim
but does not address how this requirement is met. Defendants also point out
that Plaintiff’s Opposition does not address the arguments made in the
demurrers, particularly the lack of a cognizable duty owed by the Prime
Defendants to the Plaintiff. Instead, Plaintiff repeats the same arguments made
in opposition to the TAC without any attempt to amend or substantiate the
claims. Furthermore, the Opposition does not address the issue of
foreseeability, which is critical in a landlord liability claim. Plaintiff
fails to connect the prior instances of gun violence with the incident in
question, despite relying on the Castaneda case. 
 
The California
Supreme Court has unequivocally stated that a duty is owed by the landlord to
its tenant, arising out of their special relationship. (Castaneda v. Olsher
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) This case is relied upon by Plaintiff in his
opposition brief, however, the clear issue with this reliance is that Castaneda
speaks to a landlord-tenant relationship. Here, Plaintiff was not a tenant of
Defendants’ premises. Further, as relied upon by Defendants in their moving
papers, “[t]he existence of the landlord’s duty to others to maintain the
property in a reasonably safe condition is a question of law for the court.” (Johnson
v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 79.) “The question is whether in the
management of his property, the possessor of land has acted as a reasonable
person under all the circumstances. The likelihood of injury to plaintiff, the
probable seriousness of such injury, the burden of reducing or avoiding the
risk, the location of the land, and the possessor’s degree of control over the
risk-creating condition are among the factors to be considered by the trier of
fact in evaluating the reasonableness of a defendant’s conduct.” (Sprecher
v. Adamson Companies (1981) 30 Cal.3d 358, 371.)
 
Thus, the Court
SUSTAINS demurrer as to the landlord liability cause of action, without leave
to amend.