  Case Number:  23TRCP00328    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ENJOYOR
  TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00328




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
XIN
  LI, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Xin Li and Wei Lai Development LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd.
(1)  
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of First
Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action in the FAC. 

The motion to strike is DENIED as
to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action and plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees under those causes of action. 
The motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Exhibit A.
Plaintiff is ordered to file and
serve an amended complaint that includes Exhibit A accompanied by an English
translation, certified under oath by a qualified interpreter, within twenty
days.  Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within twenty days after service of the amended complaint.
            
BACKGROUND
On August 11, 2023, plaintiff
Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. filed a petition against Xin Li and Wei Lai
Development LLC for recognition of foreign money judgment and complaint for
fraudulent transfer.
            The proofs of service filed August
18, 2023 indicate that defendants were personally served on August 18.
            On August 18, 2023, plaintiff filed
a notice of lis pendens.
            On September 18, 2023, defendant Xin
Lu filed a declaration of demurring of moving party in support of automatic
extension.
On September 18, 2023, defaults
were entered against defendants.
            On October 18, 2023, defendants
filed a motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On October 19, 2023, defendants Xin
Li and Wei Lai Development LLC filed a demurrer.
            On November 6 and 15, 2023,
defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of the motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On December 22, 2023, the court took
judicial notice of defense counsel’s declaration of in support of automatic
extension and plaintiff’s request for entry of default filed after and found
that plaintiff’s request should have been rejected.  On its own motion, the court set aside the
defaults against defendants.           
            On March 28, 2024, the court
sustained defendants’ demurrer as to the third through fifth causes of action
in the complaint and granted the motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On April 4, 2024, the court granted
defendants’ motion for attorney’s fees in the amount of $3678.65.  The court also granted defendants’ motion to
quash subpoenas.
            On May 3, 2024, plaintiff filed a
first amended petition for recognition of foreign money judgment and complaint
for fraudulent transfer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Defendants demur to the third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that they fail to
state sufficient allegations to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
On March 28, 2024, the Court had
sustained defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend as to the third through
fifth causes of action in the complaint.
The verified first amended petition
and complaint alleges that this is an action for recognition of a final foreign
money judgment under the Uniform Foreign Country Money Judgments Recognition
Act, Civil Code §1713, et seq.  FAC, ¶1.  The judgment arose out of defendant Li’s
breach of two written contracts with plaintiff. 
By way of a public trial with the highest provincial court of Zhejiang
Province in China and an appeal to the highest court in the People’s Republic
of China (the Supreme Court of the People’s Republic of China), defendant Li
litigated the two written contracts on their merits and lost.  Id., ¶2. 
Defendant Li having exhausted all direct appeals and collateral avenues
for relief, the money judgement is enforceable against defendant Li in this
Court.  Evading the money judgement, all defendants
conspired to fraudulently transfer Li’s assets to avoid plaintiff’s collection
efforts.  Id., ¶3.
The FAC further alleges that plaintiff
is a publicly traded company and specializes in integrated smart city solutions
and data analysis.  Id., ¶4.  Before October 2021, Enjoyor Technology Co.,
Ltd. was known as Enjoyor Technology Joint Stock Co., Ltd.  Id., ¶4 n.1. 
Defendant Li was the 75.03% shareholder of Beijing Asia Pacific Anxun
Technology Co. Ltd., which was bought by plaintiff in September 2013 under
various written contracts.  Id., ¶5.  Defendant Wei Lai Development LLC is solely
owned and operated by Li.  Id., ¶6.
The FAC further alleges that in
August 2013, plaintiff and one of its subsidiaries and all shareholders of
Beijing Asia Pacific Anzun Technology Co. (including defendant Li) were
discussing a buyout of Beijing Anxun by plaintiff.  Id., 18. 
On September 5, 2013, the buyout was finalized in two written
contracts:  (1) the Purchase Agreement
and (2) the Valuation Adjustment Agreement. 
Id., 19.  Under the Purchase
Agreement, Beijing Anxun was conditionally valued at 600,000,000 Chinese Yuan;
but, if Beijing Anxun failed to meet certain profit goals between 2013 and
2015, it would be re-valued as defined in the Valuation Adjustment
Agreement.  Under the conditional
valuation, defendant Li would, at the time of closing, receive 17,587,245
shares of plaintiff and 75,027,200 Chinese Yuan for selling all her shares in
Beijing Anxun.  She would continue
managing Beijing Anxun.  Id., ¶21.  Under the Valuation Adjustment Agreement,
defendant Li promised that under her management Beijing Anxun would make at
least certain net profits during the respective years.  Beijing Anxun would be re-evaluated after
each end of the fiscal years.  After the
reevaluation of the 2015 fiscal year, Li would receive additional cash
compensation.  Id., 24.
The FAC further alleges that in
fiscal year 2014, Beijing Anxun failed to meet the net profit goals.  Li was required to return 5,074,307 shares of
Enjoyer and she complied.  Id., ¶27.  In 2015, Beijing Anxun suffered a gigantic
financial loss.  Li was required to
return 25,240,153 shares of Enjoyer. 
Id., ¶28.  On April 22, 2016,
plaintiff made a formal demand to Li that she return the shares.  Id., ¶29. 
By this time, however, Li had mortgaged all her shares of Enjoyer to a
third party for cash payment to herself. 
Li did not return any shares to plaintiff.  Id., ¶30. 

The FAC further alleges that on January
15, 2015, Li put up $4.3 million to purchase the luxury property located at
2463 Ridgeway, San Marino.  Id., 31.  On January 25, 2015, Li formed Wei Lai
Development LLC.  Id., ¶32.  On January 29, 2015, Li closed her purchase
of the San Marino property.  Id., ¶33.  On February 14, 2015, Li left China and
settled in at the San Marino property. 
Id., ¶34.  On November 29, 2015,
Li put up $8.3 million to purchase a property located in Rancho Palos Verdes,
where she resides.  Id., ¶¶37-38.
The FAC also alleges that on May
23, 2016, plaintiff sued Li for Li’s refusal to return the shares of
plaintiff.  Id., ¶39.  On October 20, 2016, the Zhejiang Supreme
Provincial Court conducted a trial.  On
October 22, 2016, the case was stayed to March 2017 to allow the parties to
mediate.  Id., ¶¶47-49.  Because no settlement was reached, the stay
was lifted, and on August 3, 2017, the Zhejiang Supreme Provincial Court issued
a money judgment in favor of plaintiff. 
Id., ¶¶50-51.  The August 3, 2017
money judgment ordered:  a. within 10
days after the money judgment issued, defendant Li was to return 25,240,153
shares of plaintiff for 1 Chinese Yuan; and b. for each share that Li fails to
return under (a), Li was to pay the corresponding cash compensation (21.22
Chinese Yuan multiplied by both the number of shares not returned and the
multiplier 2.24) to plaintiff; Li pays the court cost of 1,843,947 Chinese Yuan
and cost of the writ of attachment 5,000 Chinee Yuan.  Id., ¶52. 
On December 12, 2017, the Supreme Court of China dismissed Li’s appeal for
not having paid her appeal fee and the money judgment became final and
immediately enforceable.  Id., ¶57.
The FAC also alleges that on April
22, 2018, the Zhejiang Supreme Provincial Court issued a writ of
execution.  Id., ¶67.  Under this writ of execution, one of Li’s
real properties in China was publicly auctioned.  Id., ¶68. 
To date, Li has not paid any of the remaining Chinese Yuan to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶69.
In its ruling on the demurrer to
the complaint, the Court had determined that the third through fifth causes of
action appeared to be barred by the statute of limitations as the complaint was
filed more than four years after the judgment became final and the properties
were transferred to defendant Wei Lai Development and that plaintiff had not
sufficiently alleged delayed discovery.
The FAC added the following
allegations as to delayed discovery:
            In the FAC, plaintiff alleges that
in April 2018, it tried to but could not locate Li and her assets in
China.  It then applied for and the
provincial court issued a civil bench warrant for Li’s arrest.  FAC, ¶70. 
As part of the civil bench warrant, the provincial court revoked Li’s
China passport and restricted Li from leaving China.  Because Li’s passport was revoked, plaintiff
had always believed that Li did not leave China.  Id., ¶71. 
Plaintiff further applied for and the provincial court imposed sanctions
against Li, including that her personal information was entered into China’s
national fugitive database; her travel was limited; she was identified in a
nationwide corporate database as a corporate officer who has evaded judgment.  Id., ¶72. 
Between 2018 and 2020, plaintiff conducted routine searches against a
nation-wide banking registration system and a nation-wide public safety
registration system to locate Li.  Id.,
¶73.  Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff
applied to have Li’s China passport revoked. 
Id., ¶74.  Between 2019 and 2022,
plaintiff asked Shenzhen Stock Exchange where its shares were publicly traded
to make various public service announcements asking for its shareholders’
assistance to locate Li.  Id., ¶75.  Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff made
numerous follow up requests with the provincial court asking for the court’s
assistance to locate Li.  The provincial
court conducted numerous searches but was unable to locate her.  Id., ¶76. 
Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff made various police reports with the
Sheriff’s Office in Beijing City where Li’s Beijing Anxun operated
business.  Id., ¶77.  Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff hired
licensed private investigators, conducted surveillance on various residential
locations in Beijing and Liangfang City (where she was born).  Id., ¶78. 
Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff attempted to contact Li and her then
husband through posting at Li’s residence, newspaper publication, and phone
calls, and interviewed Li’s relatives. 
Id., ¶79.  Between 2019 and 2022,
plaintiff engaged a law firm in China, which conducted various
investigations.  Id., ¶80.  Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff requested
defendant’s law firm at trial and on appeal to produce Li for a debtor’s
examination. They stated that she was in China but refused to appear.  Id., ¶81. 
Between 2019 and 2022, plaintiff interviewed various personal friends
and business partners of Li about her whereabouts; plaintiff was told that Li
was residing in Beijing.  Id., ¶83.  Further, between November 2019 and 2022,
China was under one of the most restrictive shelter in place order and
plaintiff was prevented from making additional efforts to locate Li.  Id., ¶84. 
None of the efforts above yielded any information as to Li’s
whereabouts.
            Plaintiff further alleges that in
February 2022, plaintiff learned from Li’s former spouse that Li fled China to
the United States, but that Li’s former spouse refused to disclose Li’s
whereabouts.  Id., ¶85.  In March 2022, plaintiff hired a legal
professional residing in San Francisco area to locate Li in the United
States.  Id., ¶86.  In March 2022, plaintiff searched for Li
against the databases maintained by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and
learned that Li fled Chian in February 2015 and appeared to have obtained a new
Chinese passport with a different number in 2020.  Id., ¶87. 
After March 2022, plaintiff conducted various internet searches but the
searches did not yield much useful information because Li’s name is common
among Chinese nationals.  Id., ¶88.  In July 2023, Li’s former spouse provided
plaintiff a photo of Li’s residence. 
Based on this photo, plaintiff conducted various searches against real
estate properties in California and was able to locate a similar real property
and was able to ascertain that Li was residing at 3300 Palos Verdes Dr. W.  Id., ¶89. 
The complaint was filed a month later. 
Id., ¶90.
Third cause of action for statutory
fraudulent transfer – actual intent under Civil Code §3439.04, fourth cause of
action for statutory fraudulent transfer – constructive intent under Civil Code
§3439.05, and fifth cause of action for common law fraudulent transfer
            Under Civil Code §3439.04, “(a) A
transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor,
whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred, if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the
obligation as follows:  (1) With actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (2) Without receiving
a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and
the debtor either: (A) Was engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction
for which the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in
relation to the business or transaction. (B) Intended to incur, or believed or
reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the
debtor’s ability to pay as they became due.
            (b) In determining actual intent . .
. consideration may be given, among other factors, to any or all of the
following:  (1) Whether the transfer or
obligation was made to an insider.  (2) Whether
the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after the
transfer.  (3) Whether the transfer or
obligation was disclosed or concealed.  (4)
Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had
been sued or threatened with suit.  (5) Whether
the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets.  (6) Whether the debtor absconded.  (7) Whether the debtor removed or concealed
assets.  (8) Whether the value of the
consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of
the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.  (9) Whether the debtor was insolvent or became
insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.  (10) Whether the transfer occurred shortly
before or after a substantial debt was incurred.  (11) Whether the debtor transferred the
essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an
insider of the debtor.
(c) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.” 
Under Civil Code §3439.05, “(a) A transfer
made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor whose
claim arose before the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation without receiving a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the
debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of
the transfer or obligation.
(b) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.”
Under Civil Code §3439.09, “A cause
of action with respect to a transfer or obligation under this chapter is
extinguished unless action is brought pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
3439.07 or levy made as provided in subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 3439.07:
(a) Under paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 3439.04, not later than four years after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred or, if later, not later than
one year after the transfer or obligation was or could reasonably have been discovered
by the claimant.
(b) Under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 3439.04 or Section 3439.05, not later than four
years after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.
(c) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a cause of action under this chapter with respect to a
transfer or obligation is extinguished if no action is brought or levy made
within seven years after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.”
            Defendants argue that the UVTA
claims are time-barred because the complaint was filed on August 18, 2023
alleging that on January 25, 2015, Li formed Wei Lai, Li purchased a residence
in San Marino on January 29, 2015, the first property was transferred to Wei
Lai on April 4, 2016 and title to the second property to Wei Lai on June 7,
2017—all more than six years before the complaint was filed.  Defendant asserts that the “large amount of
verbiage” regarding belated discovery is insufficient and conclusory because
the establishment of Wei Lai, purchase of the properties, and the transfers of
the titles were all recorded in publicly filed documents.  Thus, defendants argue, plaintiff had
constructive knowledge.
            Defendants also argue that although
the FAC alleges that Li transferred the properties “without providing
reasonably equivalent value,” plaintiff also alleges that Li is not only the
sole owner of Wei Lai but she is the alter ego; thus, when she transferred the
properties, she received identical value because the value of Wei Lai’s
membership units was increased by the amount of the transfer.  Defendants also assert that Li has not
transferred any property beyond the reach of creditors.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the fraudulent transfer claims are not time-barred under the delayed discovery
doctrine and that plaintiff sufficiently alleged delayed discovery.  Plaintiff asserts that it alleges that it
exercised diligence to locate Li.  Plaintiff
also asserts that the Court should reject defendants’ “constructive notice
theory” as it has no legal basis to “everyone on the earth about a land
seller’s whereabouts.”  Plaintiff also
argues that a fraudulent transfer claim may involve two parties alleged to be
alter egos of each other and whether reasonable value was given is a question
of fact “unsuitable for determination by way of a demurrer.”
            The Court rules as follows:  A plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face
that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must
specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2)
the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.  See CAMSI IV v. Hunter Technology Corp.
(1991) 230 Cal. App. 3d 1525, 1536-37. “Mere conclusory assertions that delay
in discovery was reasonable are insufficient and will not enable the complaint
to withstand general demurrer.”  Id.

            The Court finds that the allegations
are sufficient as to delayed discovery and the FAC is thus not barred on its
face by the statute of limitations.  The
Court also finds that the allegations are sufficient to meet the elements.
The demurrer is thus OVERRULED.
 
Strike
Defendants request that the Court
strike the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the FAC, the requests
for attorney’s fees under each of the three causes of action [at paras. 115,
131, and 148], and Exhibit A.
As for the three causes of action,
defendants contend that the FAC was filed a day late; thus, the causes of
action should be stricken.
As for attorney’s fees, defendants
argue that there is no statutory or contractual authority to award attorney’s
fees for the fraudulent transfer claims. 
As for Exhibit A, defendants point
out that it is in the Chinese language without any certified English
translation accompanying it, citing to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1110(g),
which provides that “Exhibits written in a foreign language must be accompanied
by an English translation, certified under oath by a qualified interpreter.”
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that its filing of the FAC was timely – on April 10, 2024, defendants served
notice by email of the Court’s April 4, 2024 ruling giving plaintiff twenty
days leave to amend.  Adding two court
days, plaintiff contends the deadline to file was May 3, 2024.  Assuming it was untimely by a day, defendants
suffered no meaningful prejudice.
As for attorney’s fees, plaintiff
contends that the prayer is founded in at least the underlying judgment, citing
to CCP §685.040.
As to Exhibit A, plaintiff argues
that Rule 3.1110(g) applies to foreign documents to support a motion, and the
FAC is not a motion.
The Court rules as follows:  In light of the ruling on the demurrer and
the Court’s discretion, the motion is DENIED as to striking the third, fourth,
and fifth causes of action.  Although
based on the Court’s calculations (based on service via email of the notice by defendants’
attorney on April 10, 2024), the FAC was due to be filed on May 2, 2024, but
not filed until May 3, there is no prejudice to defendants and the error
appears to have been inadvertent.  The
Court clarifies that it made its ruling on the demurrer on March 28, 2024 (and
not on April 4 as plaintiff suggests) and ordered defendants to give notice,
which they eventually did on April 10. 
As for plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees under the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action, the Uniform
Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”) “does not itself entitle the prevailing party
to attorney fees.”  G.F. Galaxy Corp.
v. Johnson (2024) 100 Cal. App. 5th 542, 554.  Under CCP §685.040, “[t]he judgment creditor
is entitled to the reasonable and necessary costs of enforcing a judgment.  Attorney’s fees incurred in enforcing a
judgment are not included in costs collectible under this title unless otherwise
provided by law.  Attorney’s fees
incurred in enforcing a judgment are included as costs collectible under this
title if the underlying judgment includes an award of attorney’s fees to the
judgment creditor pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (10) of subdivision
(a) of Section 1033.5.”  Here, plaintiff
alleges that the underlying judgment includes an award of attorney’s fees.  Further, “the statute by its terms is broad
enough to encompass fees expended to enforce a judgment against third parties
who conspired with the judgment debtor to evade its enforcement.”  Cardinale v. Miller (2014) 222 Cal.
App. 4th 1020, 1035.  The
motion is DENIED as to request for attorney’s fees under the third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action.
As for Exhibit A, plaintiff is
correct that Rule 3.1110 applies to motions and does not refer to
pleadings.  However, the Court will not
enforce a judgment it cannot read, review, and consider.
The motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND as to Exhibit A.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action in the FAC.  
The motion to strike is DENIED as
to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action and plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees under those causes of action. 
The motion is GRANTED as to Exhibit A. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve an amended complaint that
includes Exhibit A accompanied by an English translation, certified under oath
by a qualified interpreter, within twenty days. 
Defendants are ordered to file an answer within twenty days after
service of the amended complaint.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.