  Case Number:  20STCV20353    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




FRANK LEE,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
PARAMOUNT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV20353




Hearing
  Date:


April 22,
   2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT AND AWARD OF COSTS




            
Background
Plaintiff Frank Lee
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 28, 2020 against Defendant Paramount
Unified School District (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for 
(1) discrimination on the basis of
race; (2) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation; and (4) disability discrimination. 
            On
January 24, 2023, the Court issued an Order granting Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment. 
            On
August 24, 2023, the Court issued an “Order on Request to Enter Costs on
Judgment.” The August 24, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
Costs as indicated in Defendants’ Memorandum of Costs in the amount of
$4,523.60 are to be entered on the Judgment.” 
            Plaintiff
now moves “for an order to set aside, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 473, the Costs Judgment entered on August 24, 2023 in
the amount of $4,523.60.” Defendant filed a “non-opposition” to the motion
indicating that “Defendant, Paramount Unified School District, is not opposing
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Judgment and Award of Costs.” 
            Request for Judicial Notice 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice. 
            Discussion 
In support of the motion, Plaintiff cites to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), which provides in
pertinent part as follows:
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) also contains a mandatory provision:
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” Under the mandatory
provision, the attorney’s neglect does not need to be excusable. (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 225.)  
            As
set forth above, on August 24, 2023, the Court issued an “Order on Request to
Enter Costs on Judgment,” which provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
Costs as indicated in Defendants’ Memorandum of Costs in the amount of
$4,523.60 are to be entered on the Judgment.” 
            Plaintiff cites to Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(6), which provides that “[i]n civil actions brought under this section, the court,
in its discretion, may award to the prevailing party, including the department,
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, including expert witness fees, except
that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, a prevailing defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs
unless the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless
when brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became
so.” Plaintiff asserts that here, “Defendant is not entitled to recover
its costs as it has failed to show that Plaintiff filed his lawsuit without
foundation or that this lawsuit was ‘frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless
when brought.’” (Mot. at pp. 5:26-6:1.) 
            Plaintiff asserts that “Plaintiff’s
failure to timely file a Motion to Strike/Tax Costs was due to issues existing
in the Law Offices of Gary R. Carlin which caused the attorneys in this firm to
overlook the need to file this motion. These issues are set forth in greater
detail in the Declaration of Gary R. Carlin filed concurrently with this
motion. This shows that Plaintiff’s failure to file a Motion to Strike/Tax
Costs was not deliberate, but was rather due to mistake, inadvertence, and
excusable neglect due to the extraordinary circumstances that had arisen in this
firm and in Plaintiff’s counsel’s personal life which caused him the firm [sic]
to overlook the need to file a Motion to Strike/Tax Costs.” (Mot. at p.
6:14-22.) 
            As discussed, Plaintiff moves to set
aside the August 24, 2023 Order pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473. (Notice of Motion at p. 2:4.) As set forth
above, Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b) provides, inter alia, that “[n]otwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client,
and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Emphasis
added.) However, here,
Plaintiff does not move to set aside any default, default judgment, or dismissal.
            Plaintiff also cites to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), which provides that “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” Plaintiff appears to be asserting that the
failure to object to the costs requested constitutes a “mistake in any other
respect.” As noted above, there is no opposition to Plaintiff’s assertion.
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown that Code of Civil Procedure section 473 provides grounds
for the relief sought in the instant motion and the Court sets aside the Court’s
August 24, 2023 Order.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling. 
 
DATED:  April 22, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 