..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV47149
Plaintiff's Name: Babak Piltan
Defendant's Name: John J Kaiser, Kaiser Legal Services, Inc.
People-Names: Babak Piltan, John J Kaiser
Company-Names: Kaiser Legal Services, Inc., Mac Daddy Films, LLC
Places: Los Angeles County
Dates: July 13, 2020, February 5, 2024
Events: Motion to Compel Arbitration, Arbitration Agreement
Money: None
Intentions: To compel arbitration and stay the action
Facts: Plaintiff entered into a contract with Defendant John J Kaiser for representation in two LASC cases; the contract includes an arbitration provision
Disputes: Plaintiff argues that he cannot be compelled to arbitration under the 52 Letter because neither he nor Kaiser are parties to the agreement
Acts: Plaintiff filed a Complaint; Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration and stay the action; Plaintiff filed a sur-reply
Agreements: 52 Letter, 50 Letter
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1281.2, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330
Case Citations: Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Co., Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp., Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1280, California Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1281.2
Roles: Plaintiff (Babak Piltan), Defendant (John J Kaiser, Kaiser Legal Services, Inc.)
Significant Statements:
* The court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists
* The petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion
* Once petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement
* A party who has not signed a contract containing an arbitration clause may nonetheless be compelled to arbitrate when he seeks enforcement of other provisions of the same contract that benefit him
* A nonsignatory plaintiff can be compelled to arbitrate a claim even against a nonsignatory defendant, when the claim is itself based on, or inextricably intertwined with, the contract containing the arbitration clause
```

And here is the English text to summarize the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has granted the defendants' motion to compel arbitration and stay the action. The court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate exists between the parties based on the 52 Letter, which includes an arbitration provision. Despite the plaintiff's argument that he cannot be compelled to arbitration because he is not a party to the agreement, the court has found that the plaintiff is subject to the arbitration provision under the equitable estoppel doctrine. The plaintiff's claims are based on and "inextricably intertwined with" the 52 Letter, and therefore the plaintiff is bound by the arbitration provision. The court has also found that the 50 Letter, which was signed by the plaintiff in his individual capacity, applies to the plaintiff's claims.
