  Case Number:  23STCV16333    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  73 10/30/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GARCIA, et al. v. KIA AMERICA, INC. (23STCV16333)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/ moving party:  Guy Mizrahi (JSGM
Law LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Matthew
Proudfoot (Gates, Gonter, Guy, Proudfoot & Muench, LLP)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE (filed 3/19/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to the Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 14, 20, 23, 26, 39, 41 and 43 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days.
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to the Special
Interrogatories, Set One, No. 25 is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
 
On July 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Elroy Garcia and Pauline Arredondo filed
the instant action against Defendant KIA America, Inc. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Express Warranty under The Song-Beverly Act
2.     
Breach of lmplied Warranty of Merchantability under The
Song-Beverly Act
3.     
Civil Code § 1793.2(b) under The Song-Beverly Act
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On or about March 16, 2021,
Plaintiffs acquired a 2021 Kia Sorento, vehicle identification number
5XYRK4LF2MG020013 (“Vehicle”), for paid and/or payable consideration. All owners and lessees of 2021 KIA vehicles receive multiple
express warranties directly from Defendant for periods of up to 10 years or
100,000 miles. The Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiffs with serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to loss of power, engine
and related systems, check engine light, engine misfire, engine failure,
powertrain system, auto stop/start, safety recalls, transmission and related
systems, excessive days out of service and other defects. However, Defendant
has failed to conform the Vehicle to the applicable warranties because said
defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or nonconformities continue to exist
even after a reasonable number of attempts to repair was given. 
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs move to compel further responses to Interrogatory Nos. 14, 20,
23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43.
·       The Special
Interrogatories at issue seek the identification of critical witnesses in this
“lemon law” action. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks the identification of key
witnesses, namely, those who inspected and tested the Vehicle and those who
performed warranty repairs on the Vehicle; those who participated in the
investigation relating to Plaintiff’s complaints of the Vehicle; the Person
Most Knowledgeable of Defendant relating to warranty policies the person in
charge of the customer relations department in the district or region having
jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint; those who made the decision not to
repurchase and/or replace the Vehicle; and the supervisor who was in charge to
make sure Defendant properly determines whether a vehicle should be repurchased
or replace under the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiff is entitled to know the
identity of these witnesses are in order to take their depositions and prepare
for trial.
·       Defendant
responded to the requests with boilerplate objections and Defendant’s responses
are not code compliant.
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Defendant
served code-compliant responses.
·       Plaintiffs Seek
To Compel Information Previously Produced By Defendant Or Not In Defendant’s
Possession, Custody, Or Control, Contrary To California Code And Applicable
Case Law. Defendant’s Responses Were Compliant With The Applicable California
Code Sections, And Justifiably Preserved Warranted Objections When They Were
Served.
 
Plaintiffs did not file a reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
A court may
order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when any of the
following apply: (1) an answer is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents under Section 2030.230¿is unwarranted¿or the
required specification of those documents is¿inadequate; or (3) an objection is
without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2030.300(a).)¿ 
 
“[A]ny party
may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to
the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of
any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2017.010.)¿¿ 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party must make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and submit a
declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310(b)(2),
2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).)¿ 
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel states she sent a meet and confer letters to Defendant's counsel
regarding deficiencies with the discovery responses at issue. (Le Decl., ¶¶ 14-19.) However, Plaintiffs’
counsel states Defendant has not provided any further supplemental responses
and has failed to produce any additional documents. (Le Decl., ¶ 20.) The Court finds the moving
party has met its meet and confer obligation. Accordingly, the Court will consider
the merits of the motion.
 
C.      Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move to compel further
responses to Interrogatory
Nos. 14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and
43.
 
a.       Interrogatory
Nos. 14, 20 and 23
 
Interrogatory
No. 14 states “IDENTIFY all PERSONS who performed warranty repairs upon the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.”
 
Interrogatory
No. 20 states “IDENTIFY all PERSONS who inspected or tested the SUBJECT VEHICLE
during the RELEVANT PERIOD.”
 
Interrogatory
No. 23 states “IDENTIFY all PERSONS who have knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notice(s)
of DEFECT to YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF.”
 
Defendant
objected to this request, including on the grounds that the request is vague, overly
broad, the information is equally available to Plaintiffs, seeks documents that
are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence
and is irrelevant. Defendant also states that subject and without waiving any
objections, Defendant “refers Plaintiffs to the service records that [Defendant]
requested from the independent authorized dealerships. See also [Defendant’s]
Response to Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 12.1. Investigation and discovery
are ongoing and as such [Defendant] reserves the right to amend this response.”
As to Interrogatory No. 23, Defendant states it refers Plaintiffs to the
Warranty History Inquiry, Customer Care Case Reports and the Techline
Assistance Center Case Reports, which contain confidential and proprietary
information, and thus will only be produced subject to the Protective Order in
this case.
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause as to why the information
sought in these requests is necessary and relevant to their case. The requested
information is relevant to Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims and asks Defendant
to identify key witnesses. To the extent Defendant asserts a privacy privilege, it must
submit a privilege log identifying the documents and the grounds for
establishing protection for the determination of the applicability of such
privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) [“If an objection is based on a
claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work
product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other
parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.”].) Here, Defendant has not provided a privilege log.
 
The motion to
compel further response to Special Interrogatory Nos. 14, 20 and 23 is granted.
 
b.      Interrogatory
No. 25
 
Interrogatory
No. 25 states “IDENTIFY all PERSONS responsible for the customer relations
department in the district or region having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s
complaints during the RELEVANT PERIOD.”
 
Defendant objects
to this interrogatory as follows: 
“1. This Interrogatory as vague, ambiguous, overly broad,
burdensome, oppressive, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. 
2. This interrogatory is vague and ambiguous as to “responsible
for the customer relations department” as to be unintelligible, burdensome and
harassing.’”
 
The Court
agrees that the interrogatory is vague, and Plaintiffs do not provide
clarification as to persons “responsible for the customer relations department.”
The motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 25 is
denied.
 
c.       Interrogatory
No. 26
 
Interrogatory
No. 26 states “IDENTIFY YOUR present employee in California who is most
knowledgeable regarding YOUR warranty policies, including but not limited to
any policies YOU may have had regarding the replacement or reimbursement of
allegedly defective automobiles, during the RELEVANT PERIOD.”
 
Defendant
responds to this interrogatory as follows: 
 
“1. KA objects to this Interrogatory as being vague, ambiguous,
specifically as to the term “most knowledgeable.” 
Without waiving these objections, KA responds as follows: There is
not a single individual responsive to this Interrogatory. KA will produce an
appropriate corporate representative in response to a proper notice pursuant to
the Code of Civil Procedure. Investigation and discovery are ongoing and as
such KA reserves the right to amend this response.”
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause as to why the information
sought in these requests is necessary and relevant to their case. The requested
information is relevant to Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims and asks Defendant
to identify key witnesses. To the extent Defendant asserts a privacy privilege, it must
submit a privilege log identifying the documents and the grounds for
establishing protection for the determination of the applicability of such
privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) [“If an objection is based on a
claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work
product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other
parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.”].) Here, Defendant has not provided a privilege log.
 
The motion to
compel further response to Special Interrogatory No. 26 is granted.
 
d.      Interrogatory
Nos. 39, 41 and 43
 
Interrogatory
No. 39 states “Identify the individual(s) whose responsibility it is to supervise
to ensure that YOU are properly determining whether a vehicle should be
repurchased or replaced pursuant to The Song-Beverly Warranty Act.”
 
Interrogatory
No. 41 states “Identify all person(s) involved in YOUR investigation, including
any individuals with whom you communicated regarding the subject vehicle.”
 
Interrogatory
No. 43 states “Identify all individuals responsible for YOUR decision whether
or not repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle.”
 
Defendant
objected to this request, including on the grounds that the request is vague, overly
broad, lacks the requisite specificity, seeks privileged and confidential
information, seeks documents that are not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence and is irrelevant. 
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause as to why the information
sought in these requests is necessary and relevant to their case. The requested
information is relevant to Plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly claims and asks Defendant
to identify key witnesses. To the extent Defendant asserts a privacy privilege, it must
submit a privilege log identifying the documents and the grounds for
establishing protection for the determination of the applicability of such
privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) [“If an objection is based on a
claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work
product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other
parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.”].) Here, Defendant has not provided a privilege log.
 
The motion to
compel further response to Special Interrogatory Nos. 39, 41 and 43 is granted.
 
DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 14, 20, 23, 26, 39, 41 and 43 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide code-compliant responses within
30 days.
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One, No. 25 is DENIED.