  Case Number:  20STCV15480    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  30 CHRISTINA GUTIERREZ vs CITY OF LOS ANGELESTENTATIVEDefendant’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, and special interrogatories are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide code-compliant responses within 20 days of this order.Defendant’s motion to compel responses to request for production of documents is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Legal StandardCompel InterrogatoriesIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) If a party to whom the interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)Compel RPDsWhere there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.SanctionsSanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)DiscussionOn August 2, 2023, AEG served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Sets One, on Plaintiff. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) Responses to these discovery requests were due on or before September 6, 2023. (Id., ¶ 4.) On August 31, 2023, Plaintiff requested an extension of time, to September 26, 2023, to serve her responses, which was granted. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff failed to serve responses by the due date. (Id., ¶ 6.)In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel states that responses with verifications have now been served, and argues that the motions are moot. Further, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that he has been trying to obtain information from Plaintiff regarding the discovery for several months. Plaintiff’s counsel continued to try to communicate with Plaintiff and was eventually informed by Plaintiff that she had been experiencing significantly increased medical complications from certain medical conditions; some incident-related and some unrelated. Plaintiff informed counsel that her medical condition has become quite difficult and often incapacitating.In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff served untimely responses and thus, waived objections. However, Plaintiff’s responses to the Interrogatories and Requests for Production contained objections, and the responses to the interrogatories improperly exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230.On December 29, 2023, this Court found that Plaintiff served untimely responses and waived objections. The court further noted that neither party had submitted Plaintiff’s late verified responses in order for the Court to determine if they are code-compliant responses, and to verify whether they contain improper objections and improperly exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230. Thus, the motions were continued to allow Defendant to file Plaintiff’s untimely verified responses.Now, Defendant has filed the responses. Defendant also provides that Plaintiff filed amended responses to the request for production of documents and form interrogatories. However, Defendant argues, the amended responses to the request for production of documents still contains objections. (Lopez Suppl. Decl., Exh. G.) Moreover, the responses to the special and form interrogatories still contain the option to produce writing. (Id., Exhs. B, F.)The Court has reviewed the discovery responses and agrees with Defendant in part. The responses to the interrogatories improperly contain the option to produce a writing, even though that has been waived due to the untimely responses. As such, the motions to compel responses to Form and Special Interrogatories, Sets One, are GRANTED. However, the Court does not see any objections to the request for production of documents, and Defendant has failed to identify which responses contain objections. As such, the Court finds the motion to compel responses to request for production of documents is MOOT, as the responses are in substantial compliance.The Court denies the request for sanctions because Plaintiff’s counsel has provided substantial justification for the failure to provide timely responses.