 Case Number:  22STCV23939    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  30 JAIME ROBLES vs JONATHAN GILLETENTATIVEDefendant’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for production, and motion to deem matters admitted in requests for admission are GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified responses to the portion of the discovery responses that contain answers. Objections have been preserved.Defendant’s request for sanctions in connection with the motion to deem requests for admissions admitted is GRANTED in part. Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $510 within 20 days of this order.Legal StandardCompel InterrogatoriesIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)Deem RFAs Admitted“If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: The requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted…. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The Court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect…. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(a).) The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)Compel RPDsWhere there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.SanctionsSanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions as true. Sanctions are also mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c), 2033.280(c).)DiscussionOn November 3, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents, and Request for Admissions, Sets One, on Defendant. (Dayen Decl., Exhs. A-C.) On December 5, 2023, Defendant’s counsel served unverified evasive discovery responses. (Id., Exh. D.)In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff did not meet and confer and did not participate in an IDC prior to filing this motion. Defendant argues it served objections, and thus, timely responses were provided. Defendant's counsel argues he has diligently worked and has tried to contact Defendant with no avail. Defendant's counsel has been unable to contact Defendant despite calling Defendant, leaving voicemails, and engaging in electronic communication to contact Defendant. Defendant's counsel has even sent a private investigator to make contact and locate Defendant. To date, Defendant's counsel has been unable to determine Defendant's exact location or contact Defendant.The Court notes there is no requirement to meet and confer or participate in an IDC in connection with motions to compel initials responses. Further, the Court notes that the responses to many of the discovery requests contain both objections and answers as well. For example, response number 20 denies the request for admission, with no objection. (Dayeh Decl., Exh. D.) Thus, the responses were hybrid. The failure to include a verification renders the substantive answer improper. However, the objection portion that is not verified is still effective because it was timely asserted within the time to respond when accounting for the time added due to service by email of the discovery.In Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 657, the court reasoned that when there are “hybrid” responses, containing both objections and substantive responses, failure to provide verifications only renders the substantive answers subject to a motion to compel. (Ibid.) The objections however are timely asserted and are thus not waived by the failure to provide a verification. (Ibid.) “The only situation in which lack of verification could both render the response untimely and result in a waiver of objections . . . is when the initial unverified response contains no objections.” (Id. p. 658.)Thus, as Plaintiff properly served discovery requests and Defendant has failed to serve verified responses to the portion that are an answer, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses. The Court also finds Plaintiff is entitled to an order establishing the truth of the matters in the request for admissions served on Defendant that Defendant has responded with an unverified answer. Therefore, the motions are granted.Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions as true. (CCP section 2033.280(c).) Nevertheless, the amount requested for sanctions is not reasonable for this straight-forward motion. Rather, the Court imposes sanctions against Defendant, only, in the amount of $510 ($450 an hour, for one hour, plus $60 in filing fees), to be paid within 20 days of this order.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions under CCP section 128.5 is denied. A motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other motions or requests. (CCP section 128.5(f)(1)(A).) The request is not made separately.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions under CCP section 2023.010 for the misuse of discovery is also denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)