  Case Number:  22STCV10036    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 15, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Bruce Dwain Copeland v. Amy Pham
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV10036            
 
 MOTION TO COMPEL
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Bruce Dwain Copeland, in propria persona
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Amy Pham
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/23/22: Complaint filed.
·        
03/14/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
05/24/23: Plaintiff deemed vexatious litigant.
·        
07/05/23: Notice of Appeal filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for quiet
title and injunctive relief. Plaintiff contends that Defendant is fraudulently
claiming ownership of the property in which Plaintiff resides and which he
contends that he owns.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production propounded to Defendant Amy Pham. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Pham’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,446.50 against Plaintiff.
Payment is to be made within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production propounded to Defendant Amy Pham. 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the docket in this action; (2)
the Court’s October 12, 2023 Ruling on Plaintiff’s Motions to Deem the Truth of
Matters in Requests for Admissions; (3) the several sequential oppositions
filed by Defendant in connection with Plaintiff’s Motions to Deem the Truth of
Matters in Requests for Admissions; and (4) Plaintiff’s responses to discovery
propounded to him by Defendant Pham. Defendant’s requests Nos. 1 through 3 are GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). As to Request No. 4,
however, Plaintiff’s responses to discovery propounded to him are not material
to this motion, nor are they matters which are properly the subject of judicial
notice. Accordingly, Defendant’s Request No. 4 is DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d
296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those matters which
are relevant to the issue at hand.”].)  
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand is directed fails to respond under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b), a
party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is
required. All that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response has been served. (Leach
v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            On
April 26, 2023, Defendant U.S. Bank National Association filed and served a
Motion to Deem Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 391.1. (April 26, 2023 Motion to Deem Vexatious Litigant.) Defendant
Amy Pham joined that motion on May 2, 2023. (Joinder to Motion filed May 2,
2023.) The filing of a motion to deem a plaintiff a vexatious litigant
automatically stays the litigation, subject to exceptions not relevant here,
until 10 days after either denial of the motion or, if the motion is granted,
furnishing of the required security and written notice given by the moving
defendant thereof. (Code Civ. Proc. § 391.6.) Although no proof of service is
attached to the requests for admissions, Plaintiff’s motions state on their
face that the Requests for Production that are the subject of these motions
were served on Defendant Pham on May 5, 2023, three days after her joinder to
the vexatious litigant motion and nine days after the motion was filed and
served. (See also Motion Exh. 1 [email with Requests for Production dated May
5, 2023].)  The Court granted the motion
on May 24, 2023, and required Plaintiff to furnish security as to U.S. Bank,
but not as to Defendant Pham. (May 24, 2023 Minute Order.) As Defendant Pham
correctly states in opposition to these motions, Plaintiff had no right to
propound discovery on May 5, 2023, when the Motion to Deem Plaintiff a
Vexatious Litigant was pending, as the entire action was stayed at that time. 
 
            Plaintiff
is therefore not entitled to an order compelling responses to requests for
production. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff for propounding discovery during a stay of
the litigation. 
 
            The
Court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in a misuse of the
discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Use of a discovery method in
a manner that does not comply with its specified procedures is a misuse of the
discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(b).) Persisting, over objection
and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or
materials that are outside the scope of permissible discovery is also a misuse
of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(a).) 
 
            Here,
Defendant requests a total of $8,199 in sanctions against Plaintiff. Defendant
bases the bulk of this request on the audacious demand for $6,050 in sanctions based
on fees which the Court declined to award in
connection with the Motions to Deem the Truth of Matters in Requests for
Admissions. (See Opp. p. 4:1-12.) Defendant cites no authority for such a
request, and the Court refuses to reconsider a matter on which it has already
ruled. Defendant also requests that the Court require Plaintiff to furnish security
in the amount of $50,000 as to his claims against Defendant Pham. Defendant
provides no legal authority justifying such a request in opposition to a
discovery motion, rather than a noticed motion to require an undertaking. As to the remainder of the fee
request, Defendant seeks sanctions based on the fees incurred in connection
with this opposition, amounting to 3 hours of attorney time at
$475 per hour, plus an anticipated 1.5 hours, plus $21.50 in filing fees.
(Declaration of Larry Rothman ISO Opp. ¶ 2.) 
 
            Defendant
has provided evidence that her counsel advised Plaintiff directly that the discovery
requests were improperly propounded as a violation of the stay of litigation
under Code of Civil Procedure section 391.6. (August 28, 2023 Opp. to Mot. to
Deem RFAs Admitted p. 8.) Plaintiff ignored Defendant’s objection and persisted
in pursuing discovery which was not permissible as a matter of law. Further,
Plaintiff has provided no justification for filing these motions in violation
of the stay. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has engaged in a misuse
of the discovery process and that monetary sanctions are warranted. However,
the Court declines to award sanctions based on fees not actually incurred. Nor
will the Court permit Defendant to recover additional sanctions which it
previously declined to award. The Court will therefore award monetary sanctions
in the total amount of $1,446.50, based on 3 hours of attorney time at
$475 plus $21.50 in filing fees actually incurred in opposition to this motion.

 
//
 
//
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Pham’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,446.50 against Plaintiff.
Payment is to be made within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated November 15, 2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 