  Case Number:  24STCP03350    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  82 John Doe v.
Meera Ratnesar, et al., Case No. 24STCP03350
 
Petitioner
John Doe (“Petitioner”), a minor, filed a petition for writ of mandate challenging
his expulsion from the Curtis School.  Petitioner
named the Curtis School and Meera Ratnesar, in her official capacity as Head of
School, as respondents (collectively, “Respondents”).  Respondents filed a motion to compel
arbitration on November 15, 2024. 
Petitioner filed an opposition on November 25, 2024, which included a
declaration from Petitioner’s parent.  According
to Petitioner’s counsel, he “inadvertently attached an incompletely redacted
copy of corresponden[ce] that did not fully redact Petitioner’s Friend’s name
and school email address on one page of the exhibits attached to the declaration.”  The friend is a minor and not a party to the
case.  Thus, Petitioner has filed an ex
parte application to seal the declaration and to re-file a redacted version of the
declaration/exhibit. 
 
This ex
parte application is not opposed.  No
third parties appeared at the hearing to argue against sealing.  Therefore, the court decides this
ex parte application without a hearing, per Code of Civil Procedure section
166(a)(1).  The court has considered the
factors required under California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) and NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178,
1217-1218.  The court finds that
redacting the friend’s name is necessary to protect the privacy of a minor
third-party, and this overriding interest would be prejudiced absent
redaction.  The proposed redaction is narrowly-tailored
to achieve this objective, and no less restrictive means exist to protect the friend’s
privacy.  Finally, the public’s right to understand
the proceedings will not be compromised by this limited redaction. 
 
Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.       Petitioner’s ex parte application is
granted.  
 
2.       The court orders that the declaration of
Petitioner’s parent and exhibits, filed on November 25, 2024, shall be sealed.
 
3.       Petitioner’s counsel shall file a new
declaration with the necessary redactions, per this order, forthwith.  
 
4.       Petitioner’s counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of service with the court. 

 