 Case Number:  24STCV00723    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jose Gutierrez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV00723




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Tesla Energy Operations, Inc., 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Tesla Energy Operations,
Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Jose Gutierrez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant, asserting causes of action for Labor Code
violations, FEHA violations and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provision in the offer letter signed by Plaintiff on
October 31, 2020. (Decl. Flesch, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “[A]ny and all disputes, claims, or causes of action, in law or equity,
arising from or relating to your employment, or the termination of your
employment, will be resolved, to the fullest extent permitted by law by final,
binding and private arbitration in your city and state of employment conducted
by the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services/Endispute, Inc. (“JAMS”), or
its successors, under the then current rules of JAMS for employment disputes …” (Id.) This action arises from
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration agreement
is procedurally unconscionable as it is an adhesion contract. Regarding
procedural unconscionability, the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds that a low degree of
procedural unconscionability exists here as the agreement is one of adhesion.
This low degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it contains an illegal fee shifting
provision, prohibits appeal, and requires Plaintiff to waive PAGA and class
claims. Regarding attorney’s fees, the agreement states that the parties are
entitled to the remedies that would be allowed in court, and requires Defendant
pay all fees greater than what would be allowed in court. This is not
substantively unconscionable. The agreement’s silence on appeal does not render
the agreement unconscionable; the nature of an arbitration agreement is that
the parties waive the right to the procedures of the court system. And the PAGA
and class waiver are capable of being severed. The agreement is not
substantively unconscionable. 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED. The action is STAYED.
 
 
 