  Case Number:  22STCV37059    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 13, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Titanium Power Group Inc. v. Evergreen
Smart Energy Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV37059            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Titanium Power Group, Inc., and Anat
Ghermezi.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainant Evergreen
Smart Energy, Inc. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/23/22: Complaint filed.
·        
08/01/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
01/08/24: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/22/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Evergreen
Smart Energy, Inc. as to Titanium Power Group, Inc. and Anat Ghermezi.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a contractor dispute. Plaintiff alleges that it subcontracted
with Defendants to install toilets in certain properties that were subject to a
rebate under the Southern California Water Smart Program. Plaintiff claims that
Defendants failed to obtain customer consent to install those fixtures and did
not perform the subcontracted work adequately. 
 
Cross-Defendants Titanium Power
Group, Inc. and Anat Ghermezi demur to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Cross-Defendants Titanium Power
Group, Inc. and Anat Ghermezi demur to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the (cross-)
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Maurice Wainer,
counsel for Cross-Defendants, states that he sent an email to
Cross-Complainant’s counsel stating the reasons for the demurrer and requesting
to meet and confer regarding these issues on June 24, 2024. (Declaration of
Maurice Wainer ISO Demurrer ¶ 3.) Attorney Wainer also states that he attempted
to telephone Cross-Complainant’s counsel on June 26, 2024, but was not
successful. (Id.) As of the filing of this demurrer, Attorney Wainer
states that he had not received any response to either the email or the
telephone call. (Id. ¶ 4.) Cross-Defendants have therefore satisfied
their statutory meet-and-confer obligations.  
 
//
 
//
First Cause of Action: Breach of Written Contract
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for breach of contract for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and finally the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.) Further, the complaint must indicate
whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ.Proc. §
430.10(g).) General allegations stating that defendants violated a contract are
insufficient, and plaintiffs must state facts showing a breach. (Levy v.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-6.) For
breach of a written contract, the essential terms must be set out verbatim in
the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached
and incorporated by reference. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.,
supra, 166 Cal.App.3d at 459.) However, a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language. (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. Tig Specialty Insurance (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-99.) 
 
Cross-Defendants contend that Cross-Complainant’s
first cause of action is insufficiently pled because the written contracts at
issue are not identified, nor are essential terms set out beyond the allegation
that Cross-Complainant “agreed to install water savings toilets at various
locations.” (FAXC ¶ 10.) In the Court’s view, this characterization of the
pleadings is overly reductive. More precisely, the First Amended
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants contracted with Evergreen for the
installation of water-saving toilets at a quoted price. (Id.) Allegedly,
Cross-Defendants, unbeknownst to Cross-Complainant, employed the contracts as
part of a scheme to defraud the Southern California Smart Water Program by
claiming that Cross-Defendants had performed the work, rather than
Cross-Complainant. (Id.) Cross-Defendants allegedly planned to use a
portion of the reimbursement from the Smart Water Program to pay
Cross-Complainant while pocketing the remainder. (Id.) However, when the
scheme was discovered, the Smart Water Program cut off funding, leaving
Cross-Defendants unable to pay Cross-Complainant the sum owed. (Id.)  
 
Cross-Defendants specifically argue
that the Cross-Complaint does not allege the time or place for the work to be
performed by Cross-Complainant and does not specifically allege a time when
payment under the contracts became due. Cross-Defendants contend that McCaskey
v. California State Automobile Association requires a party claiming breach
of contract to plead that the time specified for performance has arrived. (See McCaskey
v. California State Automobile Association (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 947.)
Cross-Defendants are mistaken. First, McCaskey is procedurally
inapposite to this case, as, in that opinion, the Court of Appeal was concerned
with whether Plaintiff had demonstrated a triable issue of fact on a motion for
summary judgment and was not concerned with the pleadings. (McCaskey, supra,
189 Cal.App.4th at 956.) Second, McCaskey’s quotation of Taylor v.
Johnston (1975) 15 Cal.3d 130 at 137 that “[t]here can be no actual
breach of a contract until the time specified therein for performance has
arrived” merely describes the distinction between an anticipatory breach of
contract and an actual breach of contract for the purpose of a statute of
limitations analysis. (McCaskey, supra, 189 Cal.App.4th at 958.) Nothing
in McCaskey, nor the authorities it relies upon, establishes that a
claim for breach of contract is inadequately pled because it has not alleged a
specific time for performance which has arrived. Moreover, even if that were
the case, the Cross-Complaint alleges that the parties entered into contracts
for the installation of water saving toilets for a quoted price, and that
Cross-Complainant installed those toilets. (FAXC ¶ 10.) Thus, construed in the
light most favorable to Cross-Complainant, as required on a demurrer, the
Cross-Complaint alleges that the time for Cross-Defendants’ performance had
arrived because Cross-Complainant installed the toilets they were hired to
install. The Court is therefore not persuaded that the Cross-Complaint is
deficient in this respect.
 
Cross-Defendants also contend that
the first cause of action is deficient as to Cross-Defendant Ghermezi because
the Cross-Complaint does not allege that he is a party to the contracts and
does not adequately plead alter ego. First, the Court observes that the
Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Complainant entered into contracts with
“Defendants,” i.e., both Cross-Defendants Titanium and Ghermezi. (See FAXC ¶
10.) For that reason alone, the Court is inclined to reject this argument.
Second, the Court is not persuaded that the alter ego allegations are
deficient. 
 
To hold an owner of a corporation
personally liable for the acts of the corporation as an alter ego of the owner,
“[f]irst, there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between the
corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the
corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be
an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the
corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 539.) Here, the First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that
Titanium is undercapitalized (FAXC ¶ 8A; 8C), that Cross-Defendant Ghermezi completely
commingled his personal finances with Titanium’s (¶ 8B), and that Titanium did
not observe corporate formalities, such as the holding of required company
meetings or keeping minutes of proceedings. (¶ 8D.) To that end,
Cross-Complainants allege that adherence to the fiction of the separate
existence of Titanium would constitute an injustice in this case. (FAXC ¶ 8E.) Construing
the allegations in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, as
required on a demurrer, the First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that Titanium
is undercapitalized and insolvent, which would lead to an inequitable result if
Cross-Complainant prevails against the corporation. Under the favorable
construction required on a demurrer, the Court finds these allegations
sufficient to state claims for alter ego liability. 
 
The Court also observes that
Cross-Defendants assert in the body of their moving papers that the
Cross-Complaint does not comply with the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10 subdivision (g). As Cross-Defendants’ demurrer does
not identify this provision as a basis for their attack on the First Amended
Cross-Complaint, this argument has not been properly raised and must be
disregarded.
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Account Stated
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for account stated for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Cross-Defendants contend that
this claim is deficient because Cross-Complainant has alleged an express
contract, and claims for common counts do not lie where an express contract is
established. (E.g., Moore v. Bartholomae Corp. (1945) 69 Cal.App.2d 474,
477 [account stated]; Tsemetzin v. Coast Federal Savings and Loan
Association (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1344 [open book account].) However,
it is also well-settled that a party may plead inconsistent factual
allegations in the alternative. (E.g., Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th
583, 593; Mendoza v. Cont’l Sales Co. 20060 140 Cal.App.4th 1395,
1402.) The Court is therefore not persuaded that the first cause of action precludes
this cause of action.
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Work and Labor Performed
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the third cause of action on the same basis as the second cause of
action. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer
to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Open Book Account
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the
fourth cause of action on the same basis as the second cause of action.
Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Uncertainty
 
            Cross-Defendants
also purport to demur to each cause of action as uncertain. 
 
Demurrers¿for uncertainty are disfavored,
because discovery can be used for clarification, and they apply only where
defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated.¿(Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822; Khoury v. Maly's of Cal.,
Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) If the complaint is sufficiently
comprehensible that Defendant can reasonably respond, the complaint is not
uncertain. (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 841, 848 n.3.)
 
            At the
outset, although Cross-Defendants’ demurrer cites Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10(f), which governs challenges for uncertainty of the pleadings,
the demurrer does not specifically state in what way any cause of action is
uncertain. For that reason alone, the demurrer is arguably deficient as to this
contention. Notwithstanding the ambiguity of the demurrer, as the Court has
found that each cause of action states facts sufficient to constitute a claim,
it should be readily apparent that the First Amended Cross-Complaint is not
uncertain. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 13,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 