 Case Number:  23STCV21111    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 13, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         State Compensation Insurance Fund v.
Computer Institute of Technology
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21111            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS;
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff State Compensation Insurance Fund
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Computer
Institute of Technology
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a fraud action that was filed on August 31, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant submitted invoices for reimbursement for job training without
disclosing that the training was being offered in Spanish and without first
securing approval to conduct the training in Spanish. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to special interrogatories and requests for production propounded to
Defendant, and for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to special interrogatories propounded to
Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            Defendant
served its initial responses to the discovery at issue on this motion on May
24, 2024. (Declaration of Gary R. Soliman ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) During the subsequent
meet-and-confer process, the parties twice agreed to extend the time to bring
this motion, first to July 22, 2024, and then to August 5, 2024. (Id. ¶¶
7-8; Exh. E.) This motion was filed and served on August 5, 2024. The motion is
therefore timely.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further
responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable
and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the
motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300
(b)(1).)
 
            The
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel states that counsel for the parties met and
conferred on June 21, 2024, then on July 3, 2024, and then again on July 18,
2024. (Soliman Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
purports to move to compel further responses to special interrogatories
propounded to Defendant. Neither Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion nor the
supporting Memorandum of Points and Authorities identify which responses to
Plaintiff’s special interrogatories are at issue. That said, the Separate
Statement in support of the Motion references only Special Interrogatories Nos.
1 and 3. As the express purpose of a Separate Statement is to set forth in a
single document all information necessary to understand the dispute on a given
discovery motion, the Court construes this motion as pertaining only to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 3. (See Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
            Plaintiff
served discovery requests, including these interrogatories, on Defendant via
email on March 20, 2024. (Soliman Decl. Exh. A.) Defendant’s responses were
provided, pursuant to an agreed-upon extension, on May 22, 2024. (Id.
Exh. C.) Special Interrogatory No. 1 asked Defendant to identify all persons
and their job titles whom Defendant, or any of its affiliated entities or
individuals, employed as an employee or independent contractor since October 5,
2017. (Plaintiff’s Exh. C. No. 1.) Interrogatory No. 3 asked Defendant to
identify all persons between January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2022 who enrolled
in, attended, or completed a training class, course, or program offered by
Defendant. (Id. Exh. C. No. 3.) In response to both interrogatories,
Defendant asserted a series of boilerplate objections for overbreadth, undue
burden, ambiguity, irrelevance, and invading privacy rights. (Id. Exh.
C. Nos. 1, 3.) Defendant also objected to Interrogatory No. 3 as compound. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant first contends that it was not properly served with the
motion because Attorney Kevin Kay never received a copy of the motion. The
Court is not persuaded. Defendant’s papers throughout this action have listed
Lawrence Ecoff of Ecoff Campain & Kay, LLP as the lead attorney on this
matter, and Attorney Ecoff is expressly named on the proof of service. (See
Motion POS.) That one attorney for Defendant’s counsel did not receive a copy
of the moving papers does not establish the motion was not served.
 
Turning to the substance of the
motion, Defendant does not endeavor to justify its objections to these
responses, but instead asserts that supplemental responses were served on
August 7, 2024. (Declaration of Kevin T. Kay ISO Opp. ¶ 4.) In reply, Plaintiff
contends that the supplemental responses are inadequate. As the responding
party to interrogatories, Defendant bears the burden of demonstrating the
propriety of its responses, including any supplemental responses. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) By failing to include a copy of the supplemental
responses, Defendant has not carried that burden. Further, Defendant has failed
to demonstrate that its objections to these responses were proper. Plaintiff is
therefore entitled to an order compelling further responses.
 
//
 
//
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff also purports to request
sanctions in connection with this motion but the notice of motion does not
specify the party or attorney against whom sanctions are sought, in direct
violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040. The Court is therefore
without authority to award sanctions on this motion, as to do so would
constitute a violation of Defendant and its counsel’s due process rights. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production propounded to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Defendant served its initial
responses to the discovery at issue on this motion on May 24, 2024.
(Declaration of Gary R. Soliman ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) During the subsequent
meet-and-confer process, the parties twice agreed to extend the time to bring
this motion, first to July 22, 2024, and then to August 5, 2024. (Id. ¶¶
7-8; Exh. E.) This motion was filed and served on August 5, 2024. The motion is
therefore timely.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel states that counsel for the parties met and conferred on June 21, 2024,
then on July 3, 2024, and then again on July 18, 2024. (Soliman Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.)
The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to four requests for production propounded to
Defendant. Plaintiff propounded these requests on March 20, 2024. (Soliman
Decl. Exh. A.) These requests seek (1) contracts in effect from January 1, 2019
to December 31, 2022 between Defendant and any individual employed as an
employee or independent contractor; (2) all contracts in effect for the same
period between Defendant and any individual who enrolled in, attended, or
completed a training class, course, or program Defendant offered; (3) all
non-privileged documents Defendant sent to the California Bureau of Private
Postsecondary Education (BPPE); and (4) all non-privileged documents since
October 5, 2017 relating to any communication between Defendant and the BPPE. (Soliman
Decl. Exh. C.) These materials are facially related to the allegations in the
Complaint, and for that reason, Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for these
requests.
 
Defendant’s Responses
 
Defendant responded to each request
for production with a series of boilerplate objections for, inter alia, vagueness,
irrelevance, and violation of privacy rights and attorney-client privilege. In
opposition, Defendant does not endeavor to justify these objections. Instead,
Defendant asserts that it provided supplemental responses on August 7, 2024,
offering arguments substantially identical to those asserted in regards to the
special interrogatories. Thus, for the same reasons discussed above, the Court
finds that Defendant has failed to justify its objections and failed to
demonstrate that it has served a code-compliant supplemental response.
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling a further response.
 
//
 
//
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff also purports to request sanctions in connection with this
motion, but again the notice of motion does not specify the party or attorney
against whom sanctions are sought, in direct violation of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.040. The Court is therefore without authority to award
sanctions on this motion, as to do so would constitute a violation of Defendant
and its counsel’s due process rights. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is
DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 13,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 