 Case Number:  22PSCV02862    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lightking  America Technology (L.A.) LTD. v. Arbor CPA, APC, et al.  Non-Party  Zeming Qi’s Motion to Quash Subpoena, and/or for Protective Order  TENTATIVE RULING  The Court DENIES non-party Zeming Qi’s motion to quash subpoena,  and/or for protective order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On December 13, 2022, plaintiff  Lightking America Technology (LA), LTD filed this action against defendants  Arbor CPA, APC, Hui Heidi Liu, CPA, (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1  through 50. On May 9, 2023, Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD. and  Lightking American (L.A.), LTD. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the operative  First Amended Complaint against Defendants, alleging causes of action for  breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and aiding and abetting breach of  fiduciary duty.  On May 29, 2024, non-party Zeming Qi (Qi) moved to quash a  deposition subpoena and/or for a protective order in connection with a subpoena  served on Bank of America. On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. Qi  did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or  the production of books, documents, electronically  stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of  an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion  reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's  own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make  an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance  with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including  protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be  appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,  including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,  subd. (a).)  DISCUSSION            Meet and Confer            Although a meet-and-confer declaration is not required for a  motion to quash a subpoena, the Court generally requests parties to meet and  confer before bringing motions. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Dept. 6  Courtroom Information, p. 1.) The Court does not see anything from Qi  indicating an attempt to meet and confer before bringing this motion. The Court  reiterates its request that parties meet and confer before bringing any motions  in this matter. (See Id.)                        Summary of Arguments              Non-party Qi seeks to quash a Deposition Subpoena for  Production of Business Records recently served on Bank of America (the  Subpoena). Qi contends the Subpoena should be quashed because Qi was the  principal and sole shareholder of Lightking America, which is now dissolved,  and he did not authorize the filing of this action. Qi also contends the  Subpoena likely seeks proprietary and financial information in violation of  Lightking America’s right to privacy. Qi contends the scope of the Subpoena far  outweighs any likelihood of discovering evidence for this case, and that the Defendants  only prepared tax returns for Plaintiff in 2016 and 2017, but the lawsuit  relates to a time period after that and does not relate to Lightking America’s  banking records.              In opposition, Plaintiff contends Qi has not met the  burden of establishing the extent and seriousness of the alleged violation of  his right to privacy. Plaintiff contends Qi submitted a declaration that does  not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5, and otherwise does not  provide any support for Qi’s conclusion that he was the sole shareholder of  Lightking Technology or other evidence to support his claim. Plaintiff contends  Yuan Sun is the sole shareholder of Lightking Technology, that the tax returns  produced in this litigation also show Yuan Sun is the sole shareholder of  Lightking Technology, and that Qi cleared out Lightking Technology’s accounts  and stole its assets. Plaintiff further contends that either way, Qi does not  have a reasonable expectation of privacy of his personal records in the bank  records of a corporation. Plaintiff alternatively requests that only minimal  restrictions should be imposed on the Subpoena.             Plaintiff also contends that on May 5, 2023, Qi filed a  false certificate of election to wind up and dissolve Lightking Technology  without the board’s resolution or shareholder’s approval. Plaintiff further  notes that Bank of America provided responses on May 30, 2024.              Analysis              The Court finds Qi’s motion unpersuasive. First, “[t]he  party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy  interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given  circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Qi  does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy here. Regardless of whether  Qi is the sole shareholder or principal of Lightking America (or Lightking  Technology as referenced in Plaintiff’s opposition), it does not follow that Qi  has a reasonable expectation of privacy for personal records contained within  bank records of a corporation, which is treated as a separate person under the  eyes of the law, (see Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14  Cal.App.5th 214, 220), and where third-party banks possess those records, (see Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 36-37 [plaintiff must  have had a reasonable expectation of privacy under the circumstances, which  includes the customs, practices and physical settings surrounding the  particular activity.]) Qi also cites no authority indicating that the  sole shareholder has to authorize a lawsuit for it to be effective on behalf of  the corporation.              Second, Plaintiff presented evidence showing that Qi is not  the sole shareholder of Lightking America, (Sun Decl., Exs. B-C), and that Qi  improperly filed a certificate of election to windup and dissolve Lightking  America, (Id., ¶¶ 6-7).              Third, Plaintiff correctly argues that Qi’s declaration  fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5, which requires the  declaration to be made under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of  California if executed outside of California. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.5, subd.  (a).) Qi’s declaration indicates that it was executed in Costa Rica, but does  not state that it was executed under penalty of perjury under the laws of the  State of California. (See Qi Decl., p. 3.)  Fourth, Qi has not  presented a copy of the Subpoena, which renders the Court unable to assess the  scope of the documents sought. Even if Qi had presented a copy of the Subpoena,  Qi does not have standing to assert privacy rights on behalf of Lightking  America. A litigant may assert a third party’s right to privacy only “when the  third-party right asserted by the litigant is ’inextricably  bound up with the activity the litigant wishes to pursue’ and when some ‘genuine  obstacle’ prevents the absent party from asserting his or her own interest.  [Citation.]” (Lewis v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 561, 570.) As  noted above, Qi has no reasonable expectation of privacy in Lightking America’s  bank records, nor is Qi responsible for maintaining those records, like a  doctor is for a patient’s records. (See Id.) Thus, Qi’s interest here is  not inextricably bound up with the actions those entities wish to pursue,  namely banking.  Finally, Qi’s motion to quash is speculative, as it only  contends that the Subpoena the responsive documents seeks “are likely to  include proprietary information and financial information…” (Memorandum of  Points and Authorities, 4:23.) Qi presents no evidence that such subpoena will  include Qi’s personal records and thereby violate Qi’s privacy rights.              Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to  quash subpoena and/or for protective order.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES non-party Zeming Qi’s motion to quash subpoena,  and/or for protective order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.