 Case Number:  22NWCV00320    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  C PACIFIC SOUTHWEST  DISTRICT OF LUTHERAN CHURCH-MISSOURI SYNOD v. IRENE JENSEN, ET AL.  CASE NO.: 22NWCV00320 HEARING:  7/31/24 @ 9:30  A.M.    #2 TENTATIVE RULING         I.         Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of  Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod’s motion for leave to file the first amended  complaint is GRANTED.      II.         Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of  Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod’s motion for service by publication is DENIED  without prejudice.     Moving Party to give notice.      Background   This is a quiet title action filed by Pacific Southwest District  of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod (PSD) seeking to determine the ownership  of the church where Defendant Peace Lutheran Church (PLC) gathers.  PSD contends that it now owns the property  pursuant to PLC’s constitution because PLC’s congregation no longer exists.    PSD moves for leave to file the first amended complaint and for  service by publication.   Motion for Leave to File the First Amended Complaint   Legal Standard   The court may, in  furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to  amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any  party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any  other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or  demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) The court may likewise, in its  discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be  just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may  upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).)   A court can deny leave to amend  after long, inexcusable delay, where there is cognizable prejudice, such as  discovery needed, trial delay, critical evidence lost, or added preparation  expense. (Solit v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)   Discussion   On April 26, 2022,  Plaintiff filed the complaint. Plaintiff proposes the following changes:    (1) Identify “Doe 1” as “all persons unknown,  claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the  property described in the complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s title or any cloud  upon Plaintiff’s title thereto” (hereinafter referred to as “Unknown  Claimants”).  (2) Add a seventh cause of action for “declaratory  relief” against Chastity Carvel, Peace Lutheran Church, Incorporated, of South  Gate, California, Unknown Claimants, and Does 2-50.  (3) Add an eighth cause of action for “imposition of  constructive trust” against Chastity Carvel, Peace Lutheran Church,  Incorporated, of South Gate, California, Unknown Claimants, and Does 2-50.  (4) Add a ninth cause of action for “ejectment”  against Chastity Carvel, Peace Lutheran Church, Incorporated, of South Gate,  California, Unknown Claimants, and Does 2-50. 5.  (5) Add a twelfth paragraph to the Prayer “For a  judicial determination and declaration that defendants Chastity Carvel, Peace  Lutheran Church, Incorporated, of South Gate, California, Unknown Claimants,  and Does 2-50 hold the subject property and funds as constructive trustee(s)  for Plaintiff’s benefit; that a “constructive” or “resulting” trust be imposed  for the benefit of Plaintiff; and that an order be entered compelling Chastity  Carvel, Peace Lutheran Church, Incorporated, of South Gate, California, and Does  1-50 to transfer said property to Plaintiff.” (6) Add a thirteenth paragraph to the Prayer “For an  order directing defendants Chastity Carvel, Peace Lutheran Church,  Incorporated, of South Gate, California, Unknown Claimants, and Does 2-50, and  each of them, to surrender possession of all real and personal property of  Peace Lutheran Church to Plaintiff.”   Plaintiff has included a copy of the proposed  amended pleading. (Decl. Leverone, ¶ 2, Ex. A.)    California recognizes “a general rule of…liberal  allowance of amendments…” (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6  Cal.3d 920, 939.) It has also long been recognized that “even if the proposed  legal theory is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the  amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,  motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Kittredge  Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) In light of  great liberality employed when ruling on a motion for leave to amend, the court  will not normally consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading since  grounds for demurrer or motion to strike are premature. Thus, absent prejudice  to the opposing party, courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality  in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up  to and including trial.” (emphasis added.) (Atkinson v. Elk Corp.  (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)    In light of the liberality associated with granting  motions for leave to amend up to and including the time of trial, the Court  finds that PSD should be afforded the opportunity to make the proposed  amendments. Defendants maintain their right to compel discovery, demur, move  for judgment on the pleadings, move to strike, or move for summary judgment.    The  motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.     Motion  for Service by Publication   Legal Standard   If the Court determines that the  plaintiff has made a showing that plaintiff used reasonable diligence to  ascertain the identity and residence of and to serve summons on the persons  named as unknown defendants, the court shall order service by publication  pursuant to Section 415.50 and the provisions of this article. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 763.010, subd. (b).)    Discussion    Plaintiff’s counsel conclusorily states  that Plaintiff and its counsel have used reasonable diligence to identify and  locate all persons Plaintiff reasonably suspects might claim an interest in the  subject property. (Decl. Leverone, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s showing is not sufficient.     The motion for service by publication  is DENIED without prejudice.    Pacific
Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod v. Irene Jense, et
al., Case No. 22NWCV00320

 

Plaintiff
applies ex parte to continue the hearing for its
motion for summary adjudication which is currently scheduled for September 5,
2024.  Plaintiff argues that it filed and
served its motion for summary adjudication on June 27, 2024. Thus, the earliest
the court can hear it is September 12, 2024. With trial scheduled for October
15, 2024, the latest the motion can be heard is September 16.2024.  However, the Court cannot accommodate the
hearing between September 12, 2024 and September 16,
2024.  The ex parte
application is DENIED.  Alternatively,
the motion is ADVANCED from September 5, 2024 to today
and CONTINUED to December 12, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  The parties are not foreclosed from seeking a
trial continuance in Dept. SE-F.  Moving
party to give notice.

   