  Case Number:  22CHCV00565    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV00565

 
Demurrer filed: 7/11/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant MAJCO LLC, dba Big Brand Tire
& Service (erroneously sued as Big Brand Tire and Service Company, Inc.)
(“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Datalink, Inc., a California corporation (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s entire second amended complaint (“SAC”).
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises
out of the alleged breach of two contracts entered into between Plaintiff and
Defendants, wherein Plaintiff was to provide computer networking services to
Moving Defendant, with the assistance of non-moving defendant Cabling Solutions
Group, LLC (“CSG”) as its subcontractor. (SAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants thereafter directly contracted with one another in order to bypass
their contractual obligations to Plaintiff as the middleman, in violation of
contractual provisions prohibiting such conduct. (Id. at ¶ 14.) 
 
On 7/27/22, Plaintiff
filed its original complaint against Defendants. On 6/9/23, Plaintiff filed its
SAC, after the Court sustained two demurrers to its previous complaints. In the
SAC, Plaintiff alleges against Defendants the following causes of action: (1)
Unfair Competition; (2) Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (3)
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and (4) Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets.
 
On 7/11/23, Moving
Defendant filed the instant demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC. On 9/29/23, Plaintiff
filed its opposition. On 10/5/23, Moving Defendant filed its reply.
//
//
//
//
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
Meet-and-Confer 
 
Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on 7/6/23, he attempted
to contact Plaintiff’s attorney by telephone, U.S. mail, and email to discuss
the issues raised in the demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a
resolution. (Decl. of Willian D. Burger, Jr., ¶¶ 4–5.)
Therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
2.     
Legal
Standard 
 
As a general matter, a¿party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including¿that¿“the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In¿a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.¿(2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.¿v.¿Accountants, Inc. Servs.¿(2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) 
 
Here,¿Moving Defendant¿demurs¿to each cause of action
alleged in SAC under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision¿(e),¿arguing that¿Plaintiff fails¿to allege facts sufficient
to¿state¿any of its causes of action against Moving Defendant.
 
3.     
Unfair Competition
 
As a
preliminary matter, the parties dispute whether Plaintiff may allege common law
unfair competition or whether Plaintiff is limited to a cause of action for
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (the “UCL”).
In its ruling on Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC, this Court
granted Plaintiff leave to amend its complaint to add a cause of action for
unfair competition. (5/23/23 Min. Order, p. 10.) As Moving Defendant observes,
the Court’s ruling was based on Plaintiff’s representation that “it could plead
more facts … to add additional causes of action ‘under Business and Professions
Code section 17200 for unfair competition and for inducing a breach of contract
against both Defendants for their conduct.’” (Ibid., quoting Pl.’s Opp.
13:14–16.) Accordingly, the Court agrees with Moving Defendant that Plaintiff’s
added cause of action for Unfair Competition is limited to violations of the
UCL, as set forth its own request for leave to amend.
 
To succeed
on a claim for unfair business practices in violation of the UCL, a plaintiff
must establish that the defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “In
essence, an action based on Business and Professions Code section 17200 to
redress an unlawful business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and
treats these violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as
unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and
subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill
Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A
plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business practice under the UCL must show that
the defendant's conduct is “tethered to an underlying constitutional, statutory
or regulatory provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an
antitrust law or violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’
as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only
requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen
v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “engaged in unfair competition by engaging in
acts including, but not limited to, CSG selling and BBT paying for their
services below the contracted cost agreed to with Datalink in order to destroy
or injure Datalink as a competitor, thus giving an unfair advantage over
Datalink.” (SAC ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants entered into a business conspiracy
to defraud and circumvent Datalink and to tortuously interfere with Datalink’s
contract with the respective Defendant.” (Id. at ¶ 26.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that
Plaintiff “cannot simply restructure a failed breach of contract claim as an
unfair competition claim.” (Dem. 6:24–7:4, citing Berryman v. Merit Property
Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544 “plaintiffs cannot bootstrap a
claim for breach of contract—which, … they are not allowed to bring—onto a UCL
claim.” Id. at 1555.) Here, Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s UCL
cause of action alleges the same conduct as in its failed breach of contract
cause of action. The Court agrees.
 
The Court reiterates
its previous finding that the no-hire and hiring fee provisions in the services
agreement between the parties is void and unenforceable under Business and
Professions Code section 16600 because they “effectively limit the employment
opportunities of nonparties to the contract, including the ‘employees, agents,
representatives, contractors, subcontractors, or vendors’ of each party.” (5/23/23
Min. Order, p. 4; 1/4/23 Min. Order, p. 6.)
 
In doing
so, this Court discussed at length that VL Systems, Inc. v. Unisen, Inc.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 708, applied to the facts of the instant case, rather
than Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, as urged
by Plaintiff. (1/4/23 Min. Order, p. 6.) Here, as Moving Defendant notes,
Plaintiff has once again renewed the same arguments it made in opposing the
previous demurrers to Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action. (Pl.’s
Opp. 4:20–7:2; Def.’s Reply 1:26–2:1.) The Court declines Plaintiff’s
invitation to reconsider its prior analysis on this issue.
 
To the
extent that Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted to “tortuously interfere
with Datalink’s contract with the respective Defendant,” the Court agrees with
Moving Defendant that because this Court has already ruled that the subject
contractual provisions are void and unenforceable, any alleged violations of
those provisions cannot support a cause of action for violation of the UCL.
(SAC ¶ 26; Def.’s
Reply 3:11–15.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to support its first
cause of action against Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the Court sustains
Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action.
 
4.     
Interference with Prospective Business
Advantage
 
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action alleges against all defendants Interference with
Prospective Business Advantage. The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404.) Further, “the alleged interference must have been
wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself. For an act
to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be unlawful, that is, it is
proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Court
previously found that Plaintiff failed to allege any “independently wrongful
act” apart from the alleged interference itself. (5/23/23 Min. Order, p. 6; 1/4/23
Min. Order, p. 8.) Here, Plaintiff has amended its complaint to add the
following language: “Defendants engaged in a conspiracy to defraud Plaintiff
and engage in unfair competition as alleged hereinabove and in violation of
Business and Professions Code Section 17200, et seq., and Civil Code Section
1770.” (SAC ¶ 33.)
 
Moving
Defendant argues that these additional allegations are insufficient to constitute
an “independently wrongful act,” as “Plaintiff cannot state a claim for
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (the UCL), and
therefore it does not constitute a ‘wrongful act.’” (Dem. 8:25–26.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff again argues that it “satisfied this pleading requirement
by alleging the breaches of the two separate agreements and Defendants directly
contracting with each other for the same services covered by the contract
between Datalink and Big Brand Tires.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:15–17.) The Court
reiterates its previous finding that the subject no-hire and hiring fee
provisions are void and unenforceable. (5/23/23 Min. Order, p. 4; 1/4/23 Min.
Order, p. 6.) To the extent that Plaintiff’s second cause of action relies on
an alleged violation of the UCL as the “independently wrongful act,” this
argument fails as, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged
facts to support a cause of action for Unfair Competition under the UCL.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently cured the
defects from its previous complaint, as the additional allegations are
insufficient to constitute an “independently wrongful act.” Accordingly, the
Court sustains Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of
action.  
 
5.     
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Plaintiff’s
third cause of action alleges against Defendants a breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing with respect to the services agreement.
Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that
neither party will do anything to interfere with the other party's right to
receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American Nat'l Fire Ins.
Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature and extent of the
duty depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the
parties' legitimate expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.) “A
breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract … and
breach of a specific provision of the contract is not ... necessary to a claim
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1244.)
 
However, “if
the allegations [of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing]
do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the
same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed
in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous
as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants willfully breached their implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing and engaged in unfair business practices and unfair
competition with Plaintiff when they violated the terms of their respective
separate contracts with each other and directly contracted with each other.”
(SAC ¶ 40.)
 
Moving Defendant
argues that “this is essentially the failed breach of contact claim repackaged
as a tort and, as a matter of law, fails to state a valid cause of action in
tort against Big Brand.” (Dem. 9:20–22.) “The no-hire and hiring fee provisions
that Big Brand allegedly violated when it contracted with CSG are void and
unenforceable. Big Brand therefore did nothing wrong by hiring CSG—it
constituted neither a breach of the contract, nor any wrongful refusal to
discharge contractual responsibilities.” (Id. at 10:9–12.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that it has sufficiently alleged that “Defendants engaged
in conduct to intentionally frustrate Datalink’s rights and benefits under the
respective contracts.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:8–9.) As the Court has previously noted,
the agreement between Plaintiff and Moving Defendant was fully performed by
both parties. (5/23/23 Min. Order, p. 3.) Therefore, any remaining alleged “rights
and benefits” under the agreement appear to derive from the no-hire and hiring
fee provisions that this Court has already deemed void and unenforceable. 
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court again finds the underlying factual allegations relied
upon in Plaintiff’s third of action to be the same as those alleged in its
failed cause of action for breach of contract. Accordingly, the Court sustains
the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.
 
6.     
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
alleges against Defendants Misappropriation of Trade Secrets. “Under the
[California Uniform Trade Secrets Act], a prima facie claim for
misappropriation of trade secrets requires the plaintiff to demonstrate: (1)
the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the defendant acquired, disclosed, or
used the plaintiff’s trade secret through improper means, and (3) the
defendant’s actions damaged the plaintiff.” (Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able
Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665; Civ. Code § 3426.1) 
 
“‘Trade secret’ means information,
including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique,
or process, that: (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from
not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain
economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ.
Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).) “‘Improper means’ includes theft, bribery,
misrepresentation, breach or inducement of a breach of a duty to maintain
secrecy, or espionage through electronic or other means.” (Id. at subd.
(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff has amended its
complaint to allege that it considered each Defendant “as part of its customer
list,” and that information about each Defendant was considered confidential.
(SAC ¶ 47.) Plaintiff
further realleges that “Defendants, have misappropriated, or worked in concert
to misappropriate confidential client and subcontractor information by
improperly directly breaching [the] confidentiality provisions [of the services
agreements] and directly contracting with each other destroying the competitive
advantages which Datalink otherwise enjoyed as a result thereof.” (SAC ¶ 48.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that
Plaintiff “cannot plead that CSG is its confidential customer … As Datalink has
repeatedly acknowledged, CSG was its ‘subcontractor’ that Datalink hired to
perform some cabling work in Big Brand stores.” (Dem. 11:12–14, citing SAC ¶¶
8, 9, 15.) This Court has previously found that “CSG’s identity is not a trade
secret as a matter of law, particularly where its identity as a company that
provides cabling services is not private within its statutory definition.” (5/23/23
Min. Order, p. 8, citing Civ. Code § 3426.1, subd. (d).) To the extent
that Plaintiff reasserts its arguments and legal authorities made in opposition
to the previous demurrer on this cause of action, this Court refers the parties
to its previous ruling sustaining Moving Defendant’s demurrer thereto.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts to support a cause of
action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets. The Court notes that Plaintiff
has failed to amend its complaint to cure the defects set forth in the previous
demurrer. Accordingly, the Court sustains Moving Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action without leave to amend.
 
7.     
Leave to Amend 
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Here,
Moving Defendant argues that since the Court ruled that the subject contractual
provisions were void and unenforceable, “every other attempt by Plaintiff to
state a claim, including in this SAC, has merely been a repackaging of the same
barred breach of contract claims. This Court has granted Plaintiff repeated
opportunities to state a cause of action, and Plaintiff has failed to meet its
burden of articulating any specific way it can cure the defects in its
complaints.” (Dem. 12:22–26.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that it has the
ability to plead more facts pertaining to “reasonableness, unfair competition,
or a wrongful act.” (Pl.’s Opp. 12:18.) However, as Moving Defendant observes,
Plaintiff “fails to provide any explanation as to what allegations could
possibly be added that could cure the deficiencies in that [UCL] cause of
action.” (Def.’s Reply 6:12–13.)
 
The Court
notes that this is the third demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s complaint in
this action and finds that Plaintiff failed to successfully amend its complaint
to cure the defects set forth in the Court’s prior rulings. Based on the
foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.