 Case Number:  22PSCV00369    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Ralf  Weigel v. Terrence Sperry  Motion  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file cross-complaint.  Defendant must file and serve the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days of  the Court’s order and file and proof of service of same.                The Court ORDERS Defendant to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On April 13, 2022, plaintiff Ralf  Weigel (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Terrence Sperry (Defendant)  and Does 1 to 10, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, conversion,  replevin, and declaratory relief. Defendant filed an answer on September 26,  2022.  On November 22, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for leave to file  cross-complaint. The motion is unopposed. On December 12, 2023, Defendant filed  a reply regarding Plaintiff’s non-opposition.  LEGAL  STANDARD (a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against  any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or  her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or  cross-complaint.  (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any  time before the court has set a date for trial.  (c) A party shall obtain leave  of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within  the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave  may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the  action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)  A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject  to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,  mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his  pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during  the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall  grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the  pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who  failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be  liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)  The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal  construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is  imposed on the trial court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the  course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is  demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as  oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient  grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.  (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.  Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.)  DISCUSSION             Defendant seeks leave from the Court  to file a cross-complaint alleging various labor code violations arising out of  his alleged employment with Plaintiff. (Motion, Ex. A.) Defendant contends that  leave to file the proposed cross-complaint should be granted in the interests  of justice and to facilitate a complete determination of the controversy  between the parties in a single action. Defendant indicates that he was not  represented by counsel at the time he filed his answer to the complaint, so he was  unaware of his claims against Plaintiff and the timing requirements for filing  a cross-complaint. Defendant contends he is acting in good faith here, and that  there will be no prejudice to the parties, as there is no trial currently  scheduled. Defendant also indicates that he attempted to obtain a stipulation  from Plaintiff to permit the filing of the proposed cross-complaint, but to no  avail. (Boylston Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B.) The Court agrees with Defendant.              The Court finds that Defendant is acting in good faith  here, as he was not represented at the time he filed his answer to the complaint  and likely did not understand his potential claims or the timing requirements  for filing a cross-complaint. Also, no trial date has been set, so there does  not appear to be any prejudice to the parties. The Court further construes  Plaintiff’s lack of opposition as a tacit admission that Defendant’s motion is  meritorious. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404,  418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ.  Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) Finally, the liberal policy to  avoid forfeitures of causes of action and a determination of the total  controversy supports granting Defendant’s motion. (Silver Organizations Ltd.,  supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at pp. 98–99; City of Hanford v. Superior  Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 580, 587.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file cross-complaint.  Defendant must file and serve the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days of  the Court’s order and file and proof of service of same.                The Court ORDERS Defendant to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.