 Case Number:  24VECV01800    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Amir Baher, 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
John Doe, et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    24VECV01800                  107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
Demurrer
  with Motion to Strike  



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
 
Sustain with leave to
amend.
¿ 
I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On or about May 1, 2022, Plaintiff Amir Baher (“Plaintiff”)
was crossing an intersection when he was struck by a vehicle driven by John
Doe. (Complaint p. 6.) John Doe fled the scene. (Complaint p. 6.) On April 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against John Doe and Does 1 to 50, alleging
four causes of action for motor vehicle, general negligence, violation of
Vehicle Code 20001(a) – misdemeanor hit and run, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress. (Complaint pp. 5-8.)
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint,
substituting the true name of Defendant John Doe as Eugenia Berrio
(“Defendant”).
 
On October 16, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer with motion
to strike. On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to the demurrer and
motion to strike. On November 8, 2024, Defendant filed replies.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS
 
a.     Timeliness
“A
person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within
30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the
complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40(a).) 
 
Defendant submits an exhibit showing the parties agreed to
extend the time to file a responsive pleading to October 16, 2024. (Ex. C; Boyd
Declaration ¶
7.) Defendant filed the
demurrer with motion to strike on October 16, 2024. 
 
This court finds that the demurrer with motion to strike was
timely filed. 
b.     Meet and Confer
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the
filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in
the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)
 
Defendant’s counsel submits a declaration stating
they called Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss the deficiencies in the complaint
and sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter detailing the
deficiencies in the complaint. (Boyd Declaration ¶ 4.)
Defendant’s counsel states the parties did not reach an agreement. (Boyd
Declaration ¶ 8.)
 
This court finds that
Defendant satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD¿ 
¿¿¿ 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint ordinarily
is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)
 
A party may demur to a complaint because the
complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).) A party
may also demur because “[t]he pleading is uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
“’[U]ncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
 
Demurrer
for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can be used for
clarification. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set forth in
his complaint the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co.
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s four causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action and are uncertain. (Notice of Demurrer pp. 1-2.) 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition
states he agreed to withdraw his third and fourth causes of action and the
punitive damages request.  (Opposition to
Demurrer p. 5.) Accordingly, this court only considers Defendant’s arguments
relating to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action.
 
A.   
Statute
of Limitations
 
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations because
Plaintiff failed to timely substitute Defendant into the lawsuit. (Demurrer p.
7.) Defendant further argues “[t]he Complaint does not allege sufficient
facts demonstrating why Plaintiff was ignorant of [Defendant’s] identity” and
“the proposed DOE amendment contains no facts to support the substitution of
Defendant, e.g., including a statement from Plaintiff explaining the precise
date Plaintiff or Plaintiff[‘s] Counsel learned of Defendant’s true identity or
any explanation of whether and why her identity could not have been learned
before the doe amendment was filed.” (Demurrer p. 7.)
 
Actions involving
injuries to an individual “caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another”
are governed by a two-year statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.)
 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of
the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint . . .  and such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the
pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 474.) “Section 474 allows a plaintiff who is ignorant of
a defendant's identity to commence suit—before the statute of limitations
runs—by using a fictitious name for that defendant and then amending her complaint
when the defendant's true name is discovered.” (Hahn v. New York Air Brake
LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 895, 898.) “Section 474 contains two
mandatory requirements, each of which must be met before the benefits of the
statute may be claimed by a plaintiff.” (Stephens v. Berry (1967) 249
Cal.App.2d 474, 477.) “The first requirement is that of ignorance of the true name
of the defendant.” (Id.) “The second requirement of section 474 is that a
plaintiff make a clear statement in his pleading that he is ignorant of the
true name of the defendant sued by a fictitious name.” (Id.)
 
 “If the statute's
requirements are satisfied, the amendment relates back and the substituted
defendant is considered to have been a party from the action's start.” (Hahn
v. New York Air Brake LLC, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 898.) “[W]here an
amendment is sought after the statute of limitations has run, the amended
complaint will be deemed filed as of the date of the original complaint
provided recovery is sought in both pleadings on the same general set of
facts.” (Austin v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d
596, 600.) Section 474 does not identify a “specific procedure” and courts have
held that a defendant may employ “a motion for dismissal, or for summary
judgment or a demurrer” to challenge a plaintiff’s failure to comply with
section 474. (See Maier Brewing Co. v. Flora Crane Service, Inc. (1969)
270 Cal.App.2d 873, 875.) 
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges the accident
occurred on May 1, 2022. (Complaint p. 6.) Plaintiff filed the complaint on
April 19, 2024. Plaintiff filed the amendment substituting Defendant for John
Doe on August 6, 2024. Accordingly, the issue is whether Plaintiff satisfied
section 474’s requirements, such that the amendment relates back to the
complaint.
 
Plaintiff’s amendment substituted Defendant’s name
for John Doe’s name in the original complaint but added no new facts.
(Amendment to Complaint; Complaint.) Thus, recovery is sought in both pleadings
on the same general set of facts.
 
The next issue is whether Plaintiff satisfied
section 474’s requirements and properly substituted Defendant for John Doe. 
 
Citing Victor
Woo v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176, Ingram v. Superior
Court (1979) 98 Cal.App.3d 483, 490-492, and A.N. v. County of Los
Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1068, Defendant argues “[t]he general
rule in California is that the addition of a new defendant does not relate back
to the date of filing of the original complaint and the statute of limitations
is applied as of the date of the amendment” and “the proposed DOE amendment
contains no facts to support the substitution of Defendant.” (Demurrer p. 7.) 
 
In Woo v. Superior Court, supra, 75 Cal.App.4th
at p. 176, “[t]he amended complaint add[ed a defendant] as a defendant but
d[id] not identify him as a substitute for a previously named fictitious
defendant.” In Ingram v. Superior Court, supra, 98 Cal.App.3d at p. 490,
“[t]he complaint charge[d] that [a defendant’s] negligence caused petitioner’s
injuries” but did “not designate [the defendant] or his estate as a defendant,
entirely omitting them from the caption where defendants are listed.” Further,
the Court stated that “the petitioner did not attempt to substitute the [defendant]
for one of the Does, nor does it appear under the circumstances that he would
have been entitled to do so[.]” (Id. at p. 491.) 
 
Finally, in A.N. v. County of Los Angeles, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at p. 1060, less than a month before trial, the plaintiff filed and
served four Doe amendments and served two previously filed Doe amendments. “The individual
defendants filed a ‘motion to quash’ the Doe amendments on the ground that [the
plaintiff] had unreasonably delayed in filing and serving the amendments.”  (Id.) The trial court granted the
motion and the Court of Appeal affirmed. (Id.) The Court stated that
“section 474 includes an implicit requirement that a plaintiff may not
‘unreasonably delay’ his or her filing of a Doe amendment after learning a
defendant’s identity[,]” “a defendant named in an action by a Doe amendment
under section 474 may challenge the amendment by way of an evidence-based
motion, which argues that the plaintiff ‘unreasonabl[y] delayed’ his or her
filing of the challenged amendment” and “’unreasonable delay’ . . . includes a
prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that he or she
would suffer prejudice from plaintiff’s delay in filing the Doe amendment.” (Id.
at pp. 1066-1067.) The Court found these elements were satisfied in A.N.
because there was no reasonable explanation for plaintiff’s two-year delay
in filing and serving the Doe amendments, and the defendants were prejudiced
because they “were brought into the case less than one month before the case was sent
to begin trial, and it does not require speculation to recognize that a
party who is drawn into litigation on the eve of trial will face difficulties
in preparing a defense in such short order.” (Id. at 1068.)
 
Plaintiff filed an amendment substituting Defendant
for John Doe. Thus, Woo and Ingram do not apply here because
those cases involved situations where the parties did not identify the added
defendant as a substitute for a previously named fictious defendant. Further,
unlike A.N., where the defendants were substituted in less than a month
before trial, no trial has been set here. Accordingly, Defendant has not been
prejudiced by the delay and it is unnecessary for this court to determine
whether Plaintiff unreasonably delayed filing his amendment.
 
Defendant also argues “[t]he Complaint does not allege
sufficient facts demonstrating why Plaintiff was ignorant of [Defendant’s]
identity.” (Demurrer p. 7.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p.
994.) Plaintiff alleges in the complaint that “[t]he true names
of defendants sued as Does are unknown to plaintiff.” (Complaint p. 2.)  Plaintiff also alleges
that John Doe “immediately fled the scene after the collision.” (Complaint p.
6.) Nothing in the complaint indicates Plaintiff knew Defendant’s
identity when the complaint was filed. Thus, Plaintiff’s complaint sufficiently
alleges that Plaintiff was ignorant of Defendant’s identity when the complaint
was filed.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s causes of action are not
barred by the statute of limitations.
                                                                                                                                  
B.   
Causes
of Action
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint
fails to state a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence because the “causes of action are factually vague and ambiguous[.]”
(Demurrer p. 8.)
The elements of a negligence action are:
(1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such legal duty; and (3) the
breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Ladd v.
County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-918.) 
Plaintiff does not specifically allege
that Defendant John Doe owed Plaintiff a legal duty to use due care. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant John Doe
breached a duty by alleging Defendant John Doe “operated his vehicle . . . and
entered the intersection without caution and in such an unsafe manner that it
violently collided into Plaintiff’s person.” (Complaint p. 6.) Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendant John Doe “negligently, carelessly, unskillfully, unlawfully,
tortuously, wrongfully, maliciously, willfully, oppressively, and despicably
entrusted, managed, maintained, operated, controlled and drove said vehicle.”
(Complaint p. 6.) 
Finally,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant John Doe’s breach was a proximate and legal cause
of Plaintiff’s resulting injury by alleging, that, “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of said acts and omissions on the part of the Defendants and each of
them, Plaintiff was hurt, and physically injured, sustaining medical bills,
loss of earnings/earnings capacity, pain, suffering, loss of enjoyment of life
and other damages, as well as substantial property damage, loss of use, towing,
storage and other associated charges and damages, and will continue to sustain
such damages in the future.” (Complaint p. 6.)
Finally,
Plaintiff’s amendment identified Defendant as the substitute for the
complaint’s fictitious name, John Doe.
Because
Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege that Defendant owed Plaintiff a legal
duty to use care, this court sustains the demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first and
second causes of action.
C.   
Uncertainty
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action for negligence and motor vehicle
negligence are uncertain. (Notice of Motion p. 2.) Defendant
further argues the complaint is insufficient because “[i]t is unclear from the
vague allegations if either [Defendant] or her vehicle were involved in the
subject motor vehicle accident, as the Complaint alleges that the driver is a
male operating ‘his’ vehicle.” (Demurrer p. 8.) 
 
Demurrer
for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can be used for
clarification. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set forth in
his complaint the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co.
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)
 
This
court disagrees with Defendant that the complaint is uncertain because it
identifies the operator of the vehicle as a male, while Defendant is a woman.
(Demurrer p. 8; Reply to Opposition to Demurrer p. 4.) However, the complaint
alleges that “Defendant operated his vehicle at or near Victory Blvd. and
Balboa Blvd. and entered the intersection without caution and in such an unsafe
manner that it violently collided into Plaintiff's person” and “Defendant JOHN
DOE immediately fled the scene after the collision.” (Complaint p. 6.) This
paragraph could be interpreted in one of two ways. First, it could be
interpreted as alleging one of the defendants was operating the vehicle, and
Defendant was merely a passenger or bystander who fled after the collision. Or
it could be interpreted as alleging the Defendant was operating the vehicle and
Defendant fled after the collision. This court finds that the complaint is
uncertain because it does not clearly allege which defendant was operating the
vehicle when it struck Plaintiff or whether it was the person now identified as
Defendant. (Complaint p. 6.)
 
V.             
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “If there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
amend the complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally
allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it
is incapable of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007)
42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a
complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to
amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 297, 303-304.)¿ 
 
This court finds that there is a reasonable possibility
Plaintiff can successfully amend the complaint and grants Plaintiff leave to
amend.
 
VI.          
MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Defendant seeks an order
striking portions of Plaintiff’s complaint. (Motion to Strike p. 4.) This court
has sustained the demurrer and granted Plaintiff leave to amend. Accordingly,
the motion to strike is moot.
 
VII.        
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing
reasons, this court sustains the demurrer and grants Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
Dated:                          November 18, 2024                                         _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court