  Case Number:  23VECV02397    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Zeferino
  Juarez Vazquez,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Uber
  Technologies, Inc., et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECV02397                             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: Denied.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On or about
June 2, 2021, Plaintiff Zeferino Juarez Vazquez (“Plaintiff”) was riding a
bicycle when they were hit by a vehicle driven by Defendants Caeros O. Durias
and Does 1 through 10. (Complaint ¶¶ 20-21, 24.) Defendants PV Holding Corp.
and Does 61 through 70 were the owners, lessors, and/or lessees of the vehicle.
(Complaint ¶ 13.) At the time of the incident, Defendants Caeros O. Durias and
Does 1 through 10 were providing services for Defendants Uber Technologies,
Inc., Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, Raiser-PA, LLC, and Does 11
through 60. (Complaint ¶ 14.) 
 
On June 1,
2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Raiser, LLC, Raiser-CA, LLC, Raiser-DC, LLC, Raiser-PA, LLC, Caeros O. Durias,
PV Holding Corp., and Does 1 to 70, alleging causes of action for
negligence/negligence per se, negligence (hiring, training, supervision and
retention) and negligent entrustment.
 
On October
23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel (“Counsel”) filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel (the “Motion”). No opposition has been filed.
 
II.            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
An attorney in an action may be
changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 284(2).) 
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362 requires:
 
1.     Notice of motion and motion to be
directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051));
 
2.     A declaration stating in general
terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney client
relationship, why a motion under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on
the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-052)); 
 
3.     Service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and all other parties who
have appeared in the case, and
 
4.     The proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-053)).
 
The motion should be denied if it
will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause injustice. (Mandell v.
Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.) “The determination whether to
grant or deny an attorney’s motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.” (Lempert v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) An attorney is not limited to
withdrawing from a case for cause and may withdraw when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the client. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 554, 559.)
 
III.          
DISCUSSION
 
(A) Notice—Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362(a)
 
“A notice of motion and motion to
be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be
directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a).)
 
The
Motion complies with this requirement.
 
(B) Declaration—Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(c)
 
“The motion to be relieved as
counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c).)
 
The Motion complies with this
requirement by explaining on Form MC-052 that “There has been a complete
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. The client has repeatedly failed
to comply with essential litigation requirements, including appearing for
scheduled depositions and meeting court deadlines, despite numerous attempts to
communicate and coordinate compliance. The client has also been unresponsive to
communications and requests for necessary information and cooperation.
Furthermore, the client has made explicit threats to report counsel to the
State Bar, creating a situation where continued representation would be
unethical and unworkable, impairing counsel's ability to effectively advocate
on the client's behalf. Therefore, withdrawal is necessary to preserve
counsel’s ethical obligations and avoid prejudice to the client.”
 
(C) Service—Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362(d); Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, Rule 4.35 
 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the
proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who have
appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) 
 
“If the notice is served on the
client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be
accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:
 
1.     The service address is the current
residence or business address of the client; or
 
2.     The service address is the last
known residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been
unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do
so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.”
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1).)
 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was
confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely
demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last known address and
was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message was received is not,
by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the
service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d).) 
 
“When an attorney files a motion to
withdraw as attorney of record for a fiduciary, service must be made by
citation. The citation must be served in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure sections 415.10 or 415.30. If the fiduciary resides outside of
California, service may also be made in the manner provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 415.40.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 4.35.)
 
The Motion does not comply with
this requirement. Counsel submits a proof of service showing Plaintiff was
served by mail with the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
proposed order. (Proof of Service by Mail filed 10/23/24.) Counsel also submits
a declaration stating Counsel confirmed by telephone and conversation, within
the past thirty days, that the address is current. (Declaration p. 1.) However,
Rule 3.1362(d) requires the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order to be served on Counsel’s client “and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) Counsel’s
submitted proof of service and declaration do not show the documents were
served on any parties other than Plaintiff.
(D) Proposed Order—Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362(e)
 
“The proposed order relieving
counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the
court with the moving papers. The order must specify all hearing dates
scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known.
If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify
the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.
The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until
proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed
with the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)
 
The Motion complies with this
requirement.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this
court denies the motion.
 
 
 
Dated:                          November 18, 2024                                         _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court