 Case Number:  21CMCV00214    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  A 21CMCV00214
 Tabitha Patton v. Romona King, et al.
Tuesday,
 October 23, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT, ROMONA KING’S, ANSWER WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
verified first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges that Defendant, Romona King (“King”),
forged a quitclaim deed signed by Plaintiff purporting to transfer Plaintiff’s
50 percent interest in real property to Defendant, leaving Defendant as the
sole owner of the property. Plaintiff alleges claims for (1) forgery, (2)
cancellation of instrument, (3) quiet title, (4) slander of title, (5)
fraudulent concealment, (6) theft, (7) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (8) declaratory and injunctive relief.
      Defendant
answered the complaint on April 7, 2022. On September 6, 2023, Defendant filed
a First Amended Verified Answer with leave of court. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
moves to strike the amended answer. The Court’s order permitting Defendant
leave to file the amended answer also required Defendant to attach a
declaration of Leo King and an agreement between Leo King and Defendant with
respect to the real property. Defendant failed to attach the documents as
stipulated. Plaintiff met and conferred with Defendant prior to the hearing.
      In
opposition, defense counsel states he sent his client the verification form to
be attached to the first amended answer after the parties agreed that Defendant
could file the amended pleading, and Defense counsel agreed that service by email
would be deemed personal service. Defendant served Plaintiff with the Declaration
of Leo King as well as a copy of the marital separation agreement. Plaintiff has
not suffered any prejudice. Defendant should not be penalized because she
doesn’t have email, and documents must be sent by regular mail. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The
court may, upon motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems
proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b). Grounds for a motion to
strike are limited to matters that appear on the face of the complaint or on any matter of which the court shall
or may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437).
IV.   
DISCUSSION
      On
August 22, 2023, the parties appeared for Plaintiff’s ex parte application to
continue trial  and for an order that
email service on defense counsel would be deemed personal service. (Plaintiff’s
RJN[1],
Exhibit A.) The Court’s order also reflects that the parties agreed to include
the Leo King declaration and the divorce settlement agreement as exhibits to
the First Amended Verified Answer. When the exhibits are attached, the parties
agreed to waive Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Amend the Answer scheduled for
August 29, 2023. (Id.) 
      The
First Amended Verified Answer does not comply with the parties’ stipulation as
memorialized in the Court’s August 22, 2023, order. Pursuant to the parties’
agreement, the declaration and marital resolution agreement were to be attached
to the First Amended Verified Answer before filing. 
      Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to strike the First Amended Verified Answer. Within
10 court days, Defendant is ordered to file a Second Amended Verified Answer
with the exhibits attached as contemplated by the parties.  
      
 
       
       
 


