 Case Number:  23CMCV00700    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  A 23CMCV00700
 Evelin Quintero v. Wily Oris Barrios, etc., et al.
Tuesday,
 October 24, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] GRANTING
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT TO INCLUDE
ADDITIONAL CAUSES OF ACTION AGAINST NAMED DEFENDANTS 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      This action
arises from injuries sustained by Plaintiff due to the conditions of the
residential real property owned by Defendants and leased to Plaintiff.
Plaintiff alleges 16 causes of action for breach of implied warranty of
habitability and related claims. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests leave to add a claim for unlawful lockout, denial of a pre-move out inspection,
bad faith retention of deposit, unlawful entry, and assault and battery.
Plaintiff argues that Defendants engaged in additional acts of misconduct after
the filing of the complaint. The new claims are based on the same set of facts.
Defendants will not suffer any prejudice. 
      Defendant,
Wiley Barrios, opposes the motion on grounds Plaintiff did not state when the
new information was discovered or why the new claims are necessary and proper. The
proposed amendment contradicts omissions made in the original pleadings. The
new claims depend on the premise that Defendant owned the property when it is
undisputed by recorded documents that Defendant is not the owner. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff states that the new facts did not arise until July 2023 and
could not be included in the May 2023 complaint.  
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Leave to amend is permitted at the court’s
discretion upon any terms that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473 subd. (a)(1)). The statute is liberally construed to permit amendment
of the pleadings “unless an attempt is made to present an entirely different
set of facts by way of the amendment.” (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760.) 
      If
the motion is timely made, and the granting of the motion will not result in
prejudice to the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend. (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Where denial of the motion will result in a party
being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action, “it is not
only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Id.) Amendments are permitted
up to the date of trial or during trial where no prejudice is shown to the
adverse party. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
      Defendant
has not established that the motion is defective. The proposed new claims arose
after the date the complaint was filed. Whether the claims are viable or
contradicts allegations of the original complaint are not issues to be
determined at this stage. Defendant will have an opportunity to demurrer to challenge
the new claims. Ultimately, Defendant did not show any prejudice resulting from
an order allowing leave to amend. The trial date has not been set. 
      Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve the
amended complaint forthwith. 
 
 