 Case Number:  22CMCV00294    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  A 22CMCV00294
 Briana Garcia v. General Motors, LLC
Tuesday,
 October 24, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING
 THE HEARING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION ATTENANDANCE OF A
PERSON MOST QUALIFIED AND CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS OF DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS;
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
            The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
bought a vehicle made and distributed by Defendant. The vehicle suffered from
widespread defects that Defendant failed to repair within a reasonable number
of attempts in violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
requests an order to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified
(“PMQ”) to testify on the topics identified in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition
served on August 16, 2023. Plaintiff requested four matters for examination and
six categories of document requests. Defendant made boilerplate objections, refused
to produce a witness, and failed to appear at the August 30, 2023, deposition. Defendant
refuses to produce a witness. The Court should impose sanctions. 
      In
opposition, Defendant states it agreed to produce a witness responsive to two categories
relevant to this case and subject to objections based on relevance. Plaintiff
failed to properly meet and confer regarding Defendant’s timely objections. 
      Plaintiff
argues in reply that Plaintiff has continued to meet and confer with Defendant
ignores Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer and has failed to appear at two
properly noticed depositions. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      This Court has observed a dramatic increase
in motions to compel further responses to document requests as well as motions
to compel defendant car manufacturers to produce a person most qualified
(“PMQ”) for deposition in actions for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“Act”). This Court has heard numerous discovery motions involving
General Motors’ failure to respond to a document request or relating to General
Motors’ refusal to produce a PMQ except as limited by Defendant. The Court has
previously articulated its position regarding the discovery issues raised in
the following cases involving General Motors: 



21CMCV00174


Nicolas Perez




21CMCV00285


Augusto Barco-Robledo




22CMCV00224


Zachary Jay Woody, II




22CMCV00171


Lizandro Gonzalez




22CMCV00569


Marylyn Yvette Jones




22CMCV00259


Juana Bautista Rodriguez




22CMCV00238


Christopher Robinson




22CMCV00060


Anselma Olmedo De
  Ceja




22CMCV00278


Pedro Mauricio
  Mendoza




23CMCV00631


Jose Lemus



 
      The
parties’ meet and confer efforts do not appear to be made in good faith considering
the Court’s numerous rulings addressing each of the objections asserted and the
discoverability of certain topics typical of lemon law cases. With the
assistance of this Court’s prior rulings, the parties can easily resolve the
repetitive issues on these discovery motions. Discovery is “intended to operate
with a minimum of judicial intervention,” and a “central precept” of the Civil
Discovery Act is that discovery be self-executing. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 402.)  
      This
motion raises the same issues with respect to the discoverability of
information relevant to Plaintiff’s claims under the Act. The parties are well
versed on the Court’s position on these same issues. Defendant repeatedly and
improperly fails to serve a privilege log, maintains objections without any
supporting evidence, unilaterally limits the scope of inquiry to Plaintiff’s
vehicle although the Court has previously discussed the discoverability of
“other vehicle evidence.” Defendant repeatedly contends that Plaintiff is not
entitled to the same or substantially the same documents or deposition
testimony that have been established as relevant and discoverable. This conduct
unnecessarily burdens the Court and Plaintiff.
      California
trial courts have expansive authority to employ whatever procedures they see
fit, so long as they do not violate any statutory or legislative guidance.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 187.) In the discovery context, the Court has “broad
discretion in controlling the course of discovery and in making the various
decisions necessitated by discovery proceedings.” (Obregon v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) Additionally, the Legislature “has granted
the power to every court to provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings
before it.” (Hernandez v. FCA US LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 329, 338.) 
      Accordingly,
the Court orders both counsel to meet and confer with this Court’s prior
rulings in mind.  If the parties are
unable to resolve all their issues prior to the continued hearing on the
motion, they must file a joint statement of items that remain in dispute. The
joint statement must list each category of inquiry remaining in dispute,
Defendant’s response and/or objection, and each party’s statement for why
Defendant should or should not produce a PMQ on that category of inquiry.  With respect to the document request, the
parties are ordered to file a joint statement of each item remaining in dispute,
Defendant’s response, and why the document should or should not be produced. 
      In
addition, the parties are ordered to comply with the Court’s “Addendum to Case
Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) regarding
Discovery.”  The Clerk is ordered to
serve this order on the parties.   
      If the
parties resolve their issues, the moving party must take the motion off
calendar using the online reservation system. 
If they are unable to resolve their issues, they must also file short
(no more than five pages) briefs and declarations detailing their efforts to
meet and confer.  IV.
CONCLUSION       Based
on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on this motion to November
 15, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Any
further briefings discussed above shall be filed five court days before the
continued hearing. The Court will consider the Plaintiff’s request for
imposition of monetary sanctions at the next hearing if necessary.

 
 
       
       