 Case Number:  23TRCV04158    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RYAN
  MICHAEL NELSON, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04158




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
FCA
  US LLC, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July
30, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant
FCA US LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Ryan Michael Nelson
Motion
to Disqualify Plaintiff’s Counsel and Firm
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
            On December 13, 2023, Ryan Michael
Nelson filed a complaint against FCA US LLC for violations of Song-Beverly Act.  Plaintiff allege that on October 18, 2021, he
purchased a 2021 RAM 1500 Big Horn and that in June 2023, with 29,926 miles,
plaintiff towed the vehicle to a repair facility because of a catastrophic
engine failure caused by its defective high pressure fuel pump.  The service technician discovered intrusion
of metal shavings into the fuel system components.
            On January 22, 2024, defendant filed
an answer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP §128(a)(5), one of the
court’s powers is to control the conduct of its ministerial officers and of all
other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it in
furtherance of justice.  That power
includes disqualifying an attorney.  “The
issue of disqualification ‘ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’
right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of
professional responsibility.  The
paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of public trust in the
scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.  The recognized and important right to counsel
of one’s choosing must yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity
of our judicial process.’”  Metro-Goldwyn
Mayer v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal. App. 4th 1832, 1838.    
In exercising its discretion to
disqualify an attorney, the court is required to make a reasoned judgment which
complies with the legal principles and policies applicable to the issue at
hand.  Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav.
& Loan (1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 109, 113.  
“Where . . . a motion for
disqualification is based on an asserted breach of confidentiality or conflict
of interest, the trial court must cautiously balance the competing
interests.”  Med-Trans Corp. v. City
of Cal. City (2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 655, 663.  “’The court must weigh the combined effect of
a party’s right to counsel of choice, an attorney’s interest in representing a
client, the financial burden on a client of replacing disqualified counsel and
any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification proceeding against the
fundamental principle that the fair resolution of disputes within our adversary
system requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel
unencumbered by conflicts of interest.’” 
Id. at 663-64 (citation omitted).
Under Rule 1.9, “(a) A lawyer who
has formerly represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent
another person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that
person's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client
unless the former client gives informed written consent.
(b) A lawyer shall not knowingly
represent a person in the same or a substantially related matter in which a
firm with which the lawyer formerly was associated had previously represented a
client (1) whose interests are materially adverse to that person; and (2) about
whom the lawyer had acquired information protected by Business and Professions
Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rules 1.6 and 1.9(c) that is material to
the matter; unless the former client gives informed written consent.
(c) A lawyer who has formerly
represented a client in a matter or whose present or former firm has formerly
represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter:  (1) use information protected by Business and
Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 acquired by virtue
of the representation of the former client to the disadvantage of the former
client except as these rules or the State Bar Act would permit with respect to
a current client, or when the information has become generally known; or (2)
reveal information protected by Business and Professions Code section 6068,
subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 acquired by virtue of the representation of the
former client except as these rules or the State Bar Act permit with respect to
a current client.”
“‘[A]ttorney disqualification can
be impliedly waived by failing to bring the motion in a timely manner.’”  Ontiveros v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal.
App. 4th 686, 701 (citation omitted).   “However, to result in a waiver, the ‘delay
[and] . . . the prejudice to the opponent must be extreme.’  Factors relevant to the reasonableness of a
delay include the ‘stage of litigation at which the disqualification motion is
made’ and the complexity of the case.  Delay
can also be ‘an indication that the alleged breach of confidentiality was not
seen as serious or substantial by the moving party,’ and can suggest ‘the
possibility that the party brought the motion as a tactical device to delay
litigation.’  ‘If the opposing party
makes a prima facie showing of extreme delay and prejudice, the burden then
shifts to the moving party to justify the delay.’”  Id. (citations omitted).    
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §128 and Rules of Professional Conduct 1.9 and 1.10, defendant FCA US
LLC requests that the Court disqualify plaintiff’s counsel Logan Hensley and
The Lemon Daddy aka Drake Law from continuing to represent plaintiff.
            Defendant
contends that on December 19, 2022, attorney Hensley began working for
RoseWaldorf LLP, and that over the next one and a half years, Hensley defended
FCA US on numerous claims filed under the Song-Beverly Act.  On January 25, 2023, Hensley executed a
Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement with FCA US, which states in part
that he agreed to “not use any of the information described [in the agreement]
to assist in opposing FCA US in litigation for a period of not less than 18
months after leaving the employ of [RoseWaldorf LLP] . . . .”  Defendant asserts that Hensley billed 672.8
hours defending FCA US and worked on 564 different FCA US matters.  Defendant notes that the present claim was
filed on December 18, 2023, while Hensley was employed by RoseWaldorf LLP and
while he was currently representing FCA US. 
On April 30, 2024, Hensley provided notice that he was leaving the firm
and his final day at RoseWaldorf was May 10, 2024.  Defendant states that on information and
belief, Hensley’s employment with Drake Law started no later than May 16,
2024.  Defendant argues that there is a
“clear conflict of interest and violation of Hensley’s ethical duties to FCA
US.”  Defendant asserts that throughout
the course of his employment with RoseWaldorf, he personally evaluated claims
on behalf of FCA US and was involved in strategy decisions on FCA US’s defense
to such claims; he was involved with direct client contact regarding FCA US’s
defenses and strategies of various cases. 
Hensley also “received extensive and almost constant training regarding
FCA US’s litigation strategies and the manner in which those litigation
strategies were developed and implemented across all cases.”  Defendant also contend that underlying
Hensley’s ability to draft objections and responses to discovery on behalf of
FCA US was his extensive knowledge of FCA US. 
He was privy to and responsible for maintaining privileged and
confidential information.  Moreover,
defendant argues, Hensley’s disqualification should be imputed to the law firm,
which defendant asserts consists of four attorneys, as there has been no
attempt to screen Hensley from participation in any of the matters and there is
a central email address.  When attorneys
practice together in a firm and presumptively share access to privileged and
confidential matters, the disqualification of one attorney extends vicariously
to the entire firm, citing to (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal. 4th
275, 283.  Also, defendant contends,
Hensley was “not upfront with RoseWaldorf during his departure, and he
purposefully concealed his intent to join a firm currently suing FCA US” and
“waited almost one month after leaving RoseWaldorf to update his bar profile
and led RoseWaldorf to believe he did not know where he was going upon his
departure.”  See Brian Yasuzawa decl.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that RoseWaldorf failed to meet the high burden of
making a showing that Hensley ever received confidential information material
to the herein case, or that any substantial relationship exists between the
matters Hensley worked on at RoseWaldorf and the herein case.  Hensley states in his declaration that his
work for FCA consisted almost entirely of templated drafts, performing
stand-ins for appearances, and zero direct communication with FCA regarding
substantive matters or litigation strategy. 
He states that he “simply did not perform substantive work for
FCA.”  He also states that during his
time at RoseWaldorf, he never worked on, was involved with, or even heard of
the “prior matter,” which is the herein case. 
He further asserts that he was never apprised of anything relating to
the instant matter, other than this motion. 
He also declares that he never received or took part in any training
regarding FCA’s litigation strategies. 
He was never tasked with substantively responding to discovery
requests.  He attended three or four
vehicle inspections in order to fill in for the attorneys actually assigned to
the cases and did not perform any substantive work.  As for his work at the Drake Law firm, he
states that he is assigned to handle sixty-four cases, and none of them are
against FCA US.  Logan Hensley decl.  Further, plaintiff contends, the issue is now
moot as Hensley has been properly and timely screened from all matters against
FCA US.  Clarence Serrano decl.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, no conflict can
be imputed to the Drake Law Firm as they have complied with California Rule of
Professional Conduct 1.10(a)(2).  Also,
plaintiff argues, plaintiff’s right to choose his own counsel prevails over any
appearance of impropriety.
            In
reply, defendant disputes that Hensley did not receive confidential information
while at RoseWaldorf and that he was a mere “appearance” attorney.  Defendant further argues that Hensley has not
been properly screened and that Drake Law is not in compliance with Rule
1.10.  Defendant also contends that the
“instant matter is not substantially related—it is the same matter” and that “even
if it were another matter, the matters are substantially related as the same
defenses and strategies during the time” Hensley represented FCA US “are being
utilized now.”
            The
Court rules as follows:  Before a former
client can disqualify an attorney and its firm under a theory of successive
representation, “the former client must show that the subjects of the
successive representations are substantially related.”  Khani v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 215
Cal. App. 4th 916, 920 (citation omitted).  “[D]isqualification will depend upon the
strength of the similarities between the legal problem involved in the former
representation and the legal problem involved in the current representation.”  Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.
(2003) 111 Cal. App. 4th 698, 709.  “[E]ven
if the issues are similar, there must be some basis to conclude that an
attorney . . . was privy to confidential information.”  Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2006) 143 Cal. App. 4th 50, 68. 

This case
is somewhat similar to Khani, supra. 
In Khani, plaintiff’s counsel, Payam Shahian initiated a lemon
law action against Ford Motor Company and its dealership for defects in a 2008
Lincoln Navigator.  Shahian worked for
Ford’s defense counsel between June 2004 and July 2007.  Ford moved to disqualify Shahian and his law
firm.  The trial court granted the
motion. The Second District Court of Appeal reversed.  The court explained that the evidence “does
not establish that any information to which Shahian was exposed during his
representation of Ford would be material to his representation of Khani in this
case.”  Id. at 922.  Further, the court determined that Ford
failed to establish that any confidential information that Shahian learned
while defending Ford would be at issue.
Such is
the case here.  Defendant has not shown
that the allegedly defective RAM
1500 Big Horn nor its repair history was
the subject of any lawsuit in which Hensley represented FCA US, although the
case had been filed while Hensley was at his prior firm.  Hensley states that he never worked on the
herein case or was assigned that case while at his prior firm, and that he has
not been assigned any FCA US cases while at his new firm.  In lemon law actions, each vehicle and
consumer experience is unique, with its own defects and repair history,
different dealerships and repair facilities. The Khani court held that
the trial court abused its discretion in concluding that the prior cases were
substantially related to the current case “just because they involved claims
under the same statute” and that the trial court also “incorrectly assumed that
Shahian's exposure to playbook information in prior lemon law cases was
sufficient to disqualify him in this case without any showing of its
materiality.”  Further, the evidence
indicates that Hensley has not been assigned any FCA US cases at his new firm
and that there are procedures in place to keep him screened from the FCA US
cases.
            The
motion is thus DENIED.
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.