 Case Number:  24TRCV00323    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LAUREANO
  AZURDIA CAMEY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00323




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF GARDENA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 30,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Gardena
Responding
Party:                  None
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On January 31, 2024, plaintiff
Laureano Azurdia Camey filed a complaint against City of Gardena, Garabet
Kurbessoian and Garabet Kurbessoian dba S & M Service Station Inc. for (1)
premises liability and (2) dangerous condition of public property.
            On March 1, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC, adding City of Los Angeles and City of Carson as defendants.
            On April 26, 2024, defendants
Garabet Kurbessoian and Garabet Kurbessoian dba SM Service Station Inc. filed a
cross-complaint against City of Gardena and City of Los Angeles for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant City of Gardena demurs to
the complaint and the second cause of action for premises liability based on
dangerous condition on the ground that the allegations are insufficient to
constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. 
Defendant filed the demurrer after the FAC was filed and, thus, the
Court will construe the demurrer as a demurrer to the FAC.  The allegations in the complaint and FAC are
the same except to the extent the FAC adds two public entities as defendants.  Further, defendant attached the FAC to its
request for judicial notice.
The FAC alleges that plaintiff was
traveling westbound on Gardena Blvd., west of Figueroa Street, when a dangerous
overgrown tree fell on top of plaintiff’s vehicle crushing the roof while
located in front of 467 W. Gardena Blvd, property address 16435 S. Figueroa
St., Gardena.  The subject tree is owned,
maintained, and managed by defendants City of Gardena, City of Los Angeles, and
City of Carson, who failed to control the subject tree which had a natural
propensity to drop its limbs posing a significant hazard to others, failed to
inspect, evaluate the part of the tree likely to fail, the likelihood of
failure, and the likelihood that a failure will result in injury, and failed to
keep subject tree trimmed among other breaches of duty.  Said defendant tree owner knew or should have
known of said danger due to a long history of repairing the area around said
tree and had notice of the danger with sufficient time to remedy the situation,
causing severe injuries and damages to plaintiff.  
The FAC also alleges that City of
Carson alleges defendant City of Gardena is responsible for the subject
tree.  City of Gardena alleges defendant
City of Los Angeles is responsible for the subject tree.  
Defendant City of Gardena argues
that the complaint fails to establish that the accident took place on property
that was owned, operated, or maintained by the City of Gardena.  Defendant requests that the Court take judicial
notice of the County of Los Angeles Geographic Information System (GIS-NET)
regarding land use and planning and zoning for areas within Los Angeles County
(Exh. B), City of Los Angeles ZIMAS property system website (Exh. C), and
Google Maps (Exh. D).  Defendant contends
that the County maps were prepared by the Los Angeles County Department of
Regional Planning in coordination with the County Chief Information
Office.  Defendant contends that the maps
show that the accident took place in the City of Los Angeles and not in the
City of Gardena.  Defendant also argues
that the allegations are conclusory and insufficient to support a claim for
premises liability based on dangerous condition because they do not show that
City of Gardena actually owned, operated, or maintained the property where the
tree was located or had a legal duty to do so at the time of the accident.
There is no opposition.
The Court finds that based on the map
exhibits attached to defendant’s request for judicial notice, that the location
of the incident occurred in the City of Los Angeles and not the City of Gardena.  Thus, the allegations are insufficient to
show that City of Gardena owned, maintained, managed, or operated the premises
where the accident occurred.  Plaintiff had
chosen to not oppose this motion and hence does not argue otherwise.  So too, Plaintiff has not provided any
information that would lead the Court to conclude that Plaintiff could amend
the complaint.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the FAC and the second cause of action.
            Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.