  Case Number:  22TRCV01362    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DANTE
  HIGGINS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01362




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
EXPLORIFY
  MOTORCYCLE RENTALS, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 30,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Christopher W. Olmsted
and Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart, P.C., for defendant Explorify
Rental Los Angeles, LLC 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The Court requires information as
to the reason why defense counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel, which
defense counsel may provide in camera at the hearing. 
BACKGROUND
            On November 30, 2022, plaintiff
Dante Higgins filed a complaint against Explorify Motorcycle Rentals, LLC for
Labor Code violations and wrongful termination in violation of public
policy.   The
complaint alleges that plaintiff was employed by defendant on April 8, 2022 as
a general manager.  Complaint, ¶6.  Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt
employee during his employment with defendant. 
Id., ¶7.  On May 30, 2022,
plaintiff informed defendant via text message that he was sick and tested
positive for COVID-19 and that his doctor instructed him not to return to work
and remain in quarantine for ten days. 
Id., ¶9.  On June 8, 2022, the
same day plaintiff returned back to work following his sick leave, his direct
supervisor and the co-owner and/or manager of defendant called him into his
office and terminated plaintiff’s employment. 
Id., ¶10.  Defendant terminated
plaintiff’s employment in retaliation for him disclosing a positive COVID-19
test and for being ordered to quarantine and isolate pursuant to Labor Code
§6409.6.  Id., ¶11.  During plaintiff’s employment, defendant
engaged in a system of willful violations of the Labor Code, including failing
to pay plaintiff all wages earned, failing to keep and provide accurate and
timely records of wages earned and other mandated records, failing to pay
overtime wages, and failing to reimburse for necessary business expenses.  Id., ¶12.
            On April 2, 2024, the Court granted
plaintiff’s motion to quash to modify the subpoenas to California DMV and LA
Care.
            Trial is set for September 3, 2024,
having been continued by stipulation filed April 25, 2024 from June 5, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Explorify Rental Los
Angeles, LLC’s attorney Christopher W. Olmsted and Ogletree, Deakins, Nash,
Smoak & Stewart, P.C. seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            In the declaration, counsel does not
provide any reason for seeking to be relieved, although counsel states that: “In
the event the Court desires further information to ascertain the good faith
basis of this motion and for withdrawal, it is respectfully requested that the
Court have an in camera hearing outside the presence of all other parties so
that the specific facts demonstrating good cause for the withdrawal may be
demonstrated to the Court.”
The Court finds that although the
attorney submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied, counsel has not
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.  Accordingly, the Court requests
that counsel provide information at the hearing, in camera as necessary.