


[1] Plaintiff also references a Declaration of Philip
Bickler, M.D.  The Court notes that
Plaintiff filed two identical Bickler declarations in opposition to Defendant
Dinh’s motion for summary judgment/adjudication, but none in opposition to
Defendant Hershey-Weber’s motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  In any event, the Court finds the Bickler
declaration duplicative of the Rubin declaration with respect to evidence
regarding Hershey-Weber.


[2] “A deceit, within the meaning of the last section, is
either: 
1.
The suggestion, as a fact, of that which is not true, by one who does not
believe it to be true;
2.
The assertion, as a fact, of that which is not true, by one who has no
reasonable ground for believing it to be true; 
3.
The suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives
information of other facts which are likely to mislead for want of
communication of that fact; or, 
4.
A promise, made without any intention of performing it.” (Civ. Code, § 1710.)
 


[3] “[Name of plaintiff] claims that [name of defendant]
made a false representation that harmed [him/her/nonbinary pronoun/it]. To
establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must prove all of the following: 
1.
That [name of defendant] represented to [name of plaintiff] that a fact was
true; 
2.
That [name of defendant]'s representation was false; 
3.
That [name of defendant] knew that the representation was false when
[he/she/nonbinary pronoun] made it, or that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun] made the
representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; 
4.
That [name of defendant] intended that [name of plaintiff] rely on the
representation; 
5.
That [name of plaintiff] reasonably relied on [name of defendant]'s
representation; 
6.
That [name of plaintiff] was harmed; and 
7.
That [name of plaintiff]'s reliance on [name of defendant]'s representation was
a substantial factor in causing [his/her/nonbinary pronoun/its] harm.” (CACI
1900 (2022 ed.).)

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Motion
     for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Notice
     of Lodging Exhibits
Compendium
     of Evidence
Declaration
     of Jennie Raphelt, Esq.
Declaration
     of Hendrikus J.M. Lemmens, M.D., Ph.D.
Notice
     of Lodging Executed Signature Page of the Declaration of Hendrikus
     Lemmens, M.D., Ph.D.

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Opposition to Separate Statement
     of Undisputed Facts 
Declaration of Elena Rubin, M.D.
Declaration
     of Philip Bickler, M.D.
Declaration
     of Waukeen McCoy
Declaration
     of Daniel Brelian M.D.
Declaration
     of Vinay Ginjupalli
Notice
     of Errata (re Memo of Points and Authorities) 
Notice
     of Errata (re Opposition to Separate Statement)

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Complaint ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A
subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff suffered a stroke, causing central
visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive and behavioral issues.  (Complaint ¶ 32.)  
 
Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon, Defendant Dale Prokupek,
M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc. (“Prokupek”); Dr. Prokupek’s
company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. (“Millennium”); Millennium
employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist Defendant Michelle
Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. (“Soma”), where the
endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and operator of Soma
(“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
Defendant Dinh now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
adjudication, on the following issues: 
 
(1)  
there is no triable issue of material fact as to
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Medical Negligence against Defendant Dinh
because:
a.      
Defendant Dinh acted at all times within the standard
of care of anesthesiologists in the Southern California community; and 
b.     
Defendant Dinh did not cause or contribute to
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries;
 
(2)  
There is no triable issue of material fact as to
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Brech of Fiduciary Duty because:
a.      
Defendant Dinh did not owe a duty to Plaintiff to
advise him of the risks of stopping Xarelto prior to his procedure;
b.     
Even if Defendant Dinh owed such a duty, she did not
breach said duty; and
c.      
Plaintiff’s alleged injury was not caused by any
alleged breach by Defendant Dinh; and
 
(3)  
There is no triable issue of material fact as to
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation because:
a.      
Defendant Dinh did not make any misrepresentation to
Plaintiff that she knew was false at the time;
b.     
Defendant Dinh did not intend nor did she actually
induce Plaintiff’s justifiable reliance in any misrepresentations; and
c.      
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries were not the result of any
alleged misrepresentation by Defendant Dinh.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Dinh replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
UNTIMELY
OPPOSITION
 
            In Reply, Dinh objects to the untimeliness
of the opposition.  An opposition to a
motion for summary judgment must be filed and served at least 14 days before
the date of the hearing.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(2).)  Fourteen
days before the February 15 hearing date is February 1, yet Dinh contends that
Plaintiff did not serve the opposition on Dinh until February 2, and Dinh’s
legal team was unable to access the documents underlying Plaintiff’s opposition
until February 5, which is also the date Plaintiff filed the two notices of
errata to the memorandum and to the separate statement. 
 
The Court has discretion whether to consider late filed papers.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)  Here, the Court notes that the Opposition was
filed at 11:58 p.m. on February 1.   Dinh
does not indicate what time on February 2 the Opposition was served.  Moreover, the citations added to the
opposition memorandum and separate statement via notices of errata were
minimal.  Furthermore, Dinh does not
appear to have suffered any prejudice by virtue of the late service, as the
Reply brief was still filed and served five days prior to the hearing.
 
Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion and considers the
late-served opposition papers.
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.      PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE 
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
Dinh argues Plaintiff cannot
establish that Dinh breached the standard of care in her treatment and care of
Plaintiff, nor that an act or omission by Dinh caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s
alleged injuries.  
 
a.      Defendant’s Evidence           
 
Dinh relies on the Declaration
of Hendrikus Lemmens, M.D., Ph.D. (“Lemmens”), who is an anesthesiologist
licensed to practice in the State of California since 1994.  (Lemmens Decl. ¶ 3.) Lemmens reviewed the
following in order to craft his declaration and form his opinions:  (a) Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint; (b)
Plaintiff’s Soma Surgery Center medical records; (c) Plaintiff’s St. Joseph’s
Hospital medical records; (d) Dr. Dinh’s Deposition Transcript; (e) Plaintiff’s
deposition transcript; (f) Defendant Hershey-Weber’s Deposition Transcript; and
(g) witness Derrick Edwards’ Deposition Transcript.  (Lemmens Decl. ¶ 14.)    
 
Lemmens states, in pertinent
part, that “I am familiar with the care and treatment of Plaintiff on
November 4, 2020 and it is my expert opinion that to a reasonable degree of
probability Defendant Dinh acted at all times within the standard of care of
anesthesiologists in the Southern California community since 1994 and no act or
omission by Defendant Dinh caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s alleged
injuries.”  (Lemmens Decl. ¶ 15.)  Further, Dr. Lemmens declares:
 
17. It is my expert opinion, based upon my
education, training, experience, knowledge and review of the records that to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, Defendant Dinh acted at all times
within the standard of care of anesthesiologists in the Southern California
community since 1994. This opinion is based upon the following: 
 
a. Defendant Dinh appropriately noted Plaintiff’s
cessation of his Xarelto medication and deferred to Defendant Prokupek for
orders regarding Xarelto. 
 
i. Any orders regarding a patient’s medications,
specifically regarding anticoagulants, are the responsibility of the doctor
performing the procedure, not the anesthesiologist. The issue of balancing the
risk of bleeding versus thrombosis is under the jurisdiction of the physician
performing the endoscopy. 
 
(1) Defendant Prokupek was the doctor performing
the procedure. 
 
ii. Xarelto is often stopped prior to a procedure
to diminish the likelihood of bleeding during the procedure but has no
anesthesia related concerns. 
 
(1) There is no indication in the records that
Plaintiff’s cessation of medication was outside the scope of the doctor’s
orders. 
 
(2) Defendant Dinh would have no cause for
concern based on Plaintiff’s information that he ceased Xarelto four (4) days
prior as that medication is not monitored by anesthesiologists. 
 
b. Prior to the procedure, Plaintiff did not
inform anyone he consumed orange juice within six (6) hours of the procedure. 
 
i. Anesthesia guidelines recommend nothing by
mouth six (6) hours prior to procedure with the exception for clear liquids
such as water, tea, or black coffee. 
 
ii. Plaintiff informed both SSC staff and
Defendant Dinh that he had not consumed anything after midnight. 
 
(1) Defendant Dinh appropriately cleared
Plaintiff for surgery based on Plaintiff’s representation that he had not
consumed anything for more than eight (8) hours prior. 
 
c. Dr. Dinh administered appropriate doses of
anesthesia for this particular patient. 
 
i. A dose of 300 mg of Propofol is appropriate
for this particular patient undergoing this particular procedure. 
 
d. Defendant Dinh appropriately treated
Plaintiff’s aspiration event. 
 
i. Aspiration is a risk of every procedure with
anesthesia. 
 
ii. Plaintiff was stable after receiving
respiratory treatment, not hypoxic or hypotensive. 
 
iii. Defendant Dinh observed Plaintiff after the
event and, in an abundance of caution, instructed him to seek emergency medical
care to receive a chest X-ray study. 
 
(1) Defendant Dinh appropriately conceded to
Plaintiff’s stated desire not to be transported by ambulance to the emergency
department but to allow his friend to transport him. 
 
(a) Plaintiff was able to breathe normally on
room air with oxygen saturation close to 100%. 
 
(b) Plaintiff was able to ambulate and
communicate and met discharge criteria. 
 
(c) Plaintiff represented that he would go
immediately to the emergency department. 
 
(d) Defendant Dinh provided a handwritten note
for Plaintiff to give emergency medical providers to facilitate care in the
emergency department.
 
18. It is my expert opinion, based upon my
education, training, experience, knowledge and review of the records that to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, no negligent action or omission by
Defendant Dinh caused or contributed to the Decedent’s alleged injuries. This
opinion is based upon the following:
 
a. Plaintiff’s stroke was unrelated to the mild
aspiration event he experienced at SSC.
 
i. Plaintiff’s stroke was not ischemic. 
 
ii. Plaintiff’s stroke was the result of
blood clots. 
 
iii. Blood clots are not caused by
aspiration. 
 
b. Plaintiff’s stroke effects were not made worse
by the aspiration event. 
 
i. Plaintiff’s moment of bronchospasm was
less than one minute. 
 
ii. Plaintiff was stable after receiving
respiratory treatments. 
 
iii. Plaintiff was able to ambulate and
communicate upon arrival at Providence St. Joseph Hospital’s Emergency
Department where he was then under the care of emergency medicine providers.
 
(Lemmens
Decl. ¶¶ 17-18.)
 
Dinh’s evidence is sufficient
to meet Dinh’s burden of persuasion/production of evidence to show that
Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Dinh breached the standard of care
with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and Dinh’s breach of the
standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.  Thus, Dinh has shifted the burden of
production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff advances the
Declaration of Philip Bickler, M.D. (“Bickler”), who is a physician licensed to
practice medicine in California, a Board certified Anesthesiologist and
“familiar with the standard of care required of Anesthesiologists such as Dr.
Dinh in the care and treatment of patients with the same or similar conditions”
as Plaintiff, as someone who “frequently provide[s] anesthesia for patients
undergoing GI endoscopy procedures[.]” 
(Bickler Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)  Bickler
reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records from Dr. Prokupek, Dr. Dinh, Soma Surgery
Center, and Providence St. Joseph Medical Center and the deposition transcripts
of Dr. Dinh, Dr. Prokupek, and Plaintiff in forming his opinions.  (Bickler Decl. ¶ 4.)  Dr. Bickler declared, “It is my
opinion that, at all times relevant, Dr. Dinh and Nurse Practitioner
Hershey-Weber failed to comply with the applicable standards of care in
treating Mr. Chamis and their failures were a cause or contributing factors in
the injuries alleged by plaintiff.” 
(Bickler Decl. ¶ 5.)  Dr. Bickler
elaborated:
 
 
As noted by Dr. Dinh, Mr. Chamis had a history of
severe GERD, increasing the aspiration risk during any procedure involving
sedation or general anesthesia. Compounding the risk of aspiration in patients
like Mr. Chamis, it appears that he had ingested non-clear liquids (orange
juice) the morning of the procedure in question. While the use of propofol as a
sedative/hypnotic for a GI procedure is routine, the use of a total of 300 mg
over such a short period of time is exceptional and more probably than not, a
contributing factor to the vomiting and aspiration.  
 
On July 28, 2023, Defendant Dinh sat for
deposition. Dr. Dinh testified that the first time she met Plaintiff was on
November 4, 2020. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh Deposition Transcript at
15:4-19. Dr. Dinh admitted that she did not know who prepared Plaintiff’s
pre-op record. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh Deposition Transcript at 22:8-18.
Dr. Dinh admitted to meeting with Plaintiff 30 minutes before his surgery on
November 4, 2020 to evaluate him for aesthetics. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh
Deposition Transcript at 23:15-23, 24:8-13, 62:8-14. Dr. Dinh admitted that she
did not meet with Dr. Prokupek prior to the surgery to discuss the Plaintiff’s
medical history. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh Deposition Transcript at
62:25-63:3. 
 
Dr. Dinh testified that Dr. Prokupek was not
truthful when he testified that he conducted a timeout with Dr. Dinh and
confirming Plaintiff was off his blood thinners. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh
Deposition Transcript at 65:10-14. Dr. Dinh admitted that Defendant Melanie
Kerr informed her that Plaintiff had been off his Xarelto for four days. See,
McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh Deposition Transcript at 67:3-8. Dr. Dinh admitted
that she went ahead with sedating Plaintiff without a full understanding of his
medical history. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh Deposition Transcript at
67:9-18.
 
Page 2670 of Experts document #4 describes
Chamis’s condition in the ER later in the day following his endoscopy procedure
with Dr. Prokupek and anesthesia by Dr. Dinh. The fact that he presented with
hypoxemia (saturation 83%) is evidence of the severity of the aspiration event.
It is also the expected course of events following significant aspiration,
where lung injury does not peak immediately.
 
Dr. Dinh fell below the standard of care of
anesthesiologists in Southern California, during the relevant time period, in
several instances. The standard of care for an anesthesiologist is to formulate
a plan that respects a patient’s underlying medical conditions and is therefore
the safest possible of many options. A safe treatment plan for a patient like
Plaintiff should have considered peri-operative stroke risk and the period of
time he had been of anticoagulants. 
Further, the standard of care demanded that Dr. Dinh should have used
general anesthesia with an endotracheal tube to protect the airway, given that
she used very deep sedation which prevented Plaintiff from being able to
protect his own airway from aspiration. In addition, Dr. Dinh should not have
let Plaintiff go to the ED under own recognizance; as he should have been on
supplemental oxygen during his trip to the hospital, given that his saturation,
according to Dr. Dinh’s note, was 92-93% at the time of discharge.
 
Mr.
Chamis’ severe neurologic deficits which persist after 11/4/20 were a direct
result of SOC violations by both Dr. Prokupek and Dr. Dinh. They both were at
fault for causing both the aspiration pneumonitis and the severe stroke. The
hypoxemia caused by aspiration made the stroke worse and worsened Chamis’
long-term neurological outcome.
 
 
(Bickler Decl. ¶ 5. i-k, n, q, t.)
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Dinh breached the standard of care with respect to
the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and whether Dinh’s breach of the standard
of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. 
 
2.      BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY
 
To prevail on a claim of
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach. (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.
(Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff’s claim is centered
on “Dinh’s improper instructions to Plaintiff that it was safe for Plaintiff to
undergo an upper endoscopy procedure after stopping his Xarelto for 5-7
days.  As a result of Dr. Dinh’s improper
instructions and the medical procedures Defendants performed on November 4,
2020, Plaintiff suffered a massive stroke, resulting in Plaintiff not being
able to care for himself.”  (Opposition
pp. 15-16.)
 
a.      Defendant’s Evidence           
 
As discussed above, Lemmens
declared:
 
a. Defendant Dinh appropriately noted Plaintiff’s
cessation of his Xarelto medication and deferred to Defendant Prokupek for
orders regarding Xarelto. 
 
i. Any orders regarding a patient’s medications,
specifically regarding anticoagulants, are the responsibility of the doctor
performing the procedure, not the anesthesiologist. The issue of balancing the
risk of bleeding versus thrombosis is under the jurisdiction of the physician
performing the endoscopy. 
 
(1) Defendant Prokupek was the doctor performing
the procedure. 
 
ii. Xarelto is often stopped prior to a procedure
to diminish the likelihood of bleeding during the procedure but has no
anesthesia related concerns. 
 
(1) There is no indication in the records that
Plaintiff’s cessation of medication was outside the scope of the doctor’s
orders. 
 
(2) Defendant Dinh would have no cause for
concern based on Plaintiff’s information that he ceased Xarelto four (4) days
prior as that medication is not monitored by anesthesiologists. 
 
b. Prior to the procedure, Plaintiff did not
inform anyone he consumed orange juice within six (6) hours of the procedure. 
 
i. Anesthesia guidelines recommend nothing by
mouth six (6) hours prior to procedure with the exception for clear liquids
such as water, tea, or black coffee. 
 
ii. Plaintiff informed both SSC staff and
Defendant Dinh that he had not consumed anything after midnight. 
 
(1) Defendant Dinh appropriately cleared
Plaintiff for surgery based on Plaintiff’s representation that he had not
consumed anything for more than eight (8) hours prior. 
 
(Lemmens Decl. ¶ 17.)
 
            Moreover, Dinh cleared Plaintiff for
anesthesia, including informing him of the risks of damage to the teeth or
vocal cords, aspiration, stroke, heart attack, and death.  (Exhibit C, p. 5, 66; Exhibit E 119:4-23,
153:13-10.)
 
            Furthermore, Lemmens declared that
the stroke Plaintiff suffered was not caused or exacerbated by the mild
aspiration event Plaintiff experienced during his endoscopy at Soma:
 
18. It is my expert opinion, based upon my
education, training, experience, knowledge and review of the records that to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, no negligent action or omission by
Defendant Dinh caused or contributed to the Decedent’s alleged injuries. This
opinion is based upon the following:
 
a. Plaintiff’s stroke was unrelated to the mild
aspiration event he experienced at SSC. 
 
i. Plaintiff’s stroke was not ischemic. 
 
ii. Plaintiff’s stroke was the result of
blood clots. 
 
iii. Blood clots are not caused by
aspiration. 
 
b. Plaintiff’s stroke effects were not made worse
by the aspiration event. 
 
i. Plaintiff’s moment of bronchospasm was
less than one minute. 
 
ii. Plaintiff was stable after receiving
respiratory treatments. 
 
iii. Plaintiff was able to ambulate and
communicate upon arrival at Providence St. Joseph Hospital’s Emergency
Department where he was then under the care of emergency medicine providers.
 
(Lemmens
Decl. ¶ 18.)
 
            Therefore, Dinh’s evidence is
sufficient to meet Dinh’s burden of persuasion/production of evidence that (1)
Dr. Dinh did not owe a fiduciary duty to warn Plaintiff about the potential
risks of ceasing the Xarelto medication prior to undergoing anesthesia; (2)
Dinh adequately warned Plaintiff of the relevant risks in any event; and (3)
Dinh’s failure to warn about the risks of ceasing the Xarelto medication did
not cause Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff has provided the declaration of Bickler, which provides, in
relevant part:
 
i. As noted by Dr. Dinh, Mr. Chamis had a history
of severe GERD, increasing the aspiration risk during any procedure involving
sedation or general anesthesia. Compounding the risk of aspiration in patients
like Mr. Chamis, it appears that he had ingested non-clear liquids (orange
juice) the morning of the procedure in question. While the use of propofol as a
sedative/hypnotic for a GI procedure is routine, the use of a total of 300 mg
over such a short period of time is exceptional and more probably than not, a
contributing factor to the vomiting and aspiration.
 
[…]
 
l. Dr. Prokupek and Dr. Dinh contradict each
other in their respective postprocedure notes about the patient’s condition.
Dr. Prokupek’s note says the vital signs are “perfectly normal,” but Dr. Dinh
notes that Mr. Chamis’ saturation was 92-93%, which is not normal. When Mr.
Chamis presented to the ED his saturation was below 85%. This would have made
the severity of any stroke worse, and made the ultimate neurologic outcome more
disabling as well.
 
[…]
 
r. Dr. Dinh (the anesthesiologist on 11/2/2020)
also admitted that she did not inform Mr. Chamis about the dangerous and
inherent consequences of him stopping Xarelto. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. C., Dinh
Deposition Transcript at 119:24-120:2.
 
(Bickler
Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
            With respect to duty, Plaintiff has
not provided any evidence to challenge Dinh’s evidence that stopping Xarelto
did not increase Plaintiff’s risks of any anesthesia-related complications,
such that Dinh owed a duty to warn Plaintiff of the risks of going under
anesthesia after ceasing the Xarelto medication.  However, Plaintiff has provided evidence
creating disputed issues of material fact with regard to whether Plaintiff’s
history of GERD and ingestion of orange juice the morning of his surgery
increased Plaintiff’s risk of vomiting and aspiration from anesthesia,
especially under the high quantities of propofol that were used.  There is also a disputed issue of material
fact with respect to whether Dinh was or should have been aware Plaintiff
ingested orange juice the morning of surgery. 
(Compare Exhibit C, pp. 5, 45 and Exhibit E, pp. 99:2-25, 100:1-5,
152:2-9 with Exhibit E, pp. 97:12-25, 98:1-3.) 

 
            As for causation, Plaintiff has also
provided evidence creating disputed issues of material fact as to whether the
vomiting and aspiration exacerbated the severity of Plaintiff’s stroke and
subsequent injuries.  
 
            However, with respect to breach,
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence creating a disputed issue of material
fact with respect to whether Dinh breached her fiduciary duty by failing to
disclose the increased risks.  Dinh has
provided evidence that she consented Plaintiff for anesthesia, informing him of
the risks of damages to his teeth or vocal cords, aspiration, stroke, heart
attack, and death.  (Exhibit C, p. 5, 66;
Exhibit E 119:4-23, 153:13-19.)  Although
Plaintiff disputes this fact, the only evidence Plaintiff provides in
opposition is that (1) Dinh admitted she did not know who prepared Plaintiff’s
pre-op record (Dinh Depo 22:8-18); (2)  Dinh
admitted to meeting with Plaintiff 30 minutes before his surgery (Dinh Depo
23:15-23, 24:10-13; 62:9-14); and (3) Dinh admitted she sedated Plaintiff
without a full understanding of his medical history (Dinh Depo 67:9-18.)  However, none of Plaintiff’s proffered
evidence disputes Dinh’s evidence that she warned Plaintiff of the increased
risks of aspiration and stroke and obtained Plaintiff’s consent during her
meeting with him 30 minutes prior to surgery.
 
            Therefore, finding no disputed issue
of material fact that Dinh breached her fiduciary duty of disclosure, the Court
grants summary adjudication as to Issue 2. 
 
3.      INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION
 
“Fraud is an intentional tort; it is the element of fraudulent intent,
or intent to deceive, that distinguishes it from actionable negligent
misrepresentation and from nonactionable innocent misrepresentation. It is the
element of intent which makes fraud actionable, irrespective of any contractual
or fiduciary duty one party might owe to the other.” (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
482.) And “The well-established common law elements of fraud which give rise to
the tort action for deceit[1]
are: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact (consisting of false
representation, concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to deceive and induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance
on the misrepresentation; and (5) resulting damage.” (Id. at p. 481.)[2]
 
As discussed above, there is no disputed issue of material fact that
Dr. Dinh consented Plaintiff after warning him of the increased risks of
aspiration and stroke.  Plaintiff has
provided no other evidence that Dr. Dinh made any misrepresentation or
concealed any information from Plaintiff. 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Dinh’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted in part
and denied in part.  Plaintiff’s evidence
is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of triable issues of material fact as to whether Dinh
breached the standard of care with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff,
and whether Dinh’s breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to
Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. Therefore, the Court denies summary adjudication
as to Issue 1.  Because the Court denies
summary adjudication as to Issue 1, Dinh’s motion for summary judgment is also
denied.
 
Finding no issues of material fact that Dinh warned Plaintiff of the
increased risks of aspiration and stroke prior to undergoing anesthesia, the
Court grants summary adjudication as to Issues 2 and 3.  
 
Dinh shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  February 15, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


