 Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Michael Keyes DBA Global Ocean and Land
  Construction




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Glenn Vallecillos M.D., Inc.



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case stems from a dispute over the remodel of Plaintiff Glenn
Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) surgical center.  
 
Plaintiff filed the original complaint on August 10, 2022, against
Defendants Michael Keyes dba Global Ocean and Land Construction (“Keyes”) and
Hudson Insurance Company, alleging twelve causes of action for (1) breach of
written contract; (2) unjust enrichment; (3) intentional misrepresentation; (4)
negligent misrepresentation; (5) unfair business practices; (6) negligence; (7)
declaratory relief; (8) disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed contractor;
(9) recovery on contractors bond; (10) conversion; and (11) violation of Penal Code
section 496.
 
Keyes demurred to ten of the eleven causes of action, and the Court
sustained Keyes’ demurrers only as to the third and fourth causes of action for
intentional and negligent misrepresentation, granting Plaintiff thirty days
leave to amend.  (See April 13, 2023
Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff timely filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), bolstering
the factual allegations as to Keyes’ alleged misrepresentations, and adding
Defendants Pacific Source Insurance Agency (“Pacific”), Antoinette Turner
(“Turner”), Pacific’s principal, and American Contractors Indemnity Company
(“American”), as well as additional causes of action for negligence, action on
bond, intentional and negligent misrepresentation against Turner and Pacific,
and an additional cause of action for conspiracy to commit fraud as to Keyes,
Pacific, and Turner.
 
On November 3, the Court sustained Pacific and Turner’s demurrers to
the fourteenth and fifteenth causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation, and to the sixteenth cause of action for conspiracy to
commit fraud, with leave to amend.  The
court also struck Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages as to Pacific and
Turner with leave to amend.  (See
November 3, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
On November 9, 2023, the Court overruled Keyes’ demurrers to the third
and fourth causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation,
finding that the new allegations sufficiently alleged misrepresentations by
Keyes with requisite particularity.  The
Court also overruled Keyes’ objection to the addition of new parties and causes
of action without proper leave of court on the basis that such objections were
not a proper basis for a demurrer, and that the proper procedural vehicle to
raise these issues would have been a motion to strike the FAC, which Keyes did
not file.  (See November 9, 2023 Minute
Order.)
 
On November 8, Plaintiff timely filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”).  Keyes again demurs to the third
and fourth causes of action for failure to state a cause of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subd. (e), as well as to the entire
complaint for misjoinder of parties, pursuant to subdivision (d) and
uncertainty pursuant to subdivision (f)[1].  Defendant also objects to the SAC as
procedurally defective for adding new parties Pacific, Turner, and American,
and causes of action twelve through sixteen, without proper leave of
court.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
OBJECTION
TO DEMURRER
 
            Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s
demurrer for failure to distinctly specify the grounds upon which each
objection to the complaint is based, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.60.  Defendant’s notice of
demurrer indicates it is brought as to the entire SAC on the grounds of
uncertainty and misjoinder, and the third and fourth cause of action for
failure to state a cause of action. 
Defendant’s notice also indicates Defendant objects to the SAC as
procedurally improper for exceeding the scope of the Court’s leave.  To the extent Defendant’s briefing contains
other arguments, the Court will disregard them as not properly noticed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.    MISJOINDER/PROCEDURAL
DEFECTS
 
Anyone who has a “claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the action” may be joined as
defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 379, subd. (a)(2).) A demurrer for misjoinder
will lie only where it appears from the face of the complaint or matters
judicially noticeable that either plaintiffs lack sufficient unity of interest
(Code Civ. Proc., § 378) or there is no common question of law or fact as to
the defendants (Code Civ. Proc., § 379). (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:78 et seq., p.
7(I)-42 et seq.) 
 
Defendant’s misjoinder and procedural defect arguments are the same –
that “plaintiff has unlawfully added causes of action and additional parties
without the required leave of court” (Demurrer at p. 8.) However, Defendant
does not specify how or why the addition of Defendants Pacific and Turner and
causes of action twelve through sixteen to the FAC or the addition of American
to the SAC constitutes misjoinder of parties.
 
Notwithstanding, a review of the record demonstrates that on April 13,
2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the intentional and negligent
misrepresentation causes of action with leave to amend. (See Minute Order of
April 13, 2023.) To the extent that Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s FAC was
not drawn in conformance with the Court’s April 13, 2023 order, as the Court
previously explained, Defendant should have filed a motion to strike the FAC as
opposed to a demurrer, which is procedurally improper in this context. (See
November 9, 2023 Minute Order [citing Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:174, p. 7(I)-78 [“CCP
§ 436(b) is commonly invoked to challenge pleadings filed in violation of a
deadline or court order or requirement of prior leave of court. [Ferraro v.
Camarlinghi, supra, 161 CA4th at 528, 75 CR3d at 34] . . . Amended complaint
alleging facts beyond permissible scope of amendment”].])  
 
Similarly, to the extent Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s SAC was not
drawn in conformance with the Court’s November 3, 2023 order sustaining
Pacific’s and Turner’s demurrers to the thirteenth and fourteenth causes of
action with leave to amend, the proper vehicle to raise these concerns is a
motion to strike, which Plaintiff again did not file.
 
B.     KEYES’
RENEWED DEMURRERS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b) provides, “A
party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to an earlier
version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion of the
amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds that could have been
raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer.”  
 
Once a court overrules a demurrer to a cause of action, it is
“foreclosed from rendering a new determination on the viability of those claims
unless some new facts or circumstances were brought to [its] attention.”  (Bennett v. Suncloud (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 91, 97.)
 
Here, Keyes previously demurred to the third and fourth causes of
action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation for failure to state a
cause of action, and to the entire FAC for uncertainty, which the Court
overruled in its entirety.  (See November
9, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Keyes now files virtually identical demurrers to the SAC, again demurring
to the third and fourth causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation for failure to state a cause of action, and to the entire FAC
for uncertainty, raising the same arguments that Keyes already raised (and
which the Court previously rejected) in connection with the FAC.  But Plaintiff does not raise any new facts or
circumstances empowering the Court to render a new determination on the
viability of those claims.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Keyes’ demurrers to the SAC as
procedurally improper.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer in
its entirety.  
 
Keyes shall file and serve an Answer to the SAC on or before February
29, 2024.
 
Keyes shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 15, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


