 Case Number:  22SMCV01270    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01270




MOTION


Motion
  for Terminating and Monetary Sanctions




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Advanced Nutrients, Inc.; Advanced Nutrients US, LLC; and Michael Straumietis




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Ryan Macdhubhain



 
MOTION
 
            This case arises from a dispute
involving Plaintiff Ryan Macdhubhain’s (“Plaintiff”) employment termination.  Plaintiff contends, among other things, that pursuant
to a December 2019 letter agreement, Defendants Advanced Nutrients, Inc.;
Advanced Nutrients US, LLC; and Michael Straumietis (“Defendants”) agreed that
in the event they terminated Plaintiff’s employment without cause before the
end of 2022, Defendants would pay Plaintiff an additional 6 months of salary
plus commission.  But Defendants failed
to pay Plaintiff that amount when they terminated him without cause in May of
2022.  (Complaint ¶¶ 8, 19, 25.)
 
Defendants move for terminating and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
for repeatedly producing and presenting an altered version of the December 2019
letter agreement.  Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants reply.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
When a party misuses the discovery process, the court in its
discretion may impose sanction.  (See generally
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010, 2023.030.) 
Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to:
 
(a) Persisting, over objection and without
substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or materials
that are outside the scope of permissible discovery.
 
(b) Using a discovery method in a manner that
does not comply with its specified procedures.
 
(c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or
to an extent that causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression,
or undue burden and expense.
 
(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.
 
(e) Making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery.
 
(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.
 
(g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.
 
(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery.
 
(i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an
opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a
particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts
showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
California discovery law authorizes a range of
penalties for a party's refusal to obey a discovery order, including monetary
sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, issue sanctions, and terminating sanctions. A
court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate penalty, . . . .
Despite this broad discretion, the courts have long recognized that the
terminating sanction is a drastic penalty and should be used sparingly. A trial
court must be cautious when imposing a terminating sanction because the sanction
eliminates a party's fundamental right to a trial, thus implicating due process
rights. The trial court should select a sanction that is tailored to the harm
caused by the withheld discovery. Sanctions should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.
 
(Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604 [cleaned up].) 
 
When a party fails to respond to the opposing
party's interrogatories, the court should begin by imposing monetary sanctions
and ordering the party to respond. If a party then fails to obey an order
compelling answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction.  In general, a court may not
impose issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions unless a party disobeys a
court order.  
 
(Moofly
Productions, LLC v. Favila (2020) 46 CalApp.5th 1, 11 [cleaned up] [citing Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c)].)  However,
“a terminating sanction issued solely because of a failure to pay a monetary
discovery sanction is never justified.” (Newland v. Superior Court
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.)
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff filed his complaint in
this matter on August 2, 2022.  Paragraph
8 of the Complaint indicates that Defendant Straumietis sent Plaintiff a
December 10, 2019 letter agreement, indicating that in the event Plaintiff’s
employment is terminated without cause prior to the end of 2022, Defendants
will pay Plaintiff an additional 6 months’ salary and commission.  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  Although paragraph 8 of the complaint
indicates a true and correct copy of the December 10, 2019 letter agreement is
attached to the complaint as Exhibit A, the version of the complaint that was
filed with the Court does not contain any attachments.  (See Complaint.)  Defendant contends that the version of the
complaint it received did contain an Exhibit A, bearing a DocuSign ID beginning
with 13B0F.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 2 and Ex.
A.)  
 
            On November 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an application for right to attach order and writ of attachment.  In support of that application, Plaintiff
filed a declaration, indicating that Defendant Straumietis sent Plaintiff the
December 19, 2019 letter agreement, a true and correct copy of which was
purportedly attached to Plaintiff’s declaration as Exhibit A.  (Macdhubhain Decl. ¶ 3.)  The letter agreement attached as Exhibit A to
the Macdhubhain Declaration bore the same DocuSign ID beginning with 13B0F.  (Macdhubhain Decl. ¶ 3 and Ex A.)
 
            In a verified response to
Defendants’ request for production of documents, Plaintiff produced as
MAC000003 a copy of the letter agreement bearing the same DocuSign ID beginning
with 13B0F.  (Scala Decl. ¶¶ 5-6 and Exs.
D-E.)  Defendants did not produce a copy
of the letter agreement in discovery, indicating that they could not locate it
in Plaintiff’s personnel file.  (Motion
at p. 1:8-10.)
 
            At Plaintiff’s July 17, 2023
deposition, when questioned about the letter agreement, Plaintiff testified
that Defendant Straumietis held a meeting with about 12-15 people, where he had
Melissa Jordan hand out letter agreements to each member of the sales team, including
Plaintiff, to assuage their concerns about the security of their job positions.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 7 and Ex. F)  Plaintiff further testified that he and all
the other members of the sales team signed the agreements, then handed them
back in to Melissa Jordan.  (Ibid.)  When asked how Plaintiff obtained a copy of
the letter agreement, he indicated “I believe we got this as a copy when we
were there.  I asked for it.  Yeah, a digital copy.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Two days later, at the deposition of
Kennedy Tran, another former employee of Defendants, who also brought suit
against Defendants, and who is also represented by Plaintiff’s counsel,
Defendants’ counsel noticed that Kennedy Tran’s letter agreement bore the exact
same DocuSign ID beginning with 13B0F. 
(Scala Decl. ¶ 8 and Ex. G.)
 
            Subsequently, Defendants searched
its DocuSign archives and found Plaintiff’s actual letter agreement, bearing a
DocuSign ID beginning with 137D4 (Scala Decl. ¶ 8 (second)[1]
and Ex. H.)  Defendants also found
Kennedy Tran’s actual letter agreement, bearing a DocuSign ID beginning with 96F44.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 8 (second) and Ex. J.)  Defendants discovered the DocuSign ID
beginning with 13B0F actually pertained to Melissa Jordan’s letter
agreement.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 8 (second) and
Ex. I.)  Melissa Jordan’s employment was
terminated in February 2022 – three months prior to Plaintiff’s.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 12 and Ex. N.)  The substance of the three letter agreements
is identical, except for the name of the letter recipient and the signatures.
 
            When confronted about the altered
letter agreement bearing DocuSign ID beginning with 13B0F that Plaintiff had
previously held out as a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s letter agreement,
Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that Plaintiff received the altered letter
agreement from Melissa Jordan, and provided Defendants’ counsel with copies of
the emails Melissa Jordan had sent to Kennedy Tran and to Plaintiff, containing
the already-altered letter agreements.  (Scala
Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. K.)
 
            In supplemental discovery responses,
Plaintiff admitted he received the altered letter agreement from Melissa Jordan
on May 12, 2022.  (Scala Decl. ¶¶ 10-11
and Exs. L-M.)
 
            Defendants subsequently demanded a forensic
inspection of Plaintiff’s cell phone, in an attempt to determine whether
Plaintiff was involved in altering the letter agreement.  (Scala Decl. ¶ 15.)  The parties agreed to a protocol for the
forensic analysis, but to date, Plaintiff has refused to retain a forensic
analyst, pursuant to the agreement.  (Ibid.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
provision of altered evidence constitutes a misuse of the discovery process,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, warranting terminating
and/or monetary sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030.  Plaintiff contends that the real misuse of
the discovery process is Defendants’ failure to produce the real letter
agreement, and requests monetary sanctions against Defendants.  Plaintiff also argues that Plaintiff, in good
faith, obtained and relied upon what turned out to be an altered letter
agreement from Melissa Jordan.  Defendant
counters that Plaintiff’s changing testimony regarding the source of the
altered letter agreement and the fact that Melissa Jordan emailed Plaintiff the
letter agreement three months after her own termination (when she would no
longer have had access to company files) demonstrate Plaintiff knowingly or at
least negligently produced a false and altered copy of the letter
agreement.  
 
Defendants rely on Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and
2023.030 as authority for their request. 
However, “Section 2023.030 does not independently authorize the court to
impose sanctions for discovery misconduct.” 
(City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 466, 502.)  Rather, “Section
2023.030 describes the types of sanctions available under the Discovery Act
when another provision authorizes a particular sanction.”  (Ibid.)
 
Moreover, “[u]nlike provisions of the Discovery Act which expressly
direct the court to impose specific types of sanctions under specific
circumstances, there is no language in section 2023.010 stating that the court
may impose a sanction under chapter 7 or stating the type of sanction to
impose.”  (City of Los Angeles, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th at p. 500)  “Instead, each
of the categories of misconduct listed in section 2023.010 are managed through
the procedures set forth in the chapters governing the discovery methods, as
well as the other provisions of the Discovery Act that regulate and sanction
misconduct.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, Defendants do not cite to or
rely on any other provision of the Discovery Act authorizing the Court to
impose sanctions.  Similarly, Plaintiff
does not cite to any authority in support of his request “that Defendants be
subject to monetary sanctions, an amount to be determined upon request by the
Court.” (Opp. at p. 9.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Because neither Defendants nor
Plaintiff have provided statutory authority authorizing the Court to impose the
requested sanctions, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for terminating and
monetary sanctions.  The Court similarly
denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.  
 
Defendants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  February 15, 2024                         ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court


