  Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Motion
     for Summary Adjudication; 
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities;
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Evidence
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Jennifer R. Koerner

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Opposition to Separate Statement
     of Undisputed Facts 
Declaration of Elena Rubin, RN MSN-FNP-C[1]
Declaration
     of Vinay Ginjupalli
Declaration
     of Waukeen McCoy
Notice
     of Errata (re Memo of Points and Authorities) 
Notice
     of Errata (re Opposition to Separate Statement)

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
Objections
     to Evidence
Reply
     to Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Complaint ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A
subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff suffered a stroke, causing central
visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive and behavioral issues.  (Complaint ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc.
(“Prokupek”); Dr. Prokupek’s company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates,
Inc. (“Millennium”); Millennium employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc.
(“Soma”), where the endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and
operator of Soma (“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Defendant”
or “Hershey-Weber”); and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three
causes of action: (1) professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach
of fiduciary duty; and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
Hershey-Weber now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
adjudication, on the following issues: 
 
(1)  
Plaintiff cannot prevail on his first cause of action
for professional negligence-medical malpractice as to Hershey-Weber because
there is no triable issue of material fact to dispute the contention that
Hershey-Weber committed no act or omission constituting conduct below the
applicable standard of practice in the care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff
and nothing she did or failed to do caused or contributed to plaintiff’s
injuries/damages;
 
(2)  
There is no triable issue of material fact to support
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty-lack of
informed consent as to Hershey-Weber; and
 
(3)  
There is no triable issue of material fact to support
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation as to
Hershey-Weber
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Hershey-Weber
replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
UNTIMELY
OPPOSITION
 
            In Reply, Hershey-Weber objects
to the untimeliness of the opposition. 
An opposition to a motion for summary judgment must be filed and served
at least 14 days before the date of the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(2).)  Fourteen days before the February 15 hearing
date is February 1, yet Hershey-Weber contends that Plaintiff did not serve the
opposition on her until February 2, and Plaintiff filed the two notices of
errata to the memorandum and to the separate statement on February 5. 
 
The Court has discretion whether to consider late filed papers.  (California Rule of Court 3.1300(d).)  Here, the Court notes that the Opposition was
filed at 11:45 pm on February 1.  Hershey-Weber
does not indicate what time on February 2 the Opposition was served.  Moreover, the citations added to the
opposition memorandum and separate statement via notices of errata were
minimal.  Furthermore, Hershey-Weber does
not appear to have suffered any prejudice by virtue of the late service, as the
Reply brief was still filed and served more than five days prior to the
hearing.
 
Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion and considers the
late-served opposition papers.
 
EVIDENCE
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Hershey-Weber’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence:
 

Overruled
Sustained (see also fn. 1)
Overruled

 
DISCUSSION
 
1.      PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE 
 
“Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his
or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974)
42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own
profession.  The courts require only that
physicians and surgeons exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable
degree of skill, knowledge, and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by
members of the medical profession under similar circumstances.  Thus, liability is not found, and the label of
malpractice is not placed upon a physician's actions, unless some deviation by
the physician from the standard of care that his peers consider appropriate in
the situation under review is proven.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony
(citations), unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman’ ”].) 
As the Court of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for
medical professionals:  “The standard of
care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter
peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a
malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony.  California courts have incorporated the
expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical
malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, defendant is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson
v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a plaintiff “is entitled to all
favorable inferences that may reasonably be derived from” an expert’s
declaration which must be liberally construed. 
(See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
Hershey-Weber argues Plaintiff
cannot establish that she breached the standard of care in her treatment and
care of Plaintiff, nor that an act or omission by Hershey-Weber caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. 

 
a.      Defendant’s Evidence           
 
Hershey-Weber relies on the Declaration
of Lynn Connolly, M.D. (“Connolly”), who is a physician licensed to practice medicine
in the State of California.  (Connolly
Decl. ¶ 1.) Connolly reviewed the following in order to craft the declaration
and form opinions: (a) Dr. Prokupek’s patient records for Plaintiff; (b)
Plaintiff’s Soma Surgery Center medical records; (c) Plaintiff’s St. Joseph’s
Hospital medical records; (d) Hershey-Weber’s deposition; (e) Plaintiff’s
deposition; (f) Defendant Prokupek’s deposition; and (g) Hershey-Weber’s Scope
of Practice agreement.  (Connolly Decl. ¶
4.)    
 
Connolly states, in pertinent
part:
 
5. Based on my education, training, and
experience, I am familiar with the standard of care required of nurse
practitioner in a gastroenterology clinic when treating patients like Pericles
Chamis. It is my opinion that at all times relevant, Jeanne K. Hershey-Weber
complied with the applicable standard of care in treating Mr. Chamis and was
not a cause or contributing factor in the injuries alleged by plaintiff. My
opinions are based on the following factors. 
 
a. The actions of Jeanne Hershey Weber, NP met
the standard of care when she advised the patient, Pericles Chamis, to
discontinue his Xarelto five days prior to undergoing the upper endoscopy
procedure on November 4, 2020. 
 
b. The standard of care for discontinuing Xarelto
prior to a surgical procedure depends on the severity of the patient’s risk for
bleeding and how long it takes for the Xarelto to be cleared from the body. In
this case, biopsing a polyp in the esophagus confers a higher risk of bleeding.
In addition, the patient’s creatine level was 1.5 (normal is 0.7-1.2) and his
glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 51 (normal > 60). These two abnormal
values are consistent with stage III chronic kidney disease and demonstrate a
moderate loss of kidney function. Since Xarelto is cleared through the kidney,
it would take a longer time than usual for Xarelto to be cleared from the body.
 
c. Based on the patient’s low GFR, elevated
creatinine level and his history of stage III kidney disease, it was within the
standard of care for Ms. Hershey-Weber to have recommended a five-day
discontinuation of the patient’s Xarelto prior to the November 4, 2020
endoscopy. 
 
d. In my opinion it was within the standard of
care for Ms. Hershey-Weber to have removed warts from the patient’s perianal
region on October 22, 2020. Ms. Hershey-Weber’s Scope of Practice Agreement
with Dr. Prokupek included removal of anal warts.
 
(Connolly Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
Hershey-Weber’s evidence is
sufficient to meet Hershey-Weber’s burden of persuasion/production of evidence
to show that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Hershey-Weber breached
the standard of care with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and Hershey-Weber’s
breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries.  Thus, Hershey-Weber has shifted
the burden of production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff advances the
Declaration of Elena Rubin, RN MSN-FNP-C (“Rubin”), who is a nurse
practitioner, licensed by the California Board of Registered Nursing, and
familiar with the standard of care required for nurse practitioners in Southern
California during the relevant time period, caring for and treating patients
similar to Plaintiff.  (Rubin Decl. ¶¶ 1-4.)
Rubin reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records from Dr. Prokupek, Soma Surgery
Center, Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, and Burbank Healthcare and Rehab,
the expert reports of Dr. Bickler and Dr. Brelian, and the deposition
transcripts of Hershey-Weber, Dr. Prokupek and Plaintiff.  (Rubin Decl. ¶ 5.)  Rubin declared, in relevant part:
 
t. Based on my education, training, and
experience, I am familiar with the standard of care required of nurse
practitioners in a gastroenterology clinic when treating patients like Pericles
Chamis. It is my opinion that Jeanne K. Hershey-Weber failed to comply with the
applicable standard of care in treating Mr. Chamis and was a cause or
contributing factor in the injuries alleged by plaintiff. My opinions are based
on the following factors. 
 
i. Accordingly, Hershey-Weber’s treatment
of Plaintiff without the supervision of a physician fell below the standard of
care. 
 
ii. Accordingly, Hershey-Weber’s
inaccurate documentation of treatment and recommendations to Plaintiff in
Plaintiff’s medical records fell below the standard of care. 
 
iii. After Dr. Prokupek was advised of
pending litigation regarding this matter, Plaintiff’s June 22, 2020 and October
14, 2020 medical records were unlawfully altered by Dr. Prokupek’s office to
delete language which would prove Plaintiff was improperly instructed on
stopping Xarelto. See, McCoy Decl., Ex. A, Prokupek Deposition Transcript at
68:1-15; 70:16-25; 73:6-23; 75:15-20; 101:4-8.
 
iv. Both Dr. Prokupek and Hershey-Weber
admitted that changing a patient’s medical record is crime. See, McCoy Decl.,
Ex. A, Prokupek Deposition Transcript at 69:15-17; Ex. B., Hershey-Weber
Deposition Transcript at 52:22-53:1. 
 
v. Accordingly, altering Plaintiff’s
medical records to indicate he had been properly advised on stopping his
Xarelto regimen fell below the standard of care. 
 
vi. On the date of Plaintiff’s November
2020 surgery, Plaintiff carried a number of significant co-morbidities
including severe complications related to stopping his Xarelto regimen for five
days. Plaintiff’s co-morbidities included a history of pulmonary embolism
requiring anticoagulation, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and
hypertension. These factors increased the risk of peri-procedure complications.
He was correctly assessed as an ASA risk category 3, indicating a patient with
severe systemic disease. Patients with ASA 3 status, especially with GERD and
asthma, are at high risk for aspiration and pulmonary complications from GI
procedures and are typically done in hospital-based GI suites. 
 
u. Accordingly, Hershey-Weber’s instruction to
Plaintiff to stop taking his Xarelto for 5-7 days, rather than a 2-day hold,
fell below the standard of care for nurse practitioners in Southern California
during the relevant time period, and was a significant contributing factor to
Plaintiff having a blood clot, and then suffering a stroke. In addition,
Hershey-Weber fell below the standard of care for nurse practitioners in
Southern California during the relevant time period because she did not defer
the instruction regarding holding the blood thinner to a medical doctor. She
further fell below the standard of care of nurse practitioners in Southern
California during the relevant time period, by failing to inform Mr. Chamis
about the dangerous and inherent consequences of him stopping Xarelto.
 
(Rubin
Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Hershey-Weber breached the standard of care by
advising Plaintiff to stop taking his Xarelto medication for 5-7 days prior to the
endoscopy procedure, and/or Hershey-Weber’s
breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries.  
 
2.      BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY
 
To prevail on a claim of
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach. (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A
physician has a fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the
patient’s decision when soliciting a patient’s consent to a medical procedure.
(Ibid.)
 
Although a treating physician
owes a fiduciary duty to disclose all material information when soliciting
a patient’s consent to a medical procedure, here, Hershey-Weber neither
participated in the endoscopy procedure, nor is Hershey-Weber a physician.  (UMF 2, 5.) 
In California, Nurse Practitioners are not authorized to treat patients
without a supervising physician.  (See
Plaintiff’s Opposition to Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts, fn.
1.)  Therefore, to the extent there was a
fiduciary duty to disclose the risks of going off his Xarelto medication and
undergoing the endoscopy procedure, that duty attached to Dr. Prokupek, not
Hershey-Weber.  (See Moore v. Regents
of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 133.)
 
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Hershey-Weber is a
physician or that Hershey-Weber participated in the endoscopy procedure, nor
has Plaintiff provided any legal authority for imposing a fiduciary duty of
disclosure on Hershey-Weber.
 
Therefore, the Court grants summary adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
3.      INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION
 
“Fraud is an intentional tort; it is the element of fraudulent intent,
or intent to deceive, that distinguishes it from actionable negligent
misrepresentation and from nonactionable innocent misrepresentation. It is the
element of intent which makes fraud actionable, irrespective of any contractual
or fiduciary duty one party might owe to the other.” (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
482.) And “The well-established common law elements of fraud which give rise to
the tort action for deceit[2]
are: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact (consisting of false
representation, concealment or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to deceive and induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance
on the misrepresentation; and (5) resulting damage.” (Id. at p. 481.)[3]
 
a.     
Hershey-Weber’s Evidence
 
Hershey-Weber has provided
evidence that (1) she advised Plaintiff to stop taking Xarelto for 5-7 days
prior to his endoscopy procedure (Exhibit F, pp. 80:12-81:21); (2) Plaintiff
admitted he stopped taking his Xarelto on October 30, 2020, 5 days before the
November 4, 2020 procedure (Exhibit A ¶¶ 81, 101); (3) Hershey-Weber discussed
the risks of excessive bleeding if Plaintiff were to undergo the endoscopy
procedure without stopping his Xarelto medication (Exhibit F at pp.
90:22-92:12); and (4) Plaintiff signed a consent to the endoscopy procedure,
which advised of the risks of allergic reaction to the sedation medication,
risks of perforating the colon, risk of bleeding, which increases if Plaintiff
is taking aspirin or blood thinners, and the risk of missing a lesion. (Ex. D
at p. 179.)
 
However, Hershey-Weber has not
provided any evidence that she warned Plaintiff of the risks of blood clots
and/or stroke if he stopped taking his blood thinner medication for 5-7 days
prior to the endoscopy procedure.
 
Therefore, Hershey-Weber has not met her burden of
persuasion/production of evidence to demonstrate that Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Hershey-Weber intentionally
concealed the risks of ceasing the Xarelto medication for 5 days prior to the
endoscopy procedure to induce Plaintiff into undergoing the procedure, which
Plaintiff did undergo and suffered permanent injuries from a resulting blood
clot and stroke.  
 
Having failed to meet her
burden of production and persuasion, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a disputed issue of material fact.
 
The Court denies summary
adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Hershey-Weber’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted
in part and denied in part.  Because a
non-treating nurse practitioner like Hershey-Weber does not owe a fiduciary
duty of disclosure (that duty belongs to the treating physician), the Court
grants summary adjudication as to Issue 2.
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the existence of triable issues of
material fact as to whether Hershey-Weber breached the standard of care with
respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and whether Hershey-Weber’s
breach of the standard of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries. Therefore, the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issue 1.  
 
Hershey-Weber failed to meet her burden of production/persuasion to
establish a prima facie showing that Plaintiff
will be unable to establish that Hershey-Weber intentionally concealed the
risks of going off Xarelto for 5 days prior to the endoscopy procedure to
induce Plaintiff into undergoing the procedure, which Plaintiff did undergo and
suffered permanent injuries from a resulting blood clot and stroke.  Therefore, the Court denies summary
adjudication as to Issue 3.
 
Because the Court denies summary adjudication as to Issues 1 and 3, Hershey-Weber’s
motion for summary judgment is also denied.
 
Hershey-Weber shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  February 15, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


