 Case Number:  23NWCV02233    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  C Francisco Castellon vs Cerritos Ford, Inc., et
al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02233
Hearing Date: February 06, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Defendant Cerritos Ford, Inc. Motion to
Compel Arbitration as to Plaintiff Francisco Castellon is GRANTED, the
proceeding is stayed pending result of the arbitration. 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a lemon law lawsuit. On or about August 5, 2022,
Plaintiff Francisco Castellon (“Plaintiff”) purchased a used 2014 Chevrolet
Corvette Stingray, VIN: 1G1YA2D7XE5105828 (“Vehicle”) from Defendant Cerritos
Ford, Inc. (“Defendant Ford”). (Complaint, ¶ 9.)
Legal Standard 
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate. Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.” The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether
a contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration
clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to
whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order
them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be
interpreted to cover the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿
“[A]
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at p. 1284.)¿
Discussion 
Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle from Defendant Ford and
executed the Contract on or around August 5, 2022. The Contract is a seven-page
document, with signature lines for the buyer in the bottom left of each of
page. (Holmerud Decl., Exh. A at pp. 1-7.) Plaintiff’s signature appears in
several places. (Id.)
The contract states: “You agree to the terms of this
contract. You confirm that before you signed this contract, we gave it to you,
and you were free to take it and review it. You acknowledge that you have read
all pages of this contract, including the arbitration provision on page 5,
before signing below. You confirm that you received a completely filled-in copy
when you signed it.” (Id.) 
Plaintiff’s signature appears on the signature line within
that box. (Id.) The referenced arbitration provision, appearing by
itself on page 1 of the Contract, reads in relevant part:
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE
BETWEEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. (Holmerud
Decl., Exh. A at p. 5, emphasis in original.)
The agreement goes on to define
“any dispute” as a dispute, “which arises out of or relates to your
credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.”  (Holmerud Decl., Exh. A at p. 5.)
In the agreement, Defendant Ford holds it will pay
Plaintiff’s filing, administration, service or case management fees and
Plaintiff’s arbitrator or hearing fees up to a maximum of $5000, unless the law
or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require Defendant to pay
more. (Id.)
Defendant Ford has shown that there is a valid arbitration
clause in the contract which has been signed by Plaintiff. 
The Court now turns its attention to the claims regarding
the public injunctive relief. 
Plaintiff argues that his Fifth Cause of Action
for violation of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act claim and prayer for
an injunction cannot be compelled to arbitration because an arbitration
agreement cannot waive the right to “public injunctive relief.” (McGill v.
Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 961.) However, “public injunctive
relief” is defined as a request that protects the public at large; the private
dispute at play must be merely incidental. (Id.) That is not the case
here. Plaintiff’s complaint is that Defendant Ford sold them a car without
disclosing a known condition of the vehicle. (Complaint ¶¶ 72, 73). The
injunction they seek amounts to an order that Defendant Ford comply with the
law. 
Accordingly, Defendant Ford has
established there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate.  The motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff.  The matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration.   