  Case Number:  21STCV10823    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




john christian lukes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
wells fargo bank, n.a.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV10823




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   7, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.,
Wells Fargo & Company, and Stephen R. Silk (joined by defendant Timothy J.
Sloan on May 14, 2024)   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff John Christian Lukes
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, joinder, opposition,[1]
and reply papers filed in connection with this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Wells Fargo & Company’s request for judicial
notice (1) as to Exhibits 28-38, without assuming or taking judicial notice of
the assertions contained in the subject news articles and press releases, and
(2) as to Exhibits 44-46.  (Evid. Code, §
452, subds. (c), (h); Seelig v. Infinity Broadcasting Corp. (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 798, 807, n. 5.)  
The court grants plaintiff
John Christian Lukes’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 1-3, 24-25,
and 27, without assuming or taking judicial notice of the assertions contained
in the subject articles and press releases. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h); Seelig, supra, 97
Cal.App.4th at p. 807, n. 5.)  The court
denies plaintiff John Christian Lukes’s request for judicial notice as to
Exhibit 4. 
The court denies plaintiff
John Christian Lukes’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 6-8 because (1)
those matters are not relevant to a material issue presented by this motion,
and (2) the court has sustained defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Wells
Fargo & Company’s evidentiary objections to those exhibits.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp.
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be
relevant to a material issue”].) 
The court denies plaintiff
John Christian Lukes’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit 5 because that
exhibit does not appear to be a proposition not reasonably subject to dispute
and capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (h).)  However, the
court has considered this evidence in ruling on the pending motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c) [“the
court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the
evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by the court”].)
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff John Christian Lukes’s evidentiary
objections, filed on July 11, 2024, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-7.
 
The court rules on defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Wells Fargo
& Company’s evidentiary objections, filed on August 2, 2024, as follows[2]:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 3, 8, 29-30, 39, 44-45, 48, 63-64,
66, 71-72, and 73-75.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-2, 4-7, 9-11, 25-26, 31-38, 40-43,
46-47, 49-51, 53-54, 56-62, 65, 67-68, 69-70, and 76.
            The court sustains Objections Nos.
12-19 as to Exhibits 12-18, to the extent that this evidence is being used to
show the existence of a contract, because the court has issued an evidentiary
sanction against plaintiff John Christian Lukes prohibiting him from
introducing into evidence any writings, as that term is defined by Evidence
Code section 250, “relating to: [¶] (1) any contract alleged in plaintiff John
Christian Lukes’s First Amended Complaint, filed January 24, 2022[.]”  (June 12, 2024 Order, p. 9:3-7.) 
The court overrules Objection Nos. 12 and 20-24 as to Exhibits 19, 20,
21, 22, and 23 because those exhibits (1) are not being introduced to prove the
truth of the matters stated, and (2) are not being introduced to prove that
there exists a contract between the parties in violation of the court’s order
imposing an evidence sanction against plaintiff John Christian Lukes, but to
establish the nature of the parties’ relationship.
The court sustains Objections Nos. 27 and 28 (as to paragraphs 17-18
of the declaration of plaintiff John
Christian Lukes) to the extent that plaintiff John Christian Lukes has
introduced this evidence to prove the truth of the matter stated (i.e., that John
R. Lukes and Jay Wm. Cervenka, d/b/a Cervenka & Lukes Mortgage Broker, had been defrauded of its finder’s fee by
defendants Timothy Sloan, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Wells Fargo &
Company).  The court overrules the
objections to the extent that plaintiff John Christian Lukes has introduced
this evidence for purposes other than to prove the truth of the matters stated
(e.g., to prove the date of his discovery of the alleged fraud). 
             The court sustains Objection No. 52 as to
“19**” and overrules the objection as to the remaining assertions in that
paragraph.
            The court sustains Objection No. 55
as to the following statements, to the extent that they are introduced to prove
the truth of the matter stated (i.e., that plaintiff John Christian Lukes
entered into an oral 1.20 percent finder’s fee agreement with the defendants in
this action):  “[Plaintiff John Christian
Lukes] even yelled out on the phone ‘we did it Dad ! I was able to get Sloan
and Wells Fargo to agree to a 1.20% for all of GE Capital’s Commercial Real
Estate Loans & Properties for Wells Fargo and for their clients and not
just for acquisitions but also for all the acquisition financing for its
clients that Wells Fargo and or Eastdil Secured introduced the deal to!  Oh My God – I can’t believe I actually did it
and I got Tim Sloan to enter into this contract on behalf of Wells Fargo for a
$85 Billion Portfolio with our firm!  Dad
did you believe I could really do it! We have finally broken into the
institutional real estate capital markets! . . . So, John told me at the time
that Mr. Sloan had entered into a finder’s fee agreement with CLMB which would
be owed if Wells Fargo purchased the GE Capital and its affiliates Commercial
Real Estate Loans and Commercial Real Estate Properties Asset Portfolios,
financed any part of the deal with another buyer, or introduced another buyer
to the opportunity that acquired any part of the deal.”  (Lukes Decl., ¶ 5 [internal emphasis
omitted].)  
LEGAL
STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo
& Company (together, “Wells Fargo Defendants”), and Stephen R. Silk
(“Silk”) move the court for an order granting summary judgment in their favor
and against plaintiff John Christian Lukes (“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint or, in the alternative, granting summary adjudication in
favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff on each remaining cause of action
alleged in the First Amended Complaint and Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages.[3]  
On May 14, 2024, defendant Timothy J. Sloan
(“Sloan”) filed a joinder to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, moving
the court for an order “grant[ing] summary judgment in favor of Mr. Sloan on
the fifth and sixth causes of action alleged in the First Amended Complaint . .
. .”  (Joinder, pp. 1:27-2:1.) 

1.     Dismissal
of Defendant Silk
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal,
requesting that the clerk dismiss defendant Silk with prejudice.  (Aug. 2, 2024 CIV-110, ¶ 1.)  The clerk dismissed defendant Silk pursuant
to Plaintiff’s request on August 5, 2024. 
Thus, the court finds that defendant Silk’s motion for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication is moot.
2.     First
Cause of Action for Breach of Oral Contract against Wells Fargo Defendants
(Issue Nos. 1, 7, 13-16)
“The elements of a breach of oral contract cause are: ‘(1)
existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a
result of the breach.’”  (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230.) 
Wells Fargo Defendants contend that the first cause of action for
breach of oral contract has no merit because (1) it is barred by the statute of
limitations; (2) the alleged oral contract violates the statute of frauds; (3)
no contract was formed between the parties since (i) Plaintiff was not
authorized to enter into the contract and (ii) there was no consideration; and
(4) Plaintiff was not the procuring cause of the subject acquisition and
therefore cannot establish the element of damages.
i.                
Affirmative Defense of Statute of
Limitations
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the first cause of action for breach of oral contract has no
merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that the affirmative defense of
statute of limitations bars this cause of action.
“An action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded
upon an instrument in writing” is governed by a two-year statute of
limitations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 339,
subd. (1).)  “A statute of limitations is
triggered, and thus the legislatively prescribed limitations period begins to
run, when a claim ‘accrues’—that is, when all elements of the claim have
occurred.”  (Piedmont Capital
Management, LLC v. McElfish (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 961, 968.)  “[T]he statute of limitations period for most
breach of contract claims begins to run when a party breaches that
contract.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff has alleged that Wells Fargo Defendants and nonparty
John R. Lukes and Jay Wm. Cervenka, d/b/a Cervenka & Lukes Mortgage Brokers
(“CLMB”) entered into an oral finder’s fee agreement whereby Wells Fargo
Defendants would pay a finder’s fee to CLMB “at the time of closing of any
portion of the Portfolio through escrow.” 
(FAC ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff has also
alleged that (1) although he became aware of Wells Fargo Defendants’ activities
regarding the Portfolio in March or April 2015 upon reading an article in the
Wall Street Journal (FAC ¶ 26), he was told, and relied on the representations
made by, defendants Silk and Sloan that the 2015 acquisition was unrelated to
the parties’ contract (FAC ¶ 31), and (2) in March 2020, Plaintiff received a
phone call from James Quigley, a recently-resigned member of Wells Fargo
Defendants’ Board of Directors, who indicated that Wells Fargo Defendants
wrongfully refused to pay CLMB its finder’s fees related to the Portfolio (FAC
¶ 35), therefore putting Plaintiff on notice as to the tortious activity by the
defendants (FAC ¶ 36) at that time.
Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted evidence showing that (1)
Plaintiff testified that, pursuant to the terms of the parties’ oral contract, CLMB
was “supposed to be paid at the close of escrow[;]” (2) in April 2015, General
Electric Company, via GE Capital Corporation (“GE Capital”), agreed to sell the
substantial majority of its commercial real estate asset and debt portfolio to
Blackstone for approximately $23 billion (the “GE Transaction”); (3)
concurrently, Blackstone and Wells Fargo Defendants entered into an agreement,
pursuant to which Wells Fargo Defendants would become the purchaser of a
portion of the GE Capital portfolio and would provide acquisition financing to
Blackstone on another portion thereof; (4) Blackstone sought out Wells Fargo
Defendants to participate in the GE Transaction in this capacity; and     (5)  Wells Fargo Defendants closed on the “GE
Transaction” by October 2015.  (Def.
Compendium of Evidence (“Def. COE”), Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., pp. 102:22-103:5,
119:2-3 [the finder’s fee “was to be paid upon closing”]; Undisputed Material
Fact (“UMF”) No. 86; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶ 5; Def. COE, Tab. B, Sloan
Decl., ¶ 24.)  
Thus, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted evidence showing that,
if no tolling applies, the statute of limitations was triggered by October
2015, i.e., the date on which Wells Fargo Defendants breached the parties’
alleged oral contract by failing to pay to CLMB the finder’s fee upon the
closing of the GE Transaction.  (FAC ¶
14; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶ 5; Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 24; Piedmont
Capital Management, LLC, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at p. 968.)  Plaintiff filed this action on March 19, 2021,
more than two years after the date of the alleged breach of contract.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. (1).) 
As to Plaintiff’s pleading of the delayed discovery rule based on
his allegation that, in March 2020, he received a phone call from Wells Fargo
Defendants’ James Quigley (“Quigley”), Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted
the deposition transcript of Quigley. 
Quigley testified that (1) he has never spoken with Plaintiff; (2) he
has never tried to call Plaintiff; (3) he had not met Plaintiff “until two
minutes” prior; (4) he does not recognize the phone number that Plaintiff
claims Quigley used to call him; and (5) he did not appear at the Pasadena
courthouse on February 19, 2020 and sit next to Plaintiff while he was waiting
for a hearing in his divorce case to be called because Quigley was not in Los
Angeles, California between February 12, 2020 and February 26, 2020.  (Def. COE Ex. 24, Quigley Dep., pp. 9:9-19,
10:20-22, 15:15-25 [Quigley does not recognize, and has never used, the phone
number 310-774-3869], 18:12-24, 19:6-18]; UMF Nos. 141 [Plaintiff “alleges
Quigley called him from the phone number 310-774-3869], 145]; Def. COE, Ex. 12,
Pl. Amended Response to Special Interrogatory No. 35 [listing 310-774-3869 as
the phone number from which Quigley called Plaintiff].)  Further, as to the phone number from which
Plaintiff claims Quigley called him, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted evidence
showing that the phone number is associated with a landline phone belonging to
Keller Williams.  (Def. COE, Ex. 48,
Accurint Report, p. 1.) 
Thus, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their
burden to submit evidence showing that the allegations on which Plaintiff has
based his delayed discovery of Wells Fargo Defendants’ alleged breach of
contract did not occur as alleged and therefore do not have merit.  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 797, 807 [“An important exception to the general rule of accrual is
the ‘discovery rule,’ which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the
plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action[,]” the
latter of which occurs when the plaintiff “‘has reason at least to suspect a
factual basis for its elements’”].)  
Defendant has also submitted evidence showing that Plaintiff
cannot show that fraudulent concealment tolled his claims because (1) Plaintiff
has alleged that defendants Sloan and Silk fraudulently represented to
Plaintiff that the GE Transaction was independent of and unrelated to the
parties’ contract (FAC ¶¶ 31, 33-34, 43), thereby tolling the statute of
limitations for his claims, and (2) Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted
evidence showing that those representations were true.  (Def. COE, Tab A, Silk Decl., ¶¶ 17 [“The GE
Transaction was formed and closed as a direct result of the work of Blackstone,
Wells Fargo and GE and their advisors, including Eastdil Secured”], 18; Def.
COE Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 25 [“Before the call from Mr. Gray in March 2015,
Wells Fargo had taken no action with respect to the commercial real estate
assert and debt portfolio that GE Capital agreed to sell in April 2015.  The 2015 GE [T]ransaction was completely
unrelated to my May 27, 2010 meeting with” Plaintiff].)
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the statute of limitations
bars this cause of action.
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states that
(1) on March 24, 2020, he received a call from Quigley, and (2) during that
phone call, Quigley informed Plaintiff that CLMB had been wrongfully defrauded
of its finder’s fee by Sloan and Wells Fargo Defendants.    (Pl.
Compendium of Evidence (“Pl. COE”), Ex. A, Pl. Decl., ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff has also submitted a copy of his
T-Mobile phone bill from the billing period of March 14, 2020 through April 13,
2020, which shows that Plaintiff received an incoming call from the number
310-774-3869.  (Pl. COE, Ex. 35, p. 5.)  Plaintiff also states that he has “called that
number multiple times and no one from Keller Williams ever answered the
phone.”  (Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl. Decl., ¶
28.)  
Further, although Plaintiff concedes that he had knowledge of
Wells Fargo Defendants’ 2015 closing of the GE Transaction, he has stated that
(1) he asked Sloan about the finder’s fee, who informed Plaintiff that
Blackstone was the procuring cause of the relevant information, not Plaintiff
or CLMB, and (2) he “conducted some due diligence,” including by reading
articles about the GE Transaction and reviewing SEC filings, “but such
information did not dispel Sloan’s misrepresentation to [Plaintiff] that Wells
Fargo had learned about the GE Capital investment opportunity from Blackstone.”  (Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl. Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.)
Thus, Plaintiff has submitted evidence sufficient to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to his March 2020 discovery of
Wells Fargo Defendants’ breach of their oral agreement and this cause of action,
such that the discovery rule postponed accrual of this cause of action until
that time, by submitting evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to (1) his discovery of the information on March 24, 2020, and (2) his
inability to have made earlier discovery of the cause of action despite his reasonable
diligence (i.e., because his preliminary investigation “did not dispel Sloan’s”
representations as to the procuring cause of the GE Transaction).  (Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp.
807, 808.) 
The court notes that Wells Fargo Defendants have asserted that
Plaintiff admitted that, by April 2015, he had evidence of Wells Fargo
Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing and advised CLMB to “definitely file something
to assert their rights.”  (Mot., pp.
8:20-22, 14:11-13.)  The court disagrees
with that interpretation of Plaintiff’s testimony.  
During his deposition, Plaintiff was asked whether “Mr. Cervenka
said that he wanted to sue Wells Fargo in 2015.”  (Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., p. 151:9-12.)  In response thereto, Plaintiff testified that
(1) Cervenka wanted to know whether Plaintiff felt as if CLMB should file a
lawsuit against Wells Fargo Defendants; (2) Plaintiff stated that, at that
point, he was “not seeing that there[ was] a claim” but informed Cervenka that
he would do his due diligence; and (3) he stated that he would “get back to” Cervenka
if he found “evidence that [they] do have a claim.”  (Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., pp. 151:16-153:1.)  Directly thereafter, Plaintiff testified as
follows:  “Because we do have evidence
and we should definitely file something to assert our rights.”  (Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., p. 153:1-3.)  Thus, the statements made by Plaintiff in his
deposition are internally inconsistent, such that Plaintiff’s statement that
they did “have evidence” does not show, as a matter of law, that Plaintiff
discovered the facts giving rise to this cause of action as of April 2015.  
Moreover, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have not
shown, as a matter of law, that CLMB was put on inquiry notice of their alleged
wrongdoings in 2015 so as to trigger the discovery rule in light of the facts
set forth in Plaintiff’s declaration, which shows a triable issue of material
fact as to whether CLMB and Plaintiff had the opportunity to obtain knowledge
of their injuries.  (Fox, supra,
35 Cal.4th at pp. 807-808 [“The discovery rule only delays accrual until the
plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action[,]” and a
plaintiff is charged with presumptive knowledge of an injury if they have
information of circumstances to put them on inquiry or have the opportunity to
obtain knowledge from sources open to their investigation]; Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl.
Decl., ¶ 16.) 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether this cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations.
ii.              
Affirmative Defense of Statute of Frauds
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the first cause of action for breach of oral contract has no
merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that the affirmative defense of
the statute of frauds bars this cause of action.
“The statute of frauds declares several types of agreements
‘invalid’ unless ‘they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and
subscribed by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent.’”  (Westside Estate Agency, Inc. v. Randall (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th 317, 323.)  The statute of
frauds applies to, inter alia, agreements “authorizing or employing an
agent, broker, or any other person to purchase or sell real estate, or to lease
real estate for a longer period than one year, or to procure, introduce, or
find a purchaser or seller of real estate or a lessee or lessor of real estate
where the lease is for a longer period than one year, for compensation or a
commission[,]” and agreements “by a purchaser of real property to pay an
indebtedness secured by a mortgage or deed of trust upon the property
purchased, unless assumption of the indebtedness by the purchaser is
specifically provided for in the conveyance of the property.”  (Civ. Code, § 1624, subds. (a)(4), (a)(6).)  The statute of frauds applies to finder’s fee
agreements.  (Tenzer v. Superscope,
Inc. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 18, 25-26.)  However,
“[i]t does not reach contracts employing persons, even brokers, merely to
provide information about real estate or to search for suitable locations to
purchase, except when those functions are ‘incidental’ to one of the purposes
otherwise covered by the statute of frauds.” 
(Westside Estate Agency, Inc., supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at p.
324.) 
Wells Fargo Defendants have presented evidence showing that (1)
Plaintiff testified that the finder’s fee would apply only to the commercial
real estate loans and commercial real estate properties and/or financings of
them because CLMB’s license is limited to real estate, and (2) the GE
Transaction required GE Capital to sell the substantial majority of its
commercial real estate asset and debt portfolio to Blackstone.  (UMF No. 28; Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., p.
119:10-20; Def. COE, Tab A, Silk Decl., ¶ 9; Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 23;
Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶ 5.)  It is
undisputed that the finder’s fee agreement “was never put into writing and
signed.”  (UMF No. 52.)
The court finds that this evidence shows that the oral finder’s
fee agreement, on which this cause of action is based, is barred by the statute
of frauds because (1) it is an agreement authorizing a broker (i.e., CLMB) to
find or introduce a purchaser (i.e., Wells Fargo Defendants) of real estate
(i.e., the commercial real estate assets and debts in the GE Transaction) for
compensation or commission, and (2) neither the finder’s fee agreement nor some
note or memorandum thereof are in writing and subscribed by the party to be
charged or the party’s agent.  (UMF Nos.
1 [CLMB is a mortgage brokerage licensed by the California Department of Real
Estate], 52 [no written agreement was executed]; Civ. Code, § 1624, subds.
(a)(4), (a)(6).) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the alleged oral agreement
violated the statute of frauds. 
As set forth above, the statute of frauds does not apply to contracts
employing any person “merely to provide information about real estate . . . ,
except when those functions are ‘incidental’ to one of the purposes otherwise
covered by the statute of frauds.”  (Westside,
supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at p. 324.)  Plaintiff has stated, in his declaration, that
the finder’s fee agreement between Plaintiff and Wells Fargo Defendants obligated
Plaintiff to offer to Sloan “the non-public information” that all of the Commercial
Real Estate Loans and Properties Asset Portfolios belonging to GE Capital and
its affiliates were available for acquisition. 
(Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl. Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff has also submitted the declarations of Richard Stearns and Lance
Nowak, in which they have attested that they desired to solicit for sale the
non-public information about GE Capital, further supporting Plaintiff’s
position that the primary function of the finder’s fee agreement was to merely
provide information about the sale of the subject portfolio.  (Pl. COE, Ex. C, Stearns Decl., ¶ 3; Pl. COE,
Ex. D, Nowak Decl., ¶ 3.)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has submitted evidence
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether (1) the
finder’s fee agreement evidences a contract “merely to provide information
about real estate” (i.e., the asset and debt portfolios for sale) to Wells
Fargo Defendants, and (2) the delivery of that information was “‘incidental’”
to (rather than the primary function of) Wells Fargo Defendants’ acquisition of
the real estate, such that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to whether the statute of frauds bars this
cause of action.  (Westside, supra,
6 Cal.App.5th at p. 324.)
iii.            
Element of the Existence of a Contract
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the first cause of action for breach of oral contract has no
merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that an element of the cause of
action (the existence of a contract) cannot be established.  
First, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted the declaration of
defendant Sloan, in which Sloan states that he “never entered into, or agreed
to enter into, a contract on Wells Fargo’s behalf with CLMB or
[Plaintiff].”  (UMF No. 40; Def. COE, Tab
B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 8.)
Second, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted the deposition
transcript of Jay Cervenka (“Cervenka”), one of two partners of CLMB, in which
Cervenka testified that (1) he was not “aware of” any finder’s fee agreement
entered into between CLMB and Wells Fargo Defendants, (2) Plaintiff never told
him that he had entered into a finder’s fee agreement with Wells Fargo
Defendants on CLMB’s behalf, (3) he believed that CLMB did not enter into any
contracts with Wells Fargo Defendants as a result of the 2010 meeting between
Plaintiff and Sloan, and (4) Plaintiff was not authorized to enter into a
finder’s fee agreement on behalf of CLMB. 
(UMF No. 2 [“CLMB was a general partnership between two partners with a
50/50 interest – Jay W. Cervenka . . . and John R. Lukes . . . .”]; Def. COE,
Ex. 19, Cervenka Dep., pp. 9:25-11:8, 14:13-23 [Plaintiff was required to get
approval from Cervenka for transactions made on behalf of CLMB], 14:24-15:10
[Cervenka did not authorize Plaintiff to enter into any finder’s fee contracts
with Wells Fargo Defendants], 20:24-21:5.) 
Wells Fargo Defendants have also submitted the deposition transcript of
Plaintiff, in which Plaintiff agreed that he would “have needed authority from
both [his] father [(i.e., John R. Lukes (“Lukes”)] and [his] uncle [(i.e.,
Cervenka)] to enter into any contracts on CLMB’s behalf.”  (Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., p. 93:12-15.) 
Thus, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their
burden to show that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of an underlying
contract because they have submitted evidence showing that (1) Sloan and Cervenka,
one of the two equal partners of CLMB, denied the existence thereof, and (2)
Plaintiff did not have the authority to enter into the alleged contract. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the existence of a contract between
the parties. 
First, Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states
that (1) “Sloan orally agreed to the finder’s fee and assured [him] that
[Sloan] would put the agreement in writing[,]” and (2) when he met with Sloan
on May 27, 2010, he was acting in his capacity as an agent of CLMB when he
entered into an oral finder’s fee agreement with Sloan, who acted on behalf of
Wells Fargo Defendants.  (Pl. COE, Ex. A,
Pl. Decl., ¶¶ 10, 33.) 
Second, Plaintiff has submitted the declarations of Richard
Stearns and Lance Nowak, in which they state that, in late May to mid-June
2010, they were on a conference call with each other, Plaintiff, and Sloan, during
“which Mr. Sloan agreed that Wells Fargo did have a finder’s fee agreement with
CLMB for 1.20%.”  (Pl. COE, Ex. C,
Stearns Decl., ¶ 8; Pl. COE, Ex. D, Nowak Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Third, Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of Lukes, in which
Lukes states that (1) he and Cervenka formed CLMB together; (2) Cervenka and
Lukes were equal 50/50 partners, such that “either of [them] could bind the
partnership to an agreement with a third party without consent of the other[;]”
and (3) Plaintiff “had prior authority from both [Lukes] and [Cervenka] to
enter into the finder’s fee agreement with Sloan and Wells Fargo [Defendants]
on May 27, 2010 on behalf of CLMB.”  (Pl.
COE, Ex. B, Lukes Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 6.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has submitted evidence that
shows a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether (1) an oral
agreement existed between CLMB and Wells Fargo Defendants, executed by their
respective agents, Plaintiff and Sloan, on May 27, 2010, and (2) Plaintiff had
authority to enter into such an agreement on behalf of CLMB.
The court notes that Wells Fargo Defendants have also argued that
there was no consideration supporting the alleged contract because (1)
Plaintiff and CLMB “contributed nothing of value” since (i) Dan McNamara (“McNamara”)
testified that he did not provide the subject information, and (ii) the
information was public and nonexclusive, and (2) neither Plaintiff nor CLMB
acted to their detriment by allegedly performing under the contract.  (San Luis Obispo Local Agency Formation
Commission v. City of Pismo Beach (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 595, 600 [“A
contract requires consideration. 
[Citation.]  Consideration
consists of either a benefit to the promisor or a detriment to the promisee”].)
 The court finds that Wells Fargo
Defendants have not met their burden to show that Plaintiff cannot establish
the existence of a contract based on lack of consideration.
The court acknowledges that Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted
the testimony of McNamara, in which he denies having given the information
about GE Capital to Plaintiff.  (Def. COE
Ex. 22, McNamara Dep., pp. 54:17-55:6.)  However,
Wells Fargo Defendants did not show that, even if McNamara did not provide this
information to Plaintiff, that the statements made by Plaintiff in his May 27,
2010 meeting with Sloan were not of value to Wells Fargo Defendants, or that
Plaintiff could not have learned this information through other sources, such
that the oral agreement was not supported by consideration.[4]  
Moreover, the articles submitted by Wells Fargo Defendants do not
show that the subject information was public. 
The October 16, 2009 article, while stating that General Electric’s $84
billion portfolio “remain[ed] a worry for investors” and that General Electric
“ha[d] been working to shrink its huge finance arm,” does not publish all the
information regarding the availability of the acquisition of the portfolio that
was the subject of the GE Transaction.  (RJN
Ex. 27, pp. 1, 3.)  Moreover, the Wall
Street Journal article was published on June 7, 2010, i.e., after the date on
which Plaintiff is alleged to have disclosed the information to Sloan and Wells
Fargo Defendants, such that this article does not show that the information was
“public” at that time.  (FAC ¶ 13.)  The court further notes that Wells Fargo
Defendants did not cite evidence showing that Plaintiff and CLMB, in disclosing
potentially non-public information to Sloan, did not act to their
detriment.  Thus, Wells Fargo Defendants
did not meet their burden of producing evidence to show that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of the existence of a contract on the ground that there
was inadequate or no consideration supporting the alleged agreement.
iv.            
Element of Damages
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the first cause of action for breach of oral contract has no
merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that an element of the cause of
action (Plaintiff’s entitlement to damages) cannot be established. 
“In order [for a finder] to earn a commission each must accomplish
the purpose for which his services were engaged, and if a transaction is had
with a prospect they produce, it must be shown, in order to earn a commission,
that the services were a procuring cause of that transaction.”  (Pass v. Industrial Asphalt of Cal., Inc. (1966)
239 Cal.App.2d 776, 781.)  “This
fundamental prerequisite to the earning of a commission is recognized in the
finder’s cases.”  (Id. at p. 782; Zalk
v. General Exploration Co. (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 786, 792 [finder is
entitled to finder’s fee if his or her services “were the procuring cause of
the acquisition in that they set in motion a chain of events which led without
material interruption to the acquisition”].) 
Here, it is undisputed that “[t]he harm [Plaintiff] alleges for every
cause of action is [the] loss of CLMB’s finder’s fee—i.e., over $332 million in
damages for the purported finder’s fee.” 
(UMF NO. 172.)
Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted the following evidence
showing that Blackstone, and not Plaintiff or CLMB, was the procuring cause of
Wells Fargo Defendants’ entering into the GE Transaction.  
Jonathan Gray (“Gray”), the President and Chief Operating Officer
of Blackstone, attests in his declaration that (1) in April 2015, GE Capital
agreed to sell the substantial majority of its commercial real estate asset and
debt portfolio to Blackstone for $23 billion; (2) concurrently with
Blackstone’s agreement to buy those assets, Blackstone and Wells Fargo
Defendants entered into an agreement whereby Wells Fargo Defendants would
become the purchaser of a portion of GE Capital’s portfolio and would provide
Blackstone acquisition financing on another portion; (3) “Blackstone sought out
Wells Fargo to participate in the GE Transaction in this capacity” following a
meeting that Gray attended at General Electric’s offices in March 2015, during
which Gray suggested Wells Fargo as a finance partner for Blackstone because of
their preexisting relationship; (4) immediately after the meeting, Gray called
Sloan about the GE Transaction, during which Sloan indicated Wells Fargo Defendants’
interest in the acquisition; and (5) immediately thereafter, General Electric,
Blackstone, and Wells Fargo Defendants began working on the details of the GE
Transaction.  (Def. COE, Tab C, Gray
Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5, 12, 14-16.)  Gray further
attests that he does not know Plaintiff, any personnel at CLMB, Lance Nowak,
Richard Stearns, or McNamara.  (Id.
at ¶ 20.) 
Defendant Sloan has confirmed, in his declaration, that “[t]he GE
Transaction was brought to Wells Fargo [Defendants] by Blackstone.”  (Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 21.)  Sloan has further stated that, before Gray
called him in March 2015, Wells Fargo Defendants “had taken no action with
respect to the commercial real estate asset and debt portfolio that GE Capital
agreed to sell in 2015” and that “[t]he 2015 GE transaction was completely
unrelated to [his] May 27, 2010 meeting with” Plaintiff.  (Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 25.)
Thus, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that
Plaintiff was not the “procuring cause” of the GE Transaction, such that Wells
Fargo Defendants were not required to pay Plaintiff a finder’s fee and
therefore have shown that Plaintiff is not entitled to recover those damages from
Wells Fargo Defendants.  (Zalk, supra,
105 Cal.App.3d at p. 792.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of his entitlement to
damages. 
Plaintiff has not submitted competent, admissible evidence showing
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he was the procuring
cause of the GE Transaction executed by Wells Fargo Defendants, and therefore
has not shown that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he is
entitled to recover damages in the form of the finder’s fee.  The court has sustained Wells Fargo
Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the statements set forth in Plaintiff’s
declaration recounting the conversation between Plaintiff and Quigley to the
extent that they were offered to prove the truth of the matters stated, and
therefore cannot support Plaintiff’s position that Wells Fargo Defendants
“defrauded” him.  Plaintiff has not
presented admissible evidence showing a triable issue of material fact exists as
to (1) whether Wells Fargo Defendants and Blackstone could have only known the
details of the GE Transaction based on Plaintiff’s May 27, 2010 conversation
with Sloan, or (2) whether Blackstone was the procuring cause of the GE
Transaction and solicited Wells Fargo Defendants as its finance partner.
The court notes that Plaintiff has argued that a public statement
made by Wells Fargo Defendants’ Chief Executive Officer that, pursuant to the
GE Transaction, “Blackstone took the mezzanine and the things that didn’t fit
for [Wells Fargo Defendants’] bank portfolio, and [Wells Fargo Defendants]
financed some of those, and put the rest in [their] portfolio” shows that Wells
Fargo Defendants gave to Blackstone the “leftovers” of the GE Transaction,
which “makes no sense if Blackstone truly brought Wells Fargo [Defendants] into
the deal as Defendants contend.”  (Opp.,
p. 4:12-20.)  The court finds that this evidence
is insufficient to show the existence or inference of a triable issue of
material fact exists as to whether Blackstone was the procuring cause of the GE
Transaction.  (Howard v. Accor
Management US, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 130, 135 [courts “draw
inferences from evidence, not possibilities”]; Montague v. AMN Healthcare,
Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1525 [“speculative inferences do not
raise a triable issue of fact”].) 
v.              
Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1) Wells
Fargo Defendants have met their burden to show that the first cause of action
has no merit because they have shown that Plaintiff cannot establish that Wells
Fargo Defendants owe Plaintiff, as assignee of CLMB’s rights, a finder’s fee,
such that they have shown that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of
damages, and (2) Plaintiff did not meet his burden to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to that element.
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of oral contract.
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract against Wells Fargo
Defendants (Issue Nos. 2, 8, 13-16)
“‘A cause of action for breach of implied contract has the same
elements as does a cause of action for breach of contract, except that the
promise is not expressed in words but is implied from the promisor’s
conduct.’”  (Aton Center, Inc., supra,
93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1230.)  “The
elements of a breach of contract claim are that a contract was formed; that the
plaintiff did everything required by the contract; that the defendant did not
do something required by the contract; and that the plaintiff was harmed as a
result.”  (CSAA Ins. Exchange v.
Hodroj (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 272, 276.) 
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the third cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact
contract has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown, for the
reasons set forth in connection with the first cause of action for breach of
oral contract, which is based on the same set of facts, that (1) the
affirmative defense of the two-year statute of limitations bars this cause of
action, (2) the alleged implied-in-fact contract violates the statute of frauds,
and (3) Plaintiff cannot establish the element of the existence of a contract.  (UMF No. 176 [Plaintiff “alleges a breach of
implied-in-fact contract that arises out of the same alleged oral finder’s fee
contract between CLMB and Wells Fargo”].)
The court finds, for the reasons set forth in connection with the
court’s ruling on the first cause of action for breach of oral contract, that
Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to (1) whether he discovered the facts supporting this cause of action in
March 2020, such that this cause of action is not barred by the statute of
limitations, (2) whether the alleged oral agreement is barred by the statute of
frauds, and (3) the element of the existence of a contract.
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the third cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact contract
has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that an element of the
cause of action (Plaintiff’s entitlement to damages) cannot be established for
the same reasons as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the
first cause of action for breach of oral contract (i.e., that Plaintiff was not
the procuring cause of the GE Transaction and therefore is not entitled to a
finder’s fee).  (FAC ¶¶ 53-56 [alleging
breach of implied-in-fact finder’s fee agreement]; UMF No. 176 [Plaintiff
“alleges a breach of implied-in-fact contract that arises out of the same
alleged oral finder’s fee contract between CLMB and Wells Fargo”]; Zalk,
supra, 105 Cal.App.3d at p. 792; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5,
12, 14-16; Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶¶ 21, 25.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of damages for the
same reasons set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the first cause
of action for breach of oral contract.  
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact
contract.
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Against
Wells Fargo Defendants (Issue Nos. 3, 9, 13-16)
“The [implied] covenant of good faith and fair dealing [is]
implied by law in every contract. 
[Citation.]  The covenant is read
into contracts and functions as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party’s rights to the benefits of the contract. 
[Citation.]  The covenant also
requires each party to do everything the contract presupposes the party will do
to accomplish the agreement’s purposes.” 
(Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted]
[emphasis in original].) 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that this cause of action
appears to be based on the same allegations as the first and third causes of action
for breach of contract.  (FAC ¶¶ 61
[alleging that Wells Fargo Defendants “unfairly interfered with [CLMB’s] rights
to receive benefits of the” finder’s fee agreement and did not act in good
faith with respect thereto], 35, 41 [alleging that Wells Fargo Defendants did
not pay the finder’s fee as required].) 
Thus, this cause of action “is superfluous.  ‘If the allegations do not go beyond the
statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion
contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no
additional claim is actually stated.’” 
(Levy v. Only Cremations for Pets, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th
203, 215 [emphasis in original].)  The
court therefore finds that the arguments presented by Wells Fargo Defendants as
to the first and third causes of action apply equally to this cause of action.
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the fourth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have
shown, for the reasons set forth in connection with the first cause of action
for breach of oral contract, that (1) the affirmative defense of the two-year
statute of limitations bars this cause of action, (2) the alleged contract
violates the statute of frauds, and (3) Plaintiff cannot establish the element
of the existence of a contract.  
The court finds, for the reasons set forth in connection with the
first cause of action for breach of oral contract, that Plaintiff has met his
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to (1) whether
he discovered the facts supporting this cause of action in March 2020, such
that this cause of action is not barred by the statute of limitations, (2)
whether the alleged oral agreement is barred by the statute of frauds, and (3)
the element of the existence of a contract.
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the fourth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have
shown that an element of the cause of action (Plaintiff’s entitlement to
damages) cannot be established for the same reasons as set forth in connection
with the court’s ruling on the first cause of action for breach of oral
contract (i.e., that Plaintiff was not the procuring cause of the GE
Transaction and therefore is not entitled to a finder’s fee).  (FAC ¶¶ 53-56 [alleging breach of
implied-in-fact finder’s fee agreement]; UMF No. 176 [Plaintiff “alleges a
breach of implied-in-fact contract that arises out of the same alleged oral
finder’s fee contract between CLMB and Wells Fargo”]; Zalk, supra,
105 Cal.App.3d at p. 792; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5, 12, 14-16; Def.
COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶¶ 21, 25.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of damages for the
same reasons set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the first cause
of action for breach of oral contract.  
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
5.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraud – False Promise Against Wells Fargo Defendants and
Defendant Sloan (Issues Nos. 5, 11, 17)
“Promissory fraud is a subspecies of fraud, and an action may lie
where a defendant fraudulently induces the plaintiff to enter into a contract,
by making promises he does not intend to keep.” 
(Missakian v. Amusement Industry, Inc. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 630,
653.) “‘[P]romissory fraud requires proof of “(1) a promise made regarding a
material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the
intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive
or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by
the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6)
resulting damage to the promise[e].” 
[Citation.]’”  (Id. at p.
654.) 
The court finds Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden of
showing that the fifth cause of action for fraud – false promise has no merit
because they have shown that (1) the affirmative defense of the three-year
statute of limitations bars this cause of action, and (2) the alleged oral
promise violates the statute of frauds. 
First, as set forth above, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted
evidence showing that (1) Plaintiff testified that CLMB was, pursuant to the
terms of the parties’ oral contract, “supposed to be paid at the close of
escrow[;]” (2) the GE Transaction closed on October 2015; and (3) Plaintiff
read about the GE Transaction in the Wall Street Journal in April 2015, at
which time Plaintiff discovered that Wells Fargo Defendants were buying and
financing a portfolio belonging to GE Capital. 
(Def. COE, Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., pp. 102:22-103:5; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray
Decl., ¶ 5; UMF Nos. 86, 88.)  Thus,
Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted evidence showing that the statute of
limitations was triggered by April 2015, i.e., the date on which Plaintiff read
the article regarding the GE Transaction. 
Plaintiff filed this action on March 19, 2021, more than three years
after that date.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
338, subd. (d) [“An action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake” is
three years, which “is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake”].) 
Second, as set forth above, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted
evidence showing that the alleged agreement (here, characterized as the false
promise (FAC ¶ 65)) violates the statute of frauds because (1) the promise to
pay a finder’s fee to CLMB in exchange for information about the subject
portfolio concerned the sale of commercial real estate asset and debt portfolio
to Blackstone, and (2) the finder’s fee agreement “was never put into writing
and signed.”  (UMF Nos. 28, 52; Def. COE,
Ex. 20, Pl. Dep., p. 119:10-20; Def. COE, Tab A, Silk Decl., ¶ 9; Def. COE, Tab
B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 23; Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶ 5; Civ. Code, § 1624,
subds. (a)(4), (a)(6).) 
The court finds, as set forth above, that Plaintiff has met his
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to (1) his
discovery “of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake” in March 2020, such
that the filing of this action on March 19, 2021 is timely and not barred by
the statute of limitations, and (2) whether the alleged agreement (and promise
to pay the finder’s fee) was a contract merely to provide information about
real estate, such that it falls outside the scope of the statute of
frauds.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd.
(d); Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl. Decl., ¶¶ 8, 15-16; Fox, supra, 35
Cal.4th at pp. 807, 808; Westside, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at p.
324.) 
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have not met their burden
of showing that the fifth cause of action for fraud - false promise has no
merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have not shown that (1) the economic loss
rule bars this cause of action, and (2) Plaintiff cannot establish the elements
of this cause of action.     
First, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have not shown
that this cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.
“Not all tort claims for monetary losses between contractual
parties are barred by the economic loss rule. 
But such claims are barred when they arise from – or are not independent
of – the parties’ underlying contracts.” 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 903, 923.)  Thus, “[t]ort damages have been permitted in
contract cases . . . where the contract was fraudulently induced.”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543, 552.)  Although Plaintiff has
conceded that the harm he alleges as to every cause of action consists of the
lost finder’s fee, Wells Fargo Defendants have not presented argument showing
that the alleged false promise made by Sloan on behalf of Wells Fargo
Defendants, arises from or is not independent of the underlying contract.  Instead, it appears that this cause of action
arises from conduct that is intentional and intended to harm.  (Ibid. [in such a case, “the duty that
gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract
or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm”]; UMF
No. 172.) 
Second, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have not shown
that Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of this cause of action.
Wells Fargo Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s allegation that
his false promise claim is based on nonperformance under the agreement “alone
defeats his fraud claims as pled against all Defendants.”  (Mot., p. 28:11.)  The court disagrees.  Wells Fargo Defendants have not presented
argument demonstrating that Plaintiff’s allegation that they did not perform
under the finder’s fee agreement shows that Plaintiff cannot establish any
element of this cause of action. 
Specifically, this assertion does not show that Plaintiff cannot
establish fraudulent intent not to perform the alleged promise, and Wells Fargo
Defendants have not pointed to any evidence (e.g., factually devoid discovery
responses) to argue that Plaintiff cannot present evidence to show such an
element.  (Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. (1985)
39 Cal.3d 18, 30 [while something more than nonperformance is required to prove
the intent to perform his promise, fraudulent intent may be established by
circumstantial evidence].) 
Third, the court notes Wells Fargo Defendants contend that
Plaintiff cannot establish the element of reliance because Cervenka, of CLMB,
testified that he did not rely on any of those statements.  (Mot., p. 29:4-9.)  However, the material facts that Wells Fargo
Defendants cite in their moving papers do not support that assertion.  (Ibid. [citing material facts numbered
57-59 and 186].)  Instead, those facts
relate to Cervenka’s testimony that (1) CLMB did not form the alleged
agreement, (2) CLMB did not perform any work in connection with the contract,
(3) he had no awareness of GE Capital’s portfolio, and (4) there were no
internal discussions regarding GE Capital’s asset sale plan in 2010.  (UMF Nos. 57-59, 186.)  Moreover, the testimony cited in support of
those material facts does not show that Cervenka testified that he, on behalf
of CLMB, did not rely on the false promise alleged in the First Amended
Complaint.  (Def. COE, Ex. 19, Cervenka
Dep., pp. 9:25-11:8, 15:20-16:7, 20:24-21:5.) 
The court further finds that Cervenka’s statement that he does not “have
any personal knowledge of what [Plaintiff] alleges” does not show that CLMB
relied on the false promise made by Sloan on behalf of Wells Fargo
Defendants.  (Id. at p. 30:11-19.)
Fourth, the other arguments presented by Wells Fargo Defendants in
the sections regarding the fraud claims appear to relate only to the
intentional misrepresentation cause of action and therefore do not show that
Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of this cause of action.  (Mot., pp. 28:14-17, 28:18-29:5.) 
The court therefore denies Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for fraud – false promise.
6.     Sixth
Cause of Action for Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation Against Wells Fargo
Defendants and Defendant Sloan (Issue Nos. 6, 12, 18)
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation ‘are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.’”  (Aton Center, Inc., supra, 93
Cal.App.5th at p. 1245.) 
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the sixth cause of action for fraud – intentional
misrepresentation has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that
an element of the cause of action (that the subject representations were false)
cannot be established.  
The misrepresentation that is the subject of this cause of action consists
of the allegedly false representation to Plaintiff by Sloan and Silk “that
there was no relationship between the Portfolio opportunity presented by
Plaintiff to Wells Fargo [Defendants] in 2010 and the acquisition of the
Portfolio in 2015 by Wells Fargo [Defendants] and a third-party partner [(i.e.,
Blackstone)].”  (FAC ¶ 73.)  Wells Fargo Defendants have presented
evidence showing that those representations were true.  
As set forth above, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted (1) the
declaration of Gray, in which Gray states that he, on behalf of Blackstone,
approached Wells Fargo Defendants in March 2015 regarding the GE Transaction,
and (2) the declaration of Sloan, in which Sloan states that (i) “[t]he 2015 GE
[T]ransaction was brought to Wells Fargo [Defendants] by Blackstone[,]” (ii)
Wells Fargo Defendants “had taken no action with respect to the commercial real
estate asset and debt portfolio that GE Capital agreed to sell in April 2015”
before Gray called him in March 2015, and (iii) “[t]he 2015 GE [T]ransaction
was completely unrelated to [his] May 27, 2010 meeting with” Plaintiff.  (Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶¶ 11, 15-20;
Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶¶ 21, 25.) 
Sloan has further stated that he did not “recall speaking with
[Plaintiff] at church about business, including the alleged finder’s fee
agreement or the 2015 GE [T]ransaction.” 
(Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶ 26.) 
Thus, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
to produce evidence showing that the alleged misrepresentations were not false.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of the falsity of
Wells Fargo Defendants’ representations.
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff has submitted evidence
showing that Sloan did make the alleged representations to Plaintiff in April
or May 2015.  (Pl. COE, Ex. A, Pl. Decl.,
¶ 15.)  However, Plaintiff has not
submitted competent, admissible evidence showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the falsity of those representations.  As set forth above, the court has sustained
Wells Fargo Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the assertions made by
Plaintiff in his declaration regarding the content of his conversation with
Quigley to the extent that they are offered to prove the truth of the matters
stated (i.e., that Wells Fargo Defendants had defrauded CLMB of its finder’s
fee).  Thus, Plaintiff cannot rely on
this evidence to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Sloan’s representation that the GE Transaction was unrelated to
Plaintiff’s May 27, 2010 presentation to Sloan was false.  (FAC ¶ 73.) 

The court has also sustained Wells Fargo Defendants’ evidentiary
objections to unrelated Congressional hearings because that evidence is
irrelevant and does not show that, in this instance, Sloan made
misrepresentations to Plaintiff about the relation between Plaintiff’s May 27,
2010 meeting with Sloan and the 2015 GE Transaction.  Finally, for the reasons set forth above, the
court finds that Plaintiff’s argument that the statements made by Wells Fargo
Defendants’ Chief Executive Officer show that Blackstone did not procure the GE
Transaction do not show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to (1) whether
the GE Transaction was related to Plaintiff’s May 27, 2010 meeting with Sloan,
and therefore (2) the statements made by Sloan and Silk were false.
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for fraud – intentional
misrepresentation.
7.     Seventh
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment and Imposition of Constructive Trust against
Wells Fargo Defendants (Issue Nos. 4, 10, 13-16, 19)
“‘The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are “receipt of a
benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”  [Citation.] 
“The theory of unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit
which may not justly be retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent
to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched.”  [Citation.]’” 
(Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769.)
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the seventh cause of action for unjust enrichment and
imposition of constructive trust has no merit because Wells Fargo Defendants
have shown that an element of the cause of action (Wells Fargo Defendants’
unjust retention of a benefit at the expense of Plaintiff) cannot be
established. 
Plaintiff has based this cause of action on the theory that Wells
Fargo Defendants have “been unjustly enriched as a result of not paying [CLMB]
the finder’s fee that it was entitled to receive” pursuant to the alleged
contract.  (FAC ¶ 81.)  As set forth in connection with the court’s
ruling on the first cause of action for breach of oral contract, Wells Fargo
Defendants have submitted evidence showing that Plaintiff was not the procuring
cause of the GE Transaction, such that (1) CLMB was not entitled to a finder’s
fee, and (2) Wells Fargo Defendants therefore have not unjustly retained a
benefit at the expense of CLMB and Plaintiff.  (Def. COE, Tab C, Gray Decl., ¶¶ 1, 5, 12,
14-16; Def. COE, Tab B, Sloan Decl., ¶¶ 21, 25.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Wells Fargo
Defendants’ unjust retention of a benefit at CLMB and Plaintiff’s expense
because, as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the first cause
of action for breach of oral contract, Plaintiff has not presented evidence
showing the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether he or
CLMB was the procuring cause of the GE Transaction and therefore was entitled
to a finder’s fee. 
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the seventh cause of action for unjust enrichment
and imposition of constructive trust.
8.     Claim
for Punitive Damages (Issue No. 20)
“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “[O]n
a motion for summary adjudication with respect to a punitive damages claim, the
higher evidentiary standard applies.¿ If the plaintiff is going to prevail on a
punitive damages claim, he or she can only do so by establishing malice,
oppression or fraud by clear and convincing evidence.”¿ (Basich v. Allstate
Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.)
The court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have met their burden
of showing that the claim for punitive damages has no merit because Wells Fargo
Defendants have shown that CLMB assigned its right to recover punitive damages
on its behalf to Plaintiff, which is improper.
The court acknowledges that it has denied Wells Fargo Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for fraud –
false promise, which may support a claim for punitive damages.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (b),
(c)(1).)  However, this cause of action
alleges not that Wells Fargo Defendants falsely promised to Plaintiff
that they would pay a finder’s fee to him, but that Wells Fargo Defendants
falsely promised to pay to CLMB a finder’s fee.  (FAC ¶ 65.) 
Thus, CLMB is the party to which the false promise was made.  Plaintiff has alleged that CLMB “assigned to
Plaintiff all of its rights arising out of the” alleged agreement, and
therefore has standing to allege this cause of action.  (FAC ¶ 37.) 
Moreover, Wells Fargo Defendants have submitted a copy of the
“Assignment of Legal Rights Agreement,” executed by CLMB and Plaintiff, in
which CLMB “assign[ed] all of its rights under the [June 2010 oral finder’s fee
agreement between CLMB and Wells Fargo Defendants] . . . .”  (Def. COE, Ex. 49.)  However, “some restrictions exist on a
plaintiff’s attempt to assign away rights to recover certain types of damages .
. . .”  (Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 905, 925.)  “In such a
case, any potential rights to recover damages for emotional distress or
punitive damages are not assignable (because they are founded upon wrongs
of a purely personal nature).”  (Id.
at p. 926 [emphasis added] [internal quotation marks omitted].) 
Thus, the court finds that Wells Fargo Defendants have shown that
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages, which is based on an assigned right to
bring the remaining cause of action for fraud – false promise, has no merit
because CLMB was not permitted to assign its right to recover such damages to
Plaintiff.  (Dagher, supra,
238 Cal.App.4th at p. 926.) 
 The court finds that
Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to (1) the permissibility of CLMB’s assignment of its claim for
punitive damages to Plaintiff, or (2) whether Wells Fargo Defendants committed
fraud against Plaintiff, so as to support a direct claim for punitive
damages.  Plaintiff did not address this
argument in his opposing memorandum of points and authorities.  Moreover, while Plaintiff disputed Wells
Fargo Defendants’ material fact that Plaintiff alleges all of the claims on
behalf of CLMB as an assignee, the evidence submitted in support of his
response to that fact—which consists of Plaintiff’s testimony that he is
pursuing this action both individually and on behalf of CLMB— does not show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether (1) Plaintiff may assert
a claim for punitive damages against Wells Fargo Defendants directly, or (2)
CLMB properly assigned its claim for such damages to Plaintiff.  (Material Fact No. 151; Pl. COE, Ex. 29, Pl.
Dep., p. 86:16-19.) 
The court therefore grants Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the claim for punitive damages.
9.     Joinder
to Motion for Summary Judgment
On May 14, 2024, defendant Sloan filed a joinder to Wells Fargo
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication.  The court finds that Sloan
did not satisfy the procedural requirements for a motion for summary judgment
or adjudication because he did not file a separate statement in support of his
joinder.
“The supporting papers [filed in connection with a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication] shall include a separate
statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the
moving party contends are undisputed.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd.
(b)(1) [emphasis added]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350 [a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “must . . . be supported by” a separate
statement of undisputed material facts in support of the motion] [emphasis
added].)  Parties who file joinders to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication are also required to support their joinder with a separate
statement.  (Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627, 636 [while
filing a notice of joinder “may be sufficient for some purposes [citations], it
is not sufficient for purposes of the summary judgment statute[;]” “[e]ach
moving party shall support their motion for summary judgment with a
separate statement”] [internal citation omitted].)
Thus, the court finds that Sloan was required to file a separate
statement in support of his joinder to Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion.  The court further finds that Sloan’s
assertion that he was joining Wells Fargo Defendants’ separate statement is
insufficient.  Because he did not file a
separate statement, the court exercises its discretion to deny Sloan’s
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿437c, subd. (b)(1) [“The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denying the motion”].) 
Further, while the court notes that Wells Fargo Defendants’ motion
included argument that Plaintiff’s claims against Sloan fail, Wells Fargo
Defendants did not show that they had the authority to move for summary
judgment on behalf of another defendant. 
(Mot., p. 20:10 [beginning argument section entitled “Luke’s Claims
Against the Individual Defendants Fail”]; Notice of Mot., p. 2:4-5 [identifying
moving parties on motion to be “Defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo
& Company[,] and Stephen R. Silk”].)
The court therefore denies defendant Sloan’s joinder to Wells
Fargo Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
ORDER
The court denies defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo &
Company’s motion for summary judgment. 
The court grants defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo &
Company’s motion for summary adjudication as to (1) plaintiff John Christian
Lukes’s first, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, and (2)
plaintiff John Christian Lukes’s claim for punitive damages.
The court denies defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo &
Company’s motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiff John Christian
Lukes’s fifth cause of action for fraud – false promise.
The court denies defendant Timothy J. Sloan’s joinder to defendants
Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo & Company’s motion for summary judgment
or, alternatively, summary adjudication. 
 
 
The court orders defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo & Company
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 7, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


