 Case Number:  23STLC04517    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  26   
Urban
Therapies Distribution, LLC v. Treehouse Botanicals Corporation, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendants Treehouse Botanicals Corporation, Ariel Mehrban, and
Jillian Goldsmith’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE
TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT AND OVERRULED
AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR OPEN BOOK ACCOUNT.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff
Urban Therapies Distribution, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action for breach of contract and common counts against Defendants Treehouse
Botanicals Corporation (“Defendant Treehouse”), Ariel Mehrban (“Defendant
Merhban”), and Jillian Goldsmith (“Defendant Goldsmith”). On August 25,
2023, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
The Court notes that each Defendant also filed a motion to
quash service on August 25, 2023, set to be heard concurrently with the instant
Demurrer, but those motions were not separately reserved. Instead, Defendants
improperly sought to use the same reservation number for the Demurrer and the
motions to quash despite indicating that only one motion was reserved under
that number and paying only one filing fee. (Motions to Quash, filed 08/25/23,
p. 13.) Accordingly, the Court will not consider the motions to quash at this
time. Defendants must separately reserve and separately pay the requisite fees
for each of the motions to quash. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of contract alleges that
the parties entered into a written agreement, which is purportedly attached as Exhibit
A. (Compl., ¶BC-1.) The Complaint further alleges that “Defendants jointly
agreed to purchase products from Plaintiff in which payment for the purchases
were due and owing within 30 days of the sale. Defendants failed and continue
to fail to pay for the products purchased.” (Ibid.) As a result,
Plaintiff allegedly suffered damages of $9,249.08. (Id. at ¶BC-4 and
Exh. A.) For the second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges an open book account
for goods, wares, and merchandise for which Defendants promised to pay the sum
of $9,249.08. (Id. at ¶CC-1.) 
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Declaration of Demurring
Party, filed 08/25/23.) Defendants demur to the Complaint for improper
service and failure to allege sufficient facts. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §§
415.10, 415.20, 430.10, subd. (e).) However, improper service is not a basis to demur to a pleading. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10.) Therefore, the demurrer on grounds of improper service is overruled.

 
Regarding failure to allege sufficient facts, Defendants first argue that
the Complaint alleges a contract in violation of the statute of frauds.
Commercial Code section 2201, subdivision (1) states in relevant part: “Except
as otherwise provided in this section a contract for the sale of goods for the
price of five hundred dollars ($500) or more is not enforceable by way of
action or defense unless there is some writing sufficient to indicate that a
contract for sale has been made between the parties and signed by the party
against whom enforcement is sought or by his or her authorized agent or broker.”
(Comm. Code, § 2201, subd. (1).) As this is alleged to be a contract for goods
for $500.00 or more, the Complaint must demonstrate the existence of a writing
signed by each Defendant. The opposition does not address this requirement. The
Demurrer also argues that the terms of the contract are not sufficiently
alleged such that the Complaint alleges a meeting of the minds and the parties’
obligations. The Complaint broadly alleges that Defendants jointly agreed to
purchase products for Plaintiff and make payments due 30 days after the sale.
(Compl., ¶BC-1.) In its minimal opposition, Plaintiff argues that the terms are
evidenced by the attached invoices which were generated by Defendants’ sales
orders. No authority is cited by Plaintiff, nor analysis provided, for the
proposition that the invoices are sufficient to demonstrate a meeting of the
minds and agreement to the terms stated therein. (Opp., pp. 3:10-21.) Nor are
the sales orders attached to the Complaint. Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Regarding the second cause of action for open book account, the Demurrer
first argues that the elements for a breach of contract cause of action are not
alleged. (Demurrer, pp. 11:9-14:14.) This is not relevant to an open book
account. Next, Defendants argue that an open book account “is characterized
by a series of transactions over time” but that the invoices are insufficient
to show this. No authority is provided regarding the elements of an open book
account and in any event, it is unclear why the invoices, which run from
October 24, 2022 to November 29, 2022, do not show a such a mutual and
continuous relationship. Notably, other than citing the statute of limitations
for an open book account at Code of Civil Procedure section 337, which is
irrelevant, the Demurrer cites no authority as to why the invoices fail to meet
the pleading standard for this cause of action. (Id. at pp.
14:15-15:17.) The Demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. 
 
Finally, Defendants’ argument against the interest allegation at
paragraph 10 does not demonstrate that interest is a necessary element of
either cause of action such that it is grounds for a demurrer. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”].)
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Treehouse Botanicals Corporation, Ariel Mehrban, and
Jillian Goldsmith’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE
TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT AND OVERRULED
AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR OPEN BOOK ACCOUNT.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 