  Case Number:  21STCV13940    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
HUDSON
  PRIVATE CORP.,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
UPENSE
  MEDIA CAPITAL PTY, LTD, ET AL.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  21STCV13940
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  April 12, 2021
Trial
  Date:  None



 
Hearing
date:              May
22, 2024 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
Hudson Private Corp.
Responding
Party:      Defendants
Upsense Media Capital Pty, Ltd and RJ Bucaria aka                                          Richard
J. Bucaria
 
(1)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One)
(2)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set Two)
(3)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) 
 
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, as well as the parties’ Joint
Statement.   The Court has also
considered the Defendant Bucaria’s Response to 
Court’s Tentative Ruling on Hudson’s Motions to Compel and Plaintiff’s Memorandum
re: Court’s Tentative Ruling on Hudson’s Motions to Compel.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One) is GRANTED as to RFP Nos.
28-34 and DENIED as to RFP Nos. 1-27, 35-38. 
Defendant’s production should be limited to July 2017 to the present.
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to RFPs (Set Two) is GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 39-53, 55-58 and
DENIED as to RFP Nos. 54 and 59.  Defendant’s
production should be limited to July 2017 to the present. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED
as to 1-9, 10 (as limited to persons located in California), 12-14 and 17-20 (12
and 17 as limited to the “1917”), 23-29 and 31-35 (34 and 35 as limited to
“1917’) and DENIED as to 11, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 30.  Defendant’s responses should be limited to
July 2017 to the present.
 
            Defendant
Bucaria is ordered to serve further responses within 20 days.  Bucaria’s further responses should remove all
objections based on lack of standing and lack of personal jurisdiction.   
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED.  
 
Background
 
            On
March 21, 2020, Plaintiff Hudson Private Corp. (“Hudson”) entered into a
Revenue Participation Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Defendant Upsense Media
Capital Pty, Ltd. (“Upsense”) pursuant to which Hudson would provide Upsense
with $2.5 million to purchase an equity interest in the motion picture
entitled, “1917” (the “Picture”).  Hudson
alleges it was entitled to receive (i) 100% of the amounts payable to Upsense under
Upsense’s investment agreement in the movie with MSP Film Fund (“Upsense/MSP
Fund Agreement”) until Hudson received $3.5 million and (ii) after receipt of
the $3.5 million by Hudson, a continuing 1.8% interest in the amounts due to
Upsense under the Upsense/MSP Fund Agreement. 
The amounts due Hudson would be paid directly to Hudson from a
designated escrow account.
 
            Hudson
alleges Upsense has failed to pay it any of the amounts due under the Agreement
and has failed to provide any accounting of Hudson’s $2.5 million in
investment, the amounts received by Upsense from or the amounts due
Hudson.  Hudson alleges Upsense has
already received distributions from the MSP Fund, but it has failed to pay 100%
of those payments to Hudson.  
 
            On
April 12, 2021, Hudson filed this action against Upsense and its alleged
principal, Defendant RJ Bucaria aka Richard J. Bucaria.  Hudson alleges Upsense is the alter ego of
Bucaria.  Hudson alleges (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) fraud—intentional misrepresentation and false promise; (4) fraud—negligent
misrepresentation; (5) conversion; (6) unjust enrichment; (7) money had and
received; and (8) accounting.  
 
            On
July 16, 2021, Bucaria filed a Motion to Quash Service of Summons.  Bucaria’s Motion to Quash was originally set
for hearing on December 1, 2021. 
Bucaria’s Motion to Quash has still not been heard and is set for
hearing on April 17, 2024, a little over two years after the original scheduled
hearing date hearing date.  
 
            On
July 30, 2021, the Court continued the motion to quash so that Hudson could
conduct jurisdictional discovery.  On
September 15, 2023, Hudson filed three motions to compel further responses to
RFPs (Set One), RFPs (Set Two) and Special Interrogatories (Set One).  On November 27, 2023, Defendants filed
oppositions to the motions to compel further responses to RFPs (Set One) and
RFPs (Set Two).  On November 28, 2023, Defendants
filed an opposition to the motion to compel further response to Special
Interrogatories (Set One).  On December
1, 2023, Hudson filed replies to Defendants’ oppositions.  
 
            On
April 9, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling on Hudson’s three motions to
compel further responses to RFPs (Set One), RFPs (Set Two) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One).  In response
to oral argument, the Court continued the matter for supplemental
briefing.  On April 15, 2024, Defendant
Bucaria and Plaintiff Hudson filed supplemental briefs.  
 
Plaintiff’s Supplemental Briefing does not
merit reconsideration or reconsideration of the Court’s April 9, 2024 Tentative
Ruling
 
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court amend its tentative ruling and compel further response to
all of the discovery.  Plaintiff insists
that RFP Nos. 1-28 and 35-38 seek information relevant to the issue of alter
ego and specific jurisdiction.  The Court
reviewed these RFPs in connection with the initial tentative ruling and has now
reviewed them again in light of the Plaintiff’s arguments.  
 
            As
initially stated in the April 9, 2024 ruling, the motion to compel further
responses to RFP Nos. 1-28 and 25-28 is denied. 
These discovery requests pertain primarily to substantive issues underlying
the complaint.  Any relationship to
jurisdictional issues is too attenuated to justify compelling further response.  The Court is only allowing limited
jurisdictional discovery Plaintiff’s reasoning would open the floodgates to
discovery into substantive claims and defenses. 
 
            Plaintiff
also asks that the Court compel further responses to RFP Nos. 54 and 59.  For the reasons stated in the April 9, 2024
ruling, these RFPs do not fall within the limited scope of the jurisdictional
discovery allowed by the Court, i.e. information directly relevant to the alter
ego claim and information directly relevant to specific jurisdiction.  Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing merely
reiterates the same position raised in the moving papers.
 
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court compel further responses to Interrogatories 11, 15, 16,
21-22.  For the reasons stated in the
April 9, 2024 ruling, the motion to compel further responses to Interrogatories
11, 15, 16 and 21-22 is denied. 
Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing merely restates the same position
raised in the moving papers.  
 
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court reconsider its tentative denying sanctions.  The Court declines to reconsider sanctions
and for the reasons stated previously, sanctions are denied.  The motions to compel further responses were
prompted by the difficult issue of where the limits on jurisdictional discovery
should be drawn.  Both parties’ positions
had substantial merit.  
 
Defendant’s Supplemental Briefing merits
partial reconsideration of the Court’s April 9, 2024 tentative ruling
 
            Defendant
asks that the Court deny the motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories 18-21.  The Court
declines to reconsider its tentative ruling to grant the motion as to these
interrogatories.  These interrogatories
attempt to trace a specific asset of Upsense’s and is relevant to commingling
of funds and assets for purposes of demonstrating unity of interest.  Any concern that the interrogatories are
overbroad is limited by the fact that they only pertain to the $2.5 million
given to Upsense for “1917” by Hudson.  
 
            Defendant
asks that the Interrogatory Nos. 12 and 17 be limited to “1917.”  The Court agrees this is a reasonable
limitation that will ensure that the discovery is limited to information
relevant to specific jurisdiction.  The
tentative ruling is amended to limit further responses to Interrogatories 12
and 17 to “1917.”
 
            Defendant
asks that the Court limit the tentatively granted 26 RFPs in scope.  Defendant argues the RFPs are overbroad.  However, apart from limiting the document
requests by time period, Defendant fails to offer any suggestion as to how the
26 RFPs should be limited.  The Court
finds discovery of information from July 2017 to the present is a reasonable
limitation.  Defendant is only ordered to
produce responsive documents for the period from July 2017 to the present. 
 
            Defendant
also asks that the Court allow him to maintain his objections.  Defendant’s request to maintain certain
objections is granted in part.  Defendant
is ordered, however, to remove all objections based on lack of standing and
lack of personal jurisdiction.   
 
            In
a footnote, Defendant reasserts his objection that discovery regarding Prolific
is outside the scope of jurisdictional discovery.  The Court considered at length whether the
discovery pertaining to Prolific was within the scope of discovery.  Although a close call, the Court determined
that discovery into Prolific is within the scope of jurisdictional discovery
based on alter ego.  Defendant fails to
present any new arguments that would merit departing from the original
tentative.
 
Legal
Standard
            Requests
for Production of Documents
CCP § 2031.310
(a) On receipt of a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for
an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply:
            (1)
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
            (2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3)
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with each of the following:
            (1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
            (2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
            (3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding
party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.
 
… (h) Except as provided in subdivision
(j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.
 
            Where
a party is seeking to compel further responses to requests for document
production, the burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the
subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery. (CCP §2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland
v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98 (“Once good cause was shown, the
burden shifted to Kirkland to justify his objection”); Glenfed Develop.
Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Once good cause
is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding
party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v.
Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
            Special
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300
(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:
 
            (1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
            (2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
            (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.
 
(b)(1) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(2) In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.
 
(d) The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(e) If a party then fails to obey an order
compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
 
            If
a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party
to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories and
RFAs. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221; Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
 
            Jurisdictional
Discovery
            “The
plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of
jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”  (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169
Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  However, continuance
of a motion to quash to conduct jurisdictional discovery may be denied if there
is no showing that discovery would likely produce evidence of additional
“contacts.”  (Beckman v. Thompson
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 481, 486–487.)  A
plaintiff’s request for jurisdictional discovery is properly denied where the
plaintiff fails to identify what specific discovery they would pursue if
granted a continuance and the plaintiff fails to establish that additional
discovery is likely to lead to production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.  (Preciado v.
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
964, 973-974 (affirming trial court’s denial of plaintiff’s request for
jurisdictional discovery in absence of identification of specific discovery plaintiff
would pursue.)  Any discovery must be
limited to the issue of personal jurisdiction. 
(Burdick v. Supr. Ct. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 30.)
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff is entitled to jurisdictional discovery on theory of alter ego
and specific jurisdiction
            Based on Plaintiff’s complaint, its
opposition (“Opposition to Ex Parte”) to Defendants’ Ex Parte to Advance
Hearing Date on Motion to Quash and the instant Motion to Compel Further
Responses (“Ex Parte”), Plaintiff’s theory of personal jurisdiction over
Bucaria is based on his status as an alter ego of Upsense.  Plaintiff alleges personal jurisdiction based
on Paragraph 10(c) of the Agreement, which states the “Parties hereby consent
to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in the County of
Los Angeles in the State of California as to any matter arising out of or
relating to this Agreement.”  (Complaint,
¶9, Ex. 1, ¶10(c).)  The “parties” to the
Agreement are Hudson and Upsense. 
(Complaint, ¶8.)  Plaintiff
alleges Bucaria is liable under the Agreement because Upsense is his alter
ego.  (Complaint, ¶¶2, 4-7.) 
 
            Plaintiff never filed a substantive
opposition to the Motion to Quash, only to the Ex Parte.  In Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendants’ Ex
Parte, Plaintiff argued that Bucaria was liable on the Agreement based on alter
ego.  (Opposition to Ex Parte, 2:1-9.)  The Court’s minute order of July 30, 2021
does not provide any details regarding the basis for its order allowing for
jurisdictional discovery, only stating, “[c]ounsel is allowed to conduct limited
jurisdictional discovery.”  (Hudson’s
RJN, Ex. E.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also
states in her declarations ISO of the Motions to Compel Further Responses that Plaintiff
asserts Bucaria is liable for Upsense’s obligations and actions based on alter
ego.  (Mekhael Decs. ISO Motions to
Compel Further, ¶14.)  
 
            Thus, based on Plaintiff’s complaint,
its Opposition to the Ex Parte and its Motions to Compel Further, Plaintiff is
entitled to limited jurisdictional discovery on the only theory of personal
jurisdiction articulated by Plaintiff in this proceeding—contractual consent to
personal jurisdiction based on alter ego. 
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to discovery relevant to the elements of
alter ego:  “(1) such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that no
separation actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 417.”
 
            In addition, Bucaria’s Motion to
Quash and his declaration in support thereof raise issues as to specific
jurisdiction.  “When determining whether
specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation. A court may exercise specific
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3)
the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with ‘fair play and
substantial justice.’”  (Jayone Foods,
Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553 (citing Pavlovich
v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268); Farina v. SAVWCL III, LLC
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)
 
            Plaintiff is a New York
corporation.  (Complaint, ¶1.)  Defendant Bucaria is a New York
resident.  (Complaint, ¶3.)  Defendant Upsense, Bucaria’s alleged alter
ego, is an Australian corporation. 
(Complaint, ¶2.)  There are no
facts presented that would establish any relationship of the parties’ or their
transaction to California other than their mutual agreement to consent to
jurisdiction in California.  
 
            However, Bucaria attested to
multiple facts in support of his Motion to Quash and his contention neither specific
or general jurisdiction applied to him. 
For example, Bucaria testifies that in July 2019, he went to California
on a one week trip for both “social and business reasons.”  (Bucaria Dec. ISO MTQ, ¶5.)  Bucaria testifies that the trip was entirely
unrelated to Upsense.  (Id.)  Bucaria testifies that Upsense is owned in
part by an entity known as Prolific.  (Id.
at ¶7.)  Bucaria also submitted a declaration
in support of the Ex Parte.  Plaintiff is
entitled to conduct discovery into the facts contained raised in Bucaria’s
Motion to Quash and Ex Parte to the extent they relate to specific jurisdiction.  
 
            Plaintiff has never presented any
argument or facts indicating that additional discovery could establish grounds for
general jurisdiction over Bucaria.  “A
state court may exercise general jurisdiction only when a defendant is
‘essentially at home’ in the State.  General
jurisdiction…extends to any and all claims brought against a defendant.  Those claims need not relate to the forum
State or the defendant's activity  here;
they may concern events and conduct anywhere in the world. But that breadth
imposes a correlative limit: Only a select set of affiliations with a forum
will expose a defendant to such sweeping jurisdiction.  In what the Supreme Court has called the
‘paradigm’ case, an individual is subject to general jurisdiction in her place
of domicile.  And the ‘equivalent’ forums
for a corporation are its place of incorporation and principal place of
business.”  (Preciado v. Freightliner
Custom Chassis Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 976.)  
 
            According
to Bucaria’s declaration in support of his Motion to Quash, he (1) resides in
New York and has lived there his entire life except for 4 years for college in
Massachusetts and Connecticut and (2) he does not reside in California.  (Bucaria Dec. ISO of Motion to Quash filed July
16, 2021, ¶¶1-2.)  In response, Plaintiff
has never argued or maintained New York was not Bucaria’s domicile.  In support of Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel
Further, Plaintiff does not offer any facts that would indicate any basis for
general jurisdiction.  Plaintiff has
therefore failed to demonstrate that jurisdictional discovery would yield any
information that would establish the very narrow requirements for general jurisdiction
as to Bucaria as an individual. 
Plaintiff therefore has no right to general jurisdiction discovery.  
 
            In
evaluating Plaintiff’s three Motions to Compel Further, the court will apply
these findings.  Plaintiff is entitled to
propound discovery pertaining to alter ego and the facts relevant to specific
jurisdiction set forth in Bucaria’s Motion to Quash and the Ex Parte.  
 
            Elements
of Alter Ego
            “To
succeed on their alter ego claim, plaintiffs must be able to show: (1) such a
unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner
that no separation actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts
in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 417.)
 
            “Several
factors are to be considered in applying the doctrine; among them are:
commingling of funds and other assets…the treatment by an individual of the
assets of the corporation as his own…sole ownership of all of the stock in a
corporation by one individual or the members of a family; the failure to
adequately capitalize a corporation; the total absence of corporate assets, and
undercapitalization; the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality
or conduit for a single venture or the business of an individual or another
corporation…the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to maintain
arm's length relationships among related entities…the diversion of assets from
a corporation by or to a stockholder or other person or entity, to the
detriment of creditors…the contracting with another with intent to avoid
performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against personal
liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal
transactions…This long list of factors is not exhaustive. The enumerated
factors may be considered among others under the particular circumstances of
each case.”  (Id. at 417–418.) 
 
            “Critically,
no single factor is determinative, and instead a court must examine all the
circumstances to determine whether to apply the doctrine.  There is no litmus test to determine when the
corporate veil will be pierced; rather the result will depend on the
circumstances of each particular case. 
Because it is founded on equitable principles, application of the alter
ego is not made to depend upon prior decisions involving factual situations
which appear to be similar.  It is the
general rule that the conditions under which a corporate entity may be
disregarded vary according to the circumstances of each case.”  (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 195.)  The “alter EGO
inquiry may, in appropriate circumstances, focus narrowly on certain
inequitable uses of the corporate from for specific purposes.”  (Id.)
 
            In
determining whether to apply alter ego, the court must consider “all the
circumstances relevant to the alter ego inquiry.”  (Id. at 196.)  This includes arbitral findings that are
entitled to collateral estoppel effect.  (Id.)
  
 
            Alter
ego does not require a showing that the use of the corporate form was a “sham,
in bad faith, or intended to defraud.”  (Id.
at 199.)  “[C]ourts may ignore the
corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine “when the corporate form is used
to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful
or inequitable purpose.”  (Id.)  The mere fact that a corporate entity is a
“real business with real purpose and assets and not a sham corporate entity
formed for the purpose of committing a fraud or other misdeeds” does not
preclude application of alter ego.  Such
a “narrow formulation of the doctrine based on the purposes of the corporate
entity’s formation” is a “misunderstanding of the applicable law.”  (Id.) 

 
            The
“inequitable result” prong of alter ego requires a “finding that the facts are
such that adherence to the fiction of the separate existence of the corporation
would sanction a fraud or promote injustice. 
The test for this requirement is that if the acts are treated as those
of the corporation alone, it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.  An inequitable result does not require a
wrongful intent.”  (Id. at 200.)  While inability to collect alone does not
satisfy the inequitable result prong, “inability to collect combined with other
factors indicating inequitable uses of the corporate form, may justify the
unjust result element for alter ego liability.” 
(Id.)
 
            “The
conditions under which the corporate entity may be disregarded vary according
to the circumstances in each case and the matter is particularly within the
province of the trial court.”  (Misik
v. D'Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1071–1072.)  “Whether a party is liable under an alter ego
theory is a question of fact.”  (Leek,
supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 418.)  
 
            Motion to Compel Further
Responses to RFP (Set One) Nos. 1-38—DENIED as to 1-28, 35-38 and GRANTED as to
28-34
            Plaintiff
propounded RFPs (Set One) on June 10, 2021, before the Motion to Quash was
filed on July 16, 2021 and before the Court granted leave to conduct limited
jurisdictional discovery on July 23, 2021. 
As such, Plaintiff’s RFPs (Set One) were not tailored to the
jurisdictional issues raised for which the Court allowed limited discovery.
  
            Applying the foregoing
principles and having reviewed the RFPs, Plaintiff’s motion to compel is denied
as to RFP Nos. 1-28, 35, 36 and 38. 
These RFPs pertain to the underlying substantive dispute between Upsense
and Plaintiff, not whether Upsense is the alter ego of Bucaria or elements of
specific jurisdiction.  Moreover, Bucaria
agreed in his supplemental responses to RFP Nos. 10-12, 29, 30, 34 and 35 that he
would produce documents regarding personal payments he received subject to a
protective order.  
 
            As
to RFP No. 37, Plaintiff asks that Bucaria produce all “tax returns from January
2017 to the present, including all back-up and source documents from which said
tax returns were prepared.”  (Separate
Statement in Support of MTCF to RFPs (set one), RFP No. 37.)    “The
California Supreme Court has held that Revenue and Taxation Code section 19282,
which prohibits disclosure of tax returns, implicitly creates a privilege
against the disclosure of income tax returns. (Webb v. Standard Oil Co.
(1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513, 319 P.2d 621.) The privilege may be waived by an
intentional relinquishment of it. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 721.) In addition, it is inapplicable where the gravamen of the
lawsuit is inconsistent with claiming the privilege, or where a public policy
greater than the purpose of the privilege is involved.”  (Fortunato v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 475, 479.)  The privilege
against forced disclosure of tax returns extends to individuals, banks and
corporations.  (Schnabel v. Supr. Ct.
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 720.)  Submission
of one’s tax returns to a bank as part of a loan application does not qualify
as the intentional relinquishment of the tax return privilege.  (Fortunato v. Supr. Ct. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 475, 479 (reversing trial court’s order denying plaintiff’s motion
for protective order as to deposition subpoena on plaintiff’s bank seeking tax
returns; tax returns were protected by tax return privilege and privacy right
and submission to bank in connection with loan application was not intentional
waiver).)  
 
            Bucaria
objected to RFP No. 37 based on “attorney client privilege, the work product
doctrine, joint defense or common interest privilege, or any other
constitutional, statutory, common law, or regulatory protection, immunity, or
proscription from disclosure.”  Bucaria’s
objection is sustained to the RFP No. 37 based on the privilege against
disclosure of tax returns. 
 
            RFP
Nos. 28-34 are within the scope of permitted jurisdictional discovery.  These RFPs are relevant to the alter ego
analysis.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One) is GRANTED as to RFP Nos.
28-34 and DENIED as to RFP Nos. 1-27.  Defendant’s
responses should be limited to July 2017 to the present.
 
            Motion to Compel Further
Responses to RFP Nos. 39-59—GRANT as to 39-58 and DENY  as to 54 and 59
            Applying
the foregoing principles, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
RFPs (set two) is granted as to RFP Nos. 39-53, 55-58.  Based on a review of these RFPs (set two),
they seek information relevant to specific jurisdiction or personal
jurisdiction based on the Agreement and alter ego.  Defendant’s objections to RFP Nos. 39-53, 55-58
are overruled.
 
            A
number of the RFPs (set two) seek information regarding Prolific, the entity
identified by Bucaria in his declaration as the entity that owns a portion of
Upsense.  Defendant argues Prolific is
not a named party and any information regarding it is irrelevant to the theory
of alter ego liability alleged against Bucaria. 
However, the scope of discovery is broad and Bucaria’s declaration in
support of the Motion to Quash put Prolific’s status at issue.  Plaintiff alleges Upsense is Bucaria’s alter
ego, which does not preclude Plaintiff from establishing alter ego through
multiple shells for the purpose of opposing Bucaria’s Motion to Quash.  
 
            Plaintiff
fails to establish good cause to compel further response to RFP No. 54, which
seeks all documents evidencing Defendant Bucaria’s business relationship with
“Subpoenaed Parties.”  These “subpoenaed
parties” were referenced in Bucaria’s July 29, 2021 Declaration ISO of the Ex
Parte.  (7/29/21 Bucaria Dec., ¶2.) [MISLABELED IN ECOURT AS
“DECLARATION OF MARK SPILLANE IN SUPPORT OF EX PARTE.]   However, Bucaria referenced these “subpoenaed
parties” as evidence of the heavy jurisdictional discovery burden Plaintiff was
placing on third parties and as evidence of the negative effect the discovery
on these third parties was having on his reputation.  (Id. at ¶6.)  Bucaria’s reference
to the subpoenaed parties had nothing to do with the substantive issues raised
by his Motion to Quash or issues relating to personal jurisdiction.  Bucaria’s July 29, 2021 declaration did not
“put at issue” his relationship with the subpoenaed parties for purposes of the
substance of the Motion to Quash.  
 
            To
the extent Plaintiff is claiming some of these Subpoenaed Parties are located
in California, the RFP is still overbroad. 
Plaintiff did not limit the RFP to the California entities, nor did
Plaintiff limited the requested documents to those relating to the transaction
at issue, “1917” or the instant dispute. 

 
            Plaintiff
fails to establish good cause for further response to RFP No. 54.  As such, the motion to compel is denied as to
RFP No. 54.  
 
            Plaintiff
fails to establish good cause as to RFP No. 59, which seeks all documents
relating to Bucaria’s ownership of real or personal property in
California.  Specific jurisdiction
requires that Bucaria have availed himself of California’s benefits and
that the controversy is related to or
arises out of the Bucaria’s contacts with the forum.  Plaintiff fails to demonstrate a connection
between any real or personal property owned by Bucaria in California and the
controversy alleged in the complaint. 
Moreover, Bucaria provided a substantive response that corroborates his
declaration testimony in support of the Motion to Quash—he does not own, nor
has he ever owned, real or personal property in California.  
 
            For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set Two) is GRANTED as
to RFP Nos. 39-53, 55-58 and DENIED as to RFP Nos. 54 and
59.  Defendant’s responses are should be
limited to July 2017 to the present.
 
            Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)1-35—GRANT as to 1-9, 10 (as
limited to persons located in California),12-14 and 17-20 (12 and 17 limited to
“1917), 23-29 and 31-35 (34 and 35 as limited to “1917’) and DENY as to 11, 15,
16, 21, 22 and 30
            Applying
the foregoing principles and based on a review of the Special Interrogatories
(Set One) and Bucaria’s responses, the Court finds that Special Interrogatories
(Set One) Nos. 1-9, 10 (as limited to persons located in California),12-14 and 17-20
seek information relevant to the limited issues of personal jurisdiction based
on alter ego and specific jurisdiction. 
The motion is granted as to these special interrogatories.
 
            Special
Interrogatory No. 11 is duplicative of RFP No. 12 to the extent it is relevant
to the Motion to Quash.  
 
            Special
Interrogatory No. 15 is overbroad, because it seeks information regarding
Bucaria’s business relationships with “subpoenaed parties,”  who Plaintiff concedes are not all California
residents.  
 
            Special
Interrogatory No. 16 was sufficiently responded to by Bucaria.  
 
            Special
Interrogatory Nos. 21 and 22 are follow up interrogatories to Special
Interrogatory No. 20 that are unnecessary and go beyond the scope of limited
jurisdictional discovery allowed by the Court. 

 
            The
Court inadvertently omitted Special Interrogatory Nos. 23-35 from April 9, 2024
Tentative Ruling.  The Court rules on
those interrogatories as follows.   
 
            Interrogatories
23-29—GRANT.  These interrogatories
seek follow-up information regarding Interrogatory 19, information regarding
what Defendants did with the $2.5 million given to them by Upsense for “1917,”
and follow-up information regarding Defendant’s response to the question regarding
what was done with the $2.5 million.  The
Court previously indicated that the motion was granted as to Interrogatory No.
19 and further responses to follow upon interrogatories to Interrogatory No. 19
are warranted for the same reasons.  The
interrogatories regarding what was done with the $2.5 million given to
Defendants is relevant to alter ego, because it was an asset of Defendants and
how it was disposed of could potentially reveal a commingling of funds, failure
to adhere to corporate formalities or other grounds to find unity of
interest.  
 
            Interrogatory
No. 30—DENY.  Interrogatory No. 30
asks that Defendant describe how his business relationships with “subpoenaed
partes” was harmed, as represented in Defendant’s July 29, 2021 declaration in
support of his ex parte application to advance the hearing date on his motion
to quash.  As explained in connection
with RFP No. 54, this information is not relevant to the jurisdictional issues
raised by the motion to quash.
 
            Interrogatory
Nos. 31-33—GRANT.  Interrogatory Nos.
31-33 pertain to Defendant Bucaria’s resignation as managing partner of
Upsense.  Bucaria’s resignation from
Upsense is relevant to the jurisdictional issues raised by his motion to
quash.  Bucaria cited his resignation
from Upsense as a fact that weighed against a finding of jurisdiction based on
alter ego.  
 
            Interrogatory
Nos. 34 and 35—GRANT but limited to the PICTURE “1917.”  These interrogatories ask Bucaria to (1)
identify any persons in California with whom he had any communication or
dealings in connection with any project, including “1917,” and (2) to identify
all deals, agreements, etc. that he negotiated relating to any person in
California or the solicitation of funds from any person in California.  These interrogatories pertain to Bucaria’s
California contacts but because only specific jurisdiction is at issue, they
should be limited to those persons who communicated with Bucaria regarding
“1917” and any deals, agreements etc. relating to any person in California or
the solicitation of funds from any person in California for “1917.”  
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED
as to 1-9, 10 (as limited to persons located in California), 12-14 (Nos. 12
limited to “1917”), 17-20 (No. 17 limited to the “1917”), 23-29 and 31-35 (Nos.
34 and 35 limited to “1917’) and DENIED as to 11, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 30.  Defendant’s responses should be limited to
July 2017 to the present.  
 
            Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requested sanctions in the amount of (1) $4,475 in
connection with the Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One);
(2) $4,750 in connection with the Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs
(Set One); (3) $5,025 in connection with the Motion to Compel Further Response
to Special Interrogatories (Set One). 
The requests for sanctions were based on an hourly rate of $550/hr.
 
            Plaintiff
did not prevail entirely on the motions. 
Defendant Bucaria certainly had substantial justification to oppose the
motions.  A number of Plaintiff’s
discovery requests were patently outside of the scope of limited jurisdictional
discovery contemplated by the court.  For
this reason, Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Conclusion
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPs (Set One) is GRANTED as to RFP Nos.
28-34 and DENIED as to RFP Nos. 1-27, 35-38. 
Defendant’s production should be limited to July 2017 to the present.
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to RFPs (Set Two) is GRANTED as to RFP Nos. 39-53, 55-58 and
DENIED as to RFP Nos. 54 and 59. 
Defendant’s production should be limited to July 2017 to the present. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED
as to 1-9, 10 (as limited to persons located in California), 12-14 (No. 12
limited to “1917” and 17-20 (No. 17 limited to the “1917”). 23-29 and 31-35 (Nos.
34 and 35 as limited to “1917’) and DENIED as to 11, 15, 16, 21, 22 and
30.  Defendant’s responses should be
limited to July 2017 to the present.
 
            Defendant
Bucaria is ordered to serve further responses within 20 days.  Bucaria’s further responses should remove all
objections based on lack of standing and lack of personal jurisdiction.   
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED.  
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
 
Dated: May 22, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court
 