  Case Number:  22CMCV00340    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00340 City
 of Compton v. San Pedro Mo, et al.
Tuesday, May
7, 2024, 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: CONTEMPT AND IN
ADDITION, OR ALTERNATIVELY, FOR AN ORDER ALLOWING THE RECEIVER TO RECORD A
RECEIVER’S LIEN AGAINST THE PROPERTY AND COMMENCE FORECLOSURE 
 
I.           
BACKGROUND 
The complaint filed on September
28, 2022, alleges that Defendant, San Pedro Mo, LLC, (“San Pedro”) whose
manager is Mikel Haghnazarzadeh, owns real property in San Pedro. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants are operating a marijuana business at the property
without a license. Plaintiff alleges claims for (1) abatement, (2) public
nuisance, (3) violation of Municipal Code Chapter 9-24.3, (4) violation of
Municipal Code Chapters 30-33, (5) violation of Unfair Competition law, and (6)
violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §26000. 
II.           
ARGUMENTS
Plaintiff argues that Defendants refuse to pay the Receiver’s fees
as ordered by the Court since December 22, 2023, at which time the Court
terminated the receivership and required Defendants to pay costs. The Court
should compel compliance or set an order to show cause re contempt for
Defendants’ failure to comply with the Court’s order. Plaintiff asks for
imposition of sanctions for violating a court order and for an order for
Receiver to issue a lien against the property and commence foreclosure
proceedings.
In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have yet to
propose a settlement. Defendants request that they be allowed to sell the
property in order to satisfy the obligations. Defendants are not willfully
violating a court order; rather Defendants desire to expedite resolution by
selling the property. 
A reply brief has not been filed.  
    III.           
DISCUSSION
The Court has discretion to consider the Defendants’
untimely filed opposition in favor of the strong policy favoring disposition of
the case on the merits. (Kapitanski
v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32). [“Judges are well aware of the
unnecessary burdens placed on courts and counsel when strict compliance with
local procedural rules results in the expenditure of unnecessary time and money
for the preparation of later section 473 motions.”]. Plaintiff has not shown
any prejudice arising from the late filing. (Id.) The Court has
considered Plaintiff’s reply to avoid any prejudice. 
“Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the
court” is punishable by contempt. The Court determines four issues in a
contempt proceeding: "(1) the rendition of a valid order, (2) actual
knowledge of the order, (3) ability to comply, and (4) willful
disobedience." (Van v. LanguageLine Solutions (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
73, 81.) As the proceeding is criminal in nature, guilt must be established
beyond a reasonable doubt. (Conn v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d
774, 784; Code Civ. Proc., § 1218.)
On December 22, 2023, this Court issued an order approving the
Receiver’s final account. Among other orders made, the Court ordered Defendants
to pay outstanding costs, the Receiver’s fees, and expenses, including the
Receiver’s counsel’s fees along with other fees and expenses outlined in the
final report within five days. (Welch decl., .pdf p. 9)
Defendants do not dispute their obligation to pay for fees and
costs but contend their failure to do so as ordered by the Court was
Plaintiff’s alleged failure to propose settlement. Defendants do not oppose the
request to sell the real property and concede that the sale of the property is crucial
and necessary to meet their financial demands. (Opp. 3:1-5.) 
The order, issued December 22, 2023, required Defendants to pay
fees within five days, notwithstanding ongoing settlement negotiations.
Accordingly, the request to set an Order to Show Cause hearing re: Contempt is
GRANTED. The Court also considers Plaintiff’s request for the Receiver to
record a receiver’s lien and commence foreclosure proceedings. The order of
December 22, 2023, reserved the Court’s jurisdiction over any claims or other
proceedings that may arise. (Welch decl., 3: 3-7.) 
The order appointing receiver authorized the receiver to record a
receiver’s certificate of indebtedness and record a lien against the property.
(Order filed 7/7/23, 8:22-28.) If the debt was not satisfied, the Receiver had
the authority to apply to the court for a hearing to sell the property. (Id.
9:1-7.)  Given the Defendants’ four-month
delay in complying with the Court’s order, the Court also GRANTS this request. 
   IV.           
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion and sets an Order to Show
Cause Re Contempt for August 14, 2024, which is also the date of the Final Status
Conference. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to record a receiver’s lien
against the property and commence foreclosure proceedings. A hearing on the
Order to Show Cause regarding sale of the real property at issue is also set
for the same date and time. 
The Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for imposition of
sanctions for Defendants’ failure to comply with the Court’s December 22, 2023,
order to pay fees, expenses, and costs within five days. The Court will defer
the request for imposition of sanctions to be imposed under Code Civ. Proc., §
177.5 and Code Civ. Proc., § 1218 (a) to be determined at the time of the Final
Status Conference.  
 
                           