  Case Number:  21STCV06963    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 17, 2024               JUDGMENT: July
15, 2024.
                                                           
CASE:                         Griffin M. Bracci v. Orion Housing, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV06963            
 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Griffin M. Bracci
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Orion
Housing, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/23/21: Complaint filed.
·        
07/15/24: Judgment entered for Plaintiff and
against Defendant. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant failed to provide proper notice of construction on the property which
Plaintiff was leasing from Defendant, denying Plaintiff the full use of that
property. 
 
Plaintiff moves for attorney’s fees
following the Court’s granting of summary judgment.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for attorney’s fees
following the Court’s granting of summary judgment pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1021.5.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 states:
 
Upon motion, a court may award
attorneys’ fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in
any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the
general public or a large class of persons,
(b) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement, or of
enforcement by one public entity against another public entity, are such as to
make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of
justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.
 
            A party seeking attorney’s fees
under section 1021.5 need only show that a significant benefit was conferred on
the public, and the extent of that benefit need not be great nor is it required
that the class of persons benefited be readily ascertainable. (Doe v.
Westmont College (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 753, 764.) However, the mere
possibility that an action might result in a substantial public benefit does
not mean that a significant benefit was conferred. (Burgess v. Coronado
Unified School District (2020 59 Cal.App.5th 1, 11.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that he is entitled to an award of attorney’s fees pursuant to this
code provision because this action “was effectively a code enforcement action
which substantially benefits the neighbors and the community where the Subject
Property is located.” (Motion p.5:15-16.) Plaintiff states, under penalty of
perjury, that Defendant began construction on the subject property without
adequate notice and without compliance with all applicable building safety
codes, stored tools and debris in the backyard spaces, rescinded parking spots,
and began construction at 7:00 AM, negatively affecting Plaintiff, neighbors,
and the community. (Declaration of Griffin M. Bracci ISO Mot. ¶¶ 5-9.) These
statements are some evidence of an injury to a subset of the public. Further, Defendant’s
failure to comply with applicable building codes is an established admission
pursuant to the Court’s July 19, 2023 ruling. (See July 19, 2023 Minute Order
on Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions as Admitted; Declaration of Scott J.
Kalter ISO Mot. Exh. A.) At the least, Plaintiff has put forth a colorable
argument that this action resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest, notwithstanding Defendant’s characterization of
this action as merely a breach of contract action. What Plaintiff has not done,
however, is demonstrate a basis to conclude that a significant benefit
has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons in the
enforcement of that right. 
 
            As
Plaintiff recites, “the ‘significant benefit’ that will justify an attorney fee
award need not represent a ‘tangible’ asset or a ‘concrete’ gain but, in some
cases, may be recognized simply from the effectuation of a fundamental
constitutional or statutory policy.” (RiverWatch v. County of San Diego
Dept. of Environmental Health (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 768, 781.) However,
neither of the cases on which Plaintiff relies suggest that the relief obtained
in this action is the type of relief which may be considered a “significant benefit.”
In RiverWatch, for example, the Plaintiffs sought and successfully
obtained a petition for writ of mandate to require further review under CEQA of
a series of administrative decisions relating to planned development of a
landfill and recycling center, and injunctive relief to halt construction and
related activity pending that review. (RiverWatch, supra, 175
Cal.App.4th at 772-74.) The Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s finding
that such relief constituted a significant public benefit in ensuring that the
environmental impacts associated with the project were adequately mitigated. (Id.
at 781.) Similarly, in Robinson v. City of Chowchilla, the plaintiff in
that case conferred a significant benefit on the public by enforcing the procedural
protections under the Peace Officer’s Bill of Rights Act and, critically, because
the litigation resulted in a published decision regarding the meaning and
application of subdivision (c) of section 3304 of the Government Code. (Robinson
v. City of Chowchilla (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 382, 399.) Here, however,
Plaintiff neither sought nor obtained any relief that could be construed as a
benefit for any party other than himself. Plaintiff did not seek injunctive
relief to preclude Defendant from engaging in any harmful conduct or take
affirmative steps to remediate any conditions on the property. Nor did
Plaintiff seek any form of restitution, monetary or otherwise, for other
members of the public. Plaintiff sought and obtained monetary damages for
himself only. That relief does not align with the benefits exemplified in
Plaintiff’s authorities. 
 
            The Court
therefore finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that he has conferred a
significant benefit on the general public or a large class of persons, and
therefore has not demonstrated entitlement to attorney’s fees under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1021.5. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 17,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.