  Case Number:  23CHCV00672    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00672    Demurrer filed: 4/25/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Kristen Wall (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants  FML Management; and Lurline Gardens Limited Housing (collectively,  “Defendants”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiff  demurs to the fifth, twelfth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, nineteenth, and  twenty-fifth affirmative defenses in Defendant’s answer.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to  Defendants’ fifth and nineteenth affirmative defenses, and sustained as to  Defendants’ twelfth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth affirmative defenses with  30 days leave to amend. The demurrer is sustained against Defendants’  twenty-fifth affirmative defense without leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    This is a  landlord-tenant action in which Plaintiff is a tenant in a rental unit located  at 20800 Vintage Street, Unit 10, Chatsworth, California 91311, at a  residential property owned and operated by Defendants. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 4.) Plaintiff  alleges that the subject property holds numerous habitability violations,  “including deteriorated carpet posing safety and trip hazard, deteriorated  bathtub with improper glazing, dysfunctional plumbing systems, deteriorated  plumbing accessories, lack of operable heater and air conditioning, cockroach  infestation, improper weatherproofing, lack of locks on windows, improper fire  protection systems, and general state of deterioration and dilapidation of windows,  doors, cabinets, frames, floors, walls, and ceilings.” (Id. at ¶ 22.)   On 3/8/23,  Plaintiff filed her original complaint against Defendants, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4;  (2) Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (3) Private Nuisance; (4)  Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.; (5) Negligence; (6) Breach of  Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;  (8) Negligence Per Se; (9) Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California  Civil Code § 1750 et seq.; (10) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Tenant  Anti-Harassment Ordinance; and (11) False Advertising, California Business  & Professions Code § 17500 et seq.   On 3/13/24,  Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants,  removing her eighth and ninth causes of action after the Court sustained  Defendants’ demurrer against them without leave to amend. On 4/16/24,  Defendants filed their answer thereto.   On 4/25/24,  Plaintiff filed the instant demurrer against Defendants’ answer. On 7/18/24,  Defendants filed their opposition. On 7/23/24, Plaintiff filed her reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party against whom an answer has  been filed may object to the answer by demurrer, on the basis of any single or  combination the following grounds: “(a) The answer does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a defense; (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in  this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible; (c) Where  the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether  the contract is written or oral.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.20.)   Demurrers against answers are fairly uncommon, and the  determination of whether an answer states a defense is generally governed by  the same principles that apply in determining if a complaint states a cause of  action. (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1965) 226 Cal.App.2d 725,  732.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The sufficiency of the answer requires an examination  of the complaint because the adequacy of the answer must be determined in  reference to the complaint it purports to answer. (Timberidge Enterprises,  Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 880.)   Here, Plaintiff  demurs to the fifth, twelfth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, nineteenth, and  twenty-fifth affirmative defenses in Defendant’s answer, on the bases of  uncertainty and that Defendant fails¿to allege facts sufficient to state a  defense.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 4/18/24, he sent  Defendants’ counsel an email attempting to meet and confer to discuss the  issues raised in the instant demurrer but received no response. (Decl. of Jacob  O. Partiyeli, ¶ 3.) While Defendants contest the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s  meet and confer efforts, “a determination by the court that the meet and confer  process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a  demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)   B.      Third-Party Fault; Intervening Superseding  Cause   Defendants’  fifth affirmative defense alleges Third-Party Fault, and their nineteenth  affirmative defense alleges Intervening Superseding Cause. “Defendants are  informed and believe, and thereupon allege, that the act and/or omission of  third persons and entities, negligent or otherwise, proximately contributed to  the happening of the incident and to the injuries, loss and damage allegedly  sustained by the Plaintiff.” (Answer 27:19–21.) “Defendant is informed and  believes, and thereupon alleges that, the injuries and damages that Plaintiffs  allege, if any, were proximately caused and contributed to by the acts of other  Defendants, persons, and entities, and that said acts were the intervening and  superseding causes of injuries and damages, if any, of which Plaintiffs  complains, and should thus bar Plaintiffs from any recovery from Answering  Defendant.” (Id. at 31:12–16.)   Here,  Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ fifth and nineteenth causes of action are  fatally uncertain because “it cannot be ascertained who the third persons and  entities are alleged to be, or how, when, or in what manner said unspecified  persons or entities caused any damage to Plaintiff. Defendant attributes fault  to third parties, but neither identifies said parties, nor alleges any ultimate  facts showing how, when, or in what manner such unidentified third parties are  responsible for Plaintiff’s damages.” (Dem. 7:8–12.) Generally speaking,  “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly construed  because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that [a party] cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)   Defendants  argue in opposition that “here, Defendants’ allegations in these affirmative  defenses are on information and belief.” (Opp. 3:22.) Defendants further argue  that less specificity is required because Plaintiff “should be presumed to have  superior knowledge of who may have damaged the property interior, who may have  been an unauthorized resident, vendor or other occupant of the property.” (Opp.  3:25–28.)   In applying  the stringent standard for demurrers filed on the grounds of uncertainty, the  Court finds that Defendants’ fifth and nineteenth affirmative defenses are not  “so incomprehensible” that Plaintiff cannot respond to them. Even where a pleading  is in some respects uncertain, ambiguities can be clarified under modern  discovery procedures. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc.  (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to  Defendants’ fifth and nineteenth affirmative defenses. // // // C.     Laches; Unclean Hands; Fraud and Deceit   Defendants’  twelfth affirmative defense alleges Laches, their fifteenth affirmative defense  alleges Unclean Hands, and their sixteenth affirmative defense alleges Fraud  and Deceit. Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendants fail to allege any facts sufficient  to constitute these affirmative defenses. Defendants concede that the demurrer  should be sustained as to these defenses. Accordingly, the Court sustains the  demurrer against Defendants’ twelfth, fifteenth, and sixteenth affirmative  defenses.   D.     Estoppel   Defendants’  fourteenth affirmative defense alleges Estoppel. “Generally speaking, four  elements must be present in order to apply the doctrine of equitable estoppel:  (1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend  that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting  the estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the other party  must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the  conduct to his injury.” (Driscoll v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 67  Cal.2d 297, 305.)   Here, Defendants  allege that “Plaintiffs by virtue of their own act and/or the acts or omissions  of others chargeable to them, or by action of law or by other conduct, are  estopped from maintaining the action filed in this case or obtaining the relief  sought from Answering Defendant.” (Answer 30:10–12.) Plaintiff argues that “the  Fourteenth Affirmative Defenses [sic] pleads no statement or conduct of  Plaintiff which was intended to, and which did, in fact, induce Defendants to  rely to their detriment.” (Dem. 8:22–25.)   The Court  notes that Defendants fail to address their fourteenth affirmative defense in  their opposition. Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that  Defendants fail to allege any of the elements of equitable estoppel.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer against Defendants’ fourteenth  affirmative defense.   E.      Code of Civil Procedure Section 1038   Defendants’  twenty-fifth affirmative defense alleges that they are “entitled to  reimbursement of defense costs pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure  §1038.” (Answer 32:19–20.) This statute applies to “any civil proceeding under  the Government Claims Act … or for express or implied indemnity or for  contribution in any civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1038, subd. (a).)   Plaintiff  argues that this affirmative defense is inapplicable because “the present  lawsuit does not involve any claim under the Government Claims Act, and  Plaintiff herein is not seeking any form of indemnity or contribution.” (Dem.  10:20–21.) Defendants concede as such, and purport to withdraw this affirmative  defense. (Opp. 4:15–18.) Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer against  Defendants’ twenty-fifth affirmative defense without leave to amend. // // // F.      Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the opposing party to show the  court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)   Here, the  Court notes that Defendants specifically request leave to amend in the event  the Court sustain the instant demurrer, and that this is the first demurrer  brought against Defendants’ answer. Therefore, under the Court’s liberal policy  of granting leave to amend, Defendants are granted 30 days leave to amend the answer  to cure the defects set forth above.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled as to Defendants’ fifth and  nineteenth affirmative defenses, and sustained as to Defendants’ twelfth,  fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth affirmative defenses with 30 days leave to  amend. The demurrer is sustained against Defendants’ twenty-fifth affirmative  defense without leave to amend.