  Case Number:  23CHCV00418    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  F51 
FEBRUARY 21,
2024
 

MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
ORDER
(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One)

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00418

 
Motion
filed: 10/3/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Emmanuel Gutierrez-Munoz; Kevin Zaguilan; and Reyna Espino (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: A
protective order, as proposed, applicable to Defendant’s documents produced in
response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted in part. The Court enters the proposed protective order without
Defendant’s modifications:
(1)  
Requiring
non-lawyer personnel to sign and execute Exhibit A to the protective order;
(2)  
Removing
Paragraph 7f. regarding mock jury participants from the protective order; and
(3)  
All
modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or
around 7/14/19, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty.
(FAC ¶¶ 5, 15.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
but not limited to structural, engine, brakes, interior, SRS, engine,
transmission, and exterior.” (Id. at ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
failed “to conform the Subject Vehicle to the express warranty, or to promptly
issue restitution pursuant to the Song Beverly Act, [therefore] Defendant is in
violation of the Song Beverly Act.”  (Id.
at ¶ 22.) 
 
On 2/15/23, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint,
alleging against the dealership and manufacturer defendants the following
causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2; and (3) Negligent
Repair (against the dealership defendant). On 8/10/23, Plaintiffs filed their
operative first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same causes of action
against the same defendants.
 
On 5/3/23, Plaintiffs served their first set of Requests for
Production of Documents on Defendant. (Decl. of Zachary Powell ¶ 3.) On 6/6/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.) On 9/29/23, Plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel further responses to their first set of RFPs.
 
On 10/3/23, Defendant filed the instant motion for a
protective order. On 2/7/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 2/14/24,
Defendant filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
When document requests have been
propounded, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060,
subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Id. at
subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendant “seeks the entry of a Protective
Order to protect Ford’s confidential, proprietary and trade secret information
and materials, which are the subject of certain discovery requests in this
case. Plaintiffs do not dispute the need for a protective order; they only
disagree over the form of the protective order that should be entered for use
in this case.” (Def.’s Mot. 4:3–6.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion for protective order must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.060, subd. (a); 2016.040.)
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel declares
that on 1/10/22, the parties began their meet and confer efforts regarding a
proposed protective order. (Decl. of Hannah M. Biemann ¶ 3.) The parties continued their discussions but
were unable to come to a resolution. (Id. at ¶¶ 3–6.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel
has satisfied the meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.090.
 
B.    
Timeliness
 
As a preliminary matter,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s motion should be denied because Defendant “failed
to promptly move for a protective order.” (Pls.’ Opp. 3:8, citing Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant “unilaterally
conditioned production of responsive documents on the entry of a protective
order yet delayed in filing any motion.” (Id. at 3:11–12.)
 
On reply, Defendant observes
that Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060 “is not a mandate that a
party ‘must’ or ‘shall’ move for protective order,” but that it may promptly
do so. (Def.’s Reply 2:14–15.) The Court agrees. Defendant
further notes that “‘the promptness of the request [for protective order] turns
on the facts.’” (Id. at 2:16, quoting Nativi v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 317.) As Defendant observes,
“here, Ford attempted to negotiate in good faith with Plaintiffs’ counsel in an
effort to reach agreement on a protective order.” (Id. at 2:18–19.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the instant motion is not
untimely.
 
C.    Defendant’s Proposed Modifications
 
Defendant’s proposed
protective order makes the following modifications to the Los Angeles Superior
Court Model Protective Order:
 
·        
“Paragraph 7:
Ford’s revisions clarify sub-section (b), confirming that the term ‘affiliated
attorneys’ mean attorneys in the same firm. Ford’s revision also provides that
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s confidential documents
must sign Exhibit A. Ford proposes a revision to sub-section (d) to include
videographers and litigation support companies (along with court reporters),
who may have access to Ford’s confidential documents by virtue of their
retention in a case. Ford removed sub-section (f), which permitted mock jurors
to access Ford’s confidential documents because Ford has no ability to identify
such persons or ensure (or confirm) their compliance. Ford also revised
sub-section (g) to include nonattorneys with experts, and to provide that
Ford’s confidential documents may not be shown to competitors of Ford.
·        
Paragraph 8: Ford’s revisions
provide that the receiving party may not post Ford’s confidential documents to
any website or advertise Ford’s documents for sale. These provisions are
reasonable and necessary to protect Ford’s documents from improper
dissemination.
·        
Paragraph 21: Ford’s revisions
clarify the process for Plaintiffs’ counsel to return or destroy Ford’s
confidential documents at the conclusion of the case and require that all of
Ford’s confidential documents be returned or destroyed when the case is over.”
(Def.’s Mot. 6:25–7:15 [emphasis in original].)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the instant motion is unnecessary because “previously, Ford proposed
and agreed to the model protective order in another case that was litigated
between Plaintiffs’ counsel and Ford.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:2–3.) Plaintiffs argue
that therefore, “Ford does not provide good cause showing that the lack of
additional modifications would cause any harm or prejudice to Ford.” (Id. at
4:11–12.)
 
However, as
Defendant observes, “Plaintiffs’ claim that Ford previously agreed to the model
protective order ‘in another case,’ in November of 2021, is immaterial.” (Def.’s
Reply 3:11–12.) The Court agrees with Defendant that “whether Ford entered into
a protective order in another case is governed by the facts of that particular
case,” and is therefore not relevant to the Court’s below analysis of the
instant motion. (Id. at 3:14–15.)
 
1.     
Paragraph 7
 
a.      
Affiliated Attorneys
 
“Ford’s revisions clarify sub-section (b) [of Paragraph 7],
confirming that the term ‘affiliated attorneys’ mean attorneys in the same
firm.” (Def.’s Mot. 6:25–26.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “this
limitation could conceivably prevent Plaintiffs’ counsel from disclosing the
documents to any other attorneys that serve as Plaintiffs’ co-counsel” or
outside trial counsel. (Pls.’ Opp. 4:24–28.) “Plaintiffs’ co-counsel—whether in
the same firm or not—should be permitted to use the documents subject to the
terms of the LASC model protective order.” (Id. at 5:6–8.)
 
Defendant
argues on reply that Plaintiffs’ concerns are moot because “any co-counsel is
by definition counsel of record. If the attorneys are of record, then they are
bound by the protective order as revised by Ford.” (Def.’s Reply 4:9–11.)
Defendant further argues that the subject modification is necessary because “without
further clarification, Ford’s documents could be shared with multiple attorneys
who have no responsibility to protect Ford’s documents.” (Id. at 4:16–17.)
 
The Court
agrees with Defendant and finds that the additional language does not prohibit
the dissemination of the protected documents from Plaintiffs’ co-counsel or
trial counsel, as they are considered “attorneys of record” within the scope of
the protective order.
 
b.     
Office Personnel
 
“Ford’s revision [to Paragraph 7] also provides that
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s confidential documents
must sign Exhibit A.” (Def.’s Mot. 6:26–28.) The form attached as
Exhibit A to the proposed protective order appears to be an acknowledgment and
confidentiality agreement. (Ex. G to Biemann Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that “because the confidential documents would be stored within the
individual case file and all litigation employees have access to cases [sic]
files,” requiring each of the firm’s employees to sign the acknowledgment form
would result in a burdensome “logistical nightmare.” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:16–21.)
Plaintiffs further argue that “the protective order already provides that
Plaintiffs’ counsel and the firm, as a whole, agree to be bound by the
protective order. Ford gains no additional protection by then requiring all
attorneys to sign the Exhibit A form.” (Id. at 6:2–4.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs and finds that the burden
of requiring every employee at Plaintiffs’ counsel’s law firm to sign the
acknowledgment form is overly burdensome, particularly where the protective
order already applies to “paralegals, clerical and secretarial staff
employed by such attorneys who are actively involved in the Proceedings and are
not employees of any Party.” (Ex. G to Biemann
Decl.) Accordingly, the Court strikes the following
language from Paragraph 7b. of the proposed protective order: “and
required to execute Exhibit A agreeing to be bound by the terms of this
protective order prior to disclosure.” (Ibid.)
 
c.      
Mock Jurors
 
Defendant “removed mock jury participants from this list
because Ford has no ability to confirm the identity of such persons or to track
or trace their access if Ford’s documents were to become public because of
disclosure in this case.” (Def.’s Mot. 9:15–18.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the modifications
would cause undue burden on Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare for trial if they
wished to use mock jury participants.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:7–9.) “The LASC model
protective order requires that mock jury participants sign the Exhibit A
attachment, which requires them to provide their address and telephone number.
So it is unclear how Ford would be unable to identify these people if
confidential materials were disclosed to them.” (Id. at 6:21–23.) 
 
Defendant argues in opposition that mock jurors should be
prohibited from accessing the subject documents because “Ford has no way to
confirm the accuracy of their contact information if a problem arises.” (Def.’s
Reply 5:7–8.) The Court finds this argument immaterial and agrees with
Plaintiffs that restricting mock jury participants from accessing the
confidential documents would improperly burden Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare
their case for trial. Accordingly, the Court reincorporates the following language
Defendant removed from Paragraph 7 of the proposed protective order: “f.
mock jury participants, provided, however, that prior to the Disclosure of
Confidential Materials to any such mock jury participant, counsel for the Party
making the Disclosure shall deliver a copy of this Stipulation and Protective
Order to such person, shall explain that such person is bound to follow the
terms of such Order, and shall secure the signature of such person on a
statement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (Ex. G to Biemann Decl.)
 
2.     
Paragraph 8
 
Paragraph 8 of the original protective order states the
following: “Confidential Materials shall be used by the persons
receiving them only for the purposes of preparing for, conducting,
participating in the conduct of, and/or prosecuting and/or defending the
Proceeding, and not for any business or other purpose whatsoever.” (Id.
at ¶ 8 [emphasis added].) Defendant added language to this paragraph
prohibiting the dissemination of the protected documents on any website, or by
sale. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the proposed language is unnecessary because “the LASC model
protective order already provides that” the confidential materials shall not be
used “for any business or other purpose whatsoever.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:17–20,
citing Ex. G to Biemann Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant argues in reply that “Paragraph
8 does not address the posting of or sale of Ford confidential documents. As
such, Ford’s revisions are necessary.” (Def.’s Reply 5:20–21.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s added language “does not
inhibit Plaintiffs’ ability to litigate this matter in any way because it
continues to allow for disclosure to counsel for use in this case and are
necessary given Ford’s interest in protecting its confidential business and
trade secret information from unfettered disclosure.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:16–19.)
3.     
Paragraph 21
 
Defendant’s modifications to
Paragraph 21 of the proposed protective order “require that all of
Ford’s confidential documents be returned or destroyed when the case is over.”
(Id. at 7:13–15.) Plaintiffs oppose this modification, arguing that “Plaintiffs’
counsel should be entitled to a complete copy of the case file. Because these
documents would still be subject to the protective order, Ford cannot
articulate any benefit that it obtains through this modification.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:1–3.)
Defendant argues in reply that “without this provision, Plaintiffs’ counsel can
keep Ford’s confidential documents in perpetuity, which affords Ford no ability
to track their location and use over time.” (Def.’s Reply 5:27–28.)
 
The Court finds that the language in the original
Model Protective Order sufficiently provides for a procedure to return or
destroy the confidential materials following the conclusion of the litigation.
Any remaining documents may, upon, written request, be returned or destroyed,
with the exception “that counsel for each Party may maintain in its files, in
continuing compliance with the terms of this Stipulation and Protective Order,
all work product, and one copy of each pleading filed with the Court.” (Ex. Ex.
G to Biemann Decl., ¶ 21.) Because any remaining work product or pleading is
still subject to the terms of the protective order, the Court finds that
Defendant’s interests in its confidential materials are sufficiently protected.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court strikes Defendant’s
proposed modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.
 
D.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2025.420,
subd. (h), 2030.090, subd. (d), 2031.060, subd. (h).) Additionally, “the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, as the Court finds that
neither party has succeeded in bringing or opposing the instant motion, the
Court declines to impose monetary sanctions against either party.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted in part. The Court enters the proposed
protective order without Defendant’s modifications:
(4)  
Requiring
non-lawyer personnel to sign and execute Exhibit A to the protective order;
(5)  
Removing
Paragraph 7f. regarding mock jury participants from the protective order; and
(6)  
All
modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV00418

 
Motion
filed: 9/29/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Emmanuel Gutierrez-Munoz; Kevin Zaguilan; and Reyna Espino (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of
Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, specifically: Request Nos. 16, 19–29, and 31. Plaintiffs further request
monetary sanctions to be imposed against Defendant and its counsel in the total
amount of $2,865.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to
Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Request Nos. Request Nos. 16, 19–29, and 31 within 30 days. The Court
imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $500.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or
around 7/14/19, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty.
(FAC ¶¶ 5, 15.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
but not limited to structural, engine, brakes, interior, SRS, engine,
transmission, and exterior.” (Id. at ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
failed “to conform the Subject Vehicle to the express warranty, or to promptly
issue restitution pursuant to the Song Beverly Act, [therefore] Defendant is in
violation of the Song Beverly Act.”  (Id.
at ¶ 22.) 
 
On 2/15/23, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint,
alleging against the dealership and manufacturer defendants the following
causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2; and (3) Negligent
Repair (against the dealership defendant). On 8/10/23, Plaintiffs filed their
operative first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same causes of action
against the same defendants.
 
On 5/3/23, Plaintiffs served their first set of Requests for
Production of Documents on Defendant. (Decl. of Zachary Powell ¶ 3.) On 6/6/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
 
On 9/29/23, Plaintiffs filed the instant motions to compel further
responses to their first set of RFPs. On 1/24/24, Defendant filed its
opposition. On 1/30/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law requires a
responding party to respond to each request for production of documents with
either a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or an objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210,
subd. (a).) 
 
If the response includes an
objection to the demand in part, it must also include a statement of compliance
or noncompliance as set forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).)
Additionally, the response must (1) identify the particular document that falls within the category of the request to which the
objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and
specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a request for production if it
decides that “an objection in the response is without merit or too general.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek to
compel Defendant’s additional responses to Request Nos. 16, 19–29, and
31, arguing that Defendant’s objections thereto are
without merit. The subject requests seek Defendant’s internal policies,
procedures, and guidelines with respect to warranty claims and vehicle
repurchasing under the Song-Beverly Act. (Ex. A to Powell Decl.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares
that on 8/22/23, 9/8/23, 9/13/23, 9/14/23, and 9/21/23, counsel for both
parties met and conferred regarding the issues set forth in the instant motions
but were unable to come to a resolution. (Powell Decl. ¶¶ 5–10.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel
has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision
(b)(2).
//
//
//
//
B.     Defendant’s Objections
 
Here, Defendant responded to
the subject Requests with a statement of partial compliance, and partial
objection “as seeking irrelevant documents, particularly because it is
not limited to a reasonable or relevant timeframe, to any particular warranty
claim at issue, to Plaintiffs, to the subject vehicle, or to any particular
vehicle, and because there is no allegation regarding the warranty policy and
procedure manuals in this case.” (Ex. B to Powell Decl.) “Ford further objects
to this Request because it seeks documents protected from disclosure by the
attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine.” (Ibid.)
 
1.     
Scope/Relevance
 
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonable calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that the “requests seeking documents
evidencing Ford’s policies, procedures, and instructions are relevant because
they would show whether Ford’s policies are meant to hinder consumers from
seeking their statutory remedies, whether they comport with Ford’s duties under
the Song-Beverly Act including whether they seek to provide an inferior remedy
than Ford is required to provide, what criteria Ford uses for determining
whether a vehicle qualifies for repurchase or replacement, or whether Ford has
even enacted any policies or procedures for dealing with its affirmative
obligations under the Act.” (Pl.’s Mot. 5:16–22.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that “Plaintiffs also have
failed to demonstrate that the documents they seek are relevant to their
claims, much less good cause requiring Ford to produce information that has no
relationship to the repairs performed on the subject vehicle.” (Def.’s Opp. 11:10–12.)
Plaintiffs argue on reply that Defendant improperly and “unilaterally
decided which documents it would produce without indicating that it is
producing the whole universe of responsive documents. For some requests, it has
unilaterally limited the years for which it is willing to produce responsive
documents. Plaintiffs’ requests are already reasonably tailored to certain
years to avoid undue burden on Ford.” (Pl.’s Reply 2:18–23.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has provided sufficient
cause for production of the subject documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).) In order to obtain civil penalties under the Song-Beverly Act, a
plaintiff must establish that the defendant’s failure to comply was willful,
which may be based on the defendant’s knowledge of a certain defect. (Civ. Code
§ 1794, subd. (c).) Information regarding vehicles other than Plaintiff’s is
relevant to the subject matter of this action as it could assist Plaintiff in
proving Defendant’s willful violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. Documents responsive to these requests may reasonably lead to the
discovery of information as to the nature and duration of the defects,
Defendant’s knowledge of the defects, and Defendant’s inability to repair the
defects.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Defendant’s relevance objections to Plaintiffs’ Request Nos. 16,
19–29, and 31 are without merit.
 
2.     
Privilege
 
“If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a
claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall
provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits
of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)
 
Here, Defendant objected to
the subject document requests on the bases of attorney-client and attorney work
product privileges. However, as Plaintiff observes, Defendant’s responses do
not mention any factual information supporting its claims of privilege, nor has
Defendant produced a privilege log. (Pl.’s Mot. 7:20–23.) Plaintiff therefore argues that “Ford’s privilege
and privacy objections should be overruled or Ford should be compelled to
provide a privilege log for each of those responses.” (Id. at 8:1–3.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that “because
Plaintiffs’ Requests are so broad that they implicate information protected
from discovery by the attorney client privilege and work product doctrine, Ford
properly objected on this basis.” (Def.’s Opp. 13:13–15.) However, as
Plaintiffs observe on reply, “because Ford failed to produce a declaration
supporting these claims of privilege or a privilege log, Ford’s objections are
insufficient.” (Pl.’s Reply 3:11–13.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that to the
extent that Defendant intends to withhold any responsive documents on the basis
of any privilege, Defendant is ordered to produce a privilege log providing
further details.
 
C.   
Protective Order
 
In its responses to the
subject requests, Defendant agreed to produce certain responsive documents
subject to a protective order. Plaintiffs assert that “Ford has failed
to move for the entry of a protective order and cannot unilaterally condition
production of responsive documents on a protective order.” (Pl.’s Mot.
8:16–18.) On 10/3/23, after Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion to compel, Defendant filed its motion for protective order.
Defendant contends that “the documents identified by Ford contain Ford’s
sensitive, confidential, and proprietary information.” (Def.’s Opp. 12:9–11.)
 
            See Court’s Tentative Ruling
regarding the Protective Order dated February 21, 2024.
 
D.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs request
sanctions in the total amount of $2,865.00 to be imposed on Defendant and its
counsel. This amount includes: (1) 2.6 hours of Plaintiffs’ attorney’s time
working on this motion, at his hourly billing rate of $425.00 per hour; (2) an
anticipated 2 hours reviewing Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply; (3)
an anticipated 2 hours preparing for and attending the instant hearing; and (4)
a $60.00 filing fee. (Powell Decl. ¶¶ 12–14.) Defendant argues in opposition
that it acted with substantial justification in objecting to the overbroad
requests. (Def.’s Opp. 14:14–18.)
 
In denying the instant
motion, the Court finds it reasonable to award Plaintiffs sanctions against Defendant
in the amount of $500.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Request Nos. Request
Nos. 16, 19–29,
and 31 within 30 days. The
Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $500.00.