 Case Number:  23TRCV01212    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARTIN
  HUTTO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01212




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: 
(1)
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES—EMPLOYMENT LAW
(2)
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION 




 
CITY
  OF TORRANCE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 22, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Torrance (“City”)
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Martin Hutto 
(1)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories—Employment Law
(2)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission 
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories—Employment is DENIED.
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFAs is DENIED.
            Defendant
and Defense counsel are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,500 within
20 days.  
BACKGROUND
            On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this action against his employers, Defendants City of Torrance and Torrance
Police Department alleging (1) violation of the Public Safety Officers
Procedural Bill of Rights Act, Government Code §3300, et seq.; (2) declaratory
relief; and (3) Labor Code §1102.5.  
            Plaintiff alleges that he was
investigated and given educational reminders in connection with two arrests he
made.  Plaintiff arrested suspects in a
catalytic converter theft on May 17, 2021 and commented to one of the
arrestees, “Welcome to Torrance.” 
Plaintiff was investigated for the comment and invoked his rights under
the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act (POBRA) and/or the
Meyers-Milias Brown Act, including use of a representative of his choice.  Defendants ultimately concluded the
investigation and gave Plaintiff an educational reminder for misconduct based
on the “Welcome to Torrance” comment. 
            Plaintiff arrested a suspect who was
disturbing the peace on March 4, 2022. 
During the arrest, Plaintiff used force against the suspect, who
ultimately stabbed Plaintiff’s partner in the clavical area with a pen and struck
Plaintiff in the head.  Plaintiff was administratively
investigated for his use of force during the arrest.  Defendant ultimately concluded that Plaintiff
should be given an educational reminder to be more thorough in his reports of
use of force.
            Plaintiff filed a personnel
complaint against Chief Hart for inappropriate comments and social media posts
on November 2, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges Torrance
Police Department revived the Internal Affairs investigation against him after
his complaint.  
            Plaintiff alleges Defendants
violated his rights under POBRA, including by failing to provide proper notice
of the nature of the investigations, subjecting Plaintiff to punitive action
and/or threatening him with punitive action for exercising his rights under
POBRA and placing comments adverse to his interest in his personnel file.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants
committed whistleblower retaliation in response to his complaints about Chief
Hart’s inappropriate comments and social media posts.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP
§2030.300
(a)
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any
of the following apply:
            (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
            (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate.
            (3) An objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general.
(b)(1)
A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.
(2)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the interrogatories.
(d)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
(e)
If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to
interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in
addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
 
CCP
§2033.290
(a)
On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:
            (1) An answer to a particular
request is evasive or incomplete.
            (2) An objection to a particular
request is without merit or too general.
(b)(1)
A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.
            (2) In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later
date to which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the requesting party waives any right to compel further response to
the requests for admission.
(d)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(e)
If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to requests
for admission, the court may order that the matters involved in the requests be
deemed admitted. In lieu of, or in addition to, this order, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer the interrogatories and RFAs. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct.
(Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
DISCUSSION
            Parties’
Positions
            In
separate motions, Defendant City of Torrance moves to compel further responses
to (1) Form Interrogatories—Employment Nos. 201.3 and 207.2 and (2) RFA Nos. 3
and 4.  Defendant argues the objections
asserted to the Form Interrogatories and RFAs are meritless. 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s objection to Form Rog No. 201.3 on grounds that the City
failed to list the “Adverse Employment Action” is baseless, because it is only
Plaintiff who knows of the alleged adverse employment actions that caused him
to file this complaint in the first place. 

            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s objection that the interrogatories seek information protected
by the Pitchess process is baseless, because Plaintiff waived any Pitchess
confidentiality.  Defendant argues
the Form Interrogatories 201.3 and 201.7 do not seek information protected by Pitchess,
which protects peace officer personnel records and records maintained by any
state or local agency.
            Defendant
argues further responses must be compelled in order to achieve the purpose of
discovery.  Defendant argues the Form
Interrogatories were drafted by the Judicial Council specifically for
employment actions and were intended to avoid disputes about wording.
            Defendant
makes the same arguments in support of its motion to compel further responses
to the RFAs.  Defendant argues the RFAs
seek relevant information and are not subject to a Pitchess objection.  Defendant argues the RFAs do not seek Pitchess
information, and any Pitchess confidentiality has been waived by the
Plaintiff by filing this action.  Defendant
argues the remaining objections based on the RFAs being “compound,” seeking
discovery on third parties based on the “any agents and assigns” language, the
RFAs calling for legal conclusions and being vague and ambiguous are
meritless.  
            In
connection with each motion, Defendant asks that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel be sanctioned.  Defendant asks
that the Court impose sanctions in the amount of $3,820 in connection with the
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories-Employment and $3,750
in connection with the Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFAs.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the discovery was improperly electronically
served.  Plaintiff argues he never agreed
to such service and such service can only be stipulated to or ordered by the
Court.  
            Plaintiff
argues Form Interrogatories 201.3 and 207.2 both trigger the Pitchess statute.  Plaintiff argues this Court has already
ordered that all information contained in confidential personnel files of
Plaintiff and/or other officers should be filed under seal.  Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to cite any
authority holding that Pitchess protections are waived by an officer
filing a complaint against his employer. 
Plaintiff argues both the public agency and the subject officer hold the
confidentiality privilege established by Penal Code 832.7.  Plaintiff argues Defendant can only obtain
information contained in the personnel files of a peace officer through a Pitchess
motion and subject to the protections of a protective order pursuant to
Evidence Code §1045(d) and (e). 
Plaintiff argues no such motion has been brought and Defendant cannot
obtain the requested information.  
            Plaintiff
argues both Form Rog 201.3 and 207.2 trigger Pitchess.  Plaintiff argues 201.3 asks questions
regarding adverse employment actions against Plaintiff, which is exactly the
type of information subject to Pitchess. 
Plaintiff argues 202.2 asks for information regarding Plaintiff’s
complaint about unlawful conduct towards him, which again triggers Pitchess because
such information is contained in the personnel file of a peace officer.  
            Plaintiff
argues 201.3 is also defective, because Defendant did not list the “adverse
employment actions” referred to in the interrogatory.  Plaintiff argues Form Rog 201.3 specifically
requires Defendant to list the “adverse employment” actions referenced. 
            Plaintiff
argues the objections to the RFAs are also meritorious.  Plaintiff argues Defendant’s answer never put
at issue that Plaintiff allegedly shoved, pushed or guided Tammi Jackson to a
bench when she was arrested.  Plaintiff
argues the RFA references a policy, which means it is not full and complete in
and of itself.  Plaintiff agues the RFA
also defines Plaintiff as including his agents and assigns, making it compound,
disjunctive and disjunctive.  Plaintiff
argues that, as with the Form Interrogatories, the RFAs seek information
contained in a peace officer’s personnel file thereby triggering Pitchess.  Plaintiff argues there is no authority
provided that he waived Pitchess by filing the complaint.  As to the RFAs, Plaintiff asserts the same Pitchess
arguments he asserted to the Form Interrogatories.  
            Plaintiff
argues that, as to RFA No. 4, he was required to reference the Torrance Police
Department Policy Manual to answer. 
Plaintiff argues an incomplete copy of the Policy Manual was attached to
the RFAs that was dated after the subject incidents.  Plaintiff also argues whether he believes
that an educational reminder falls under the disciplinary policy of Torrance
Police Department is irrelevant to the action. 
Plaintiff argues RFA No. 4 also does not define “nonpunitive” or
“corrective.”  
            Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s request for sanctions must be denied.  Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to comply
with the notice requirements of CCP §2023.040. 
Plaintiff argues the objections were not meritless and Plaintiff was
justified in opposing.  Plaintiff argues
the amount of sanctions requested for the motions is clearly inflated and
should be denied on that ground alone.  
            On
reply, Defendant argues the Pitchess objections are without merit.  Defendant argues the interrogatories seek
information regarding Plaintiff’s contentions in this lawsuit.  Defendant argues the interrogatories are not
seeking information from personnel records or an officer’s recollection
of information in personnel records.  Defendant
argues that, like the attorney-client privilege, the confidentiality protection
under Pitchess does not apply to the underlying facts.  Defendant argues Pitchess only applies
to protect records and information contained in the peace officer personnel
file, not the details surrounding employment complaints.  Defendant argues the fact that it asserted a Pitchess
objection in an administrative proceeding on behalf of the Chief of Police is
irrelevant to whether Plaintiff’s Pitchess objection is valid.  
            Defendant
argues that for purposes of Form Rog 201.3, only Plaintiff knows the “adverse
employment actions” that he complaining of. 
Defendant argues the motion was also timely filed on April 2, 2024,
because April 1, 2024 was a court holiday.
            Defendant
argues that RFA Nos. 3 and 4 are directly relevant to the complaint and defense
raised thereto.  Defendant argues the
RFAs were also clear and unambiguous. 
Defendant argues the terms “shove” and “push” are not uncertain nor do
they require a special definition. 
Defendant reiterates, as with the Form Rogs, that the Pitchess
objection is meritless. Defendant argues the Court should order Plaintiff to
respond on behalf of himself alone, if it finds the “agents and/or assigns”
language improper.  
            Defendant
argues RFA No. 4 does not rely on a copy of the policy that was implemented
after the incidents.  Defendant argues
the footer date is the date on which the manual was reissued.  Defendant argues Plaintiff should also be
familiar with the policy and he should not need to reference any outside
documents to answer the RFA.  Defendant
argues the use of the terms “nonpunitive” and “corrective action” does not
render the RFAs ambiguous, as those terms have commonly understood
meanings.  
            Defendant
argues the RFAs, like the interrogatories, were properly served by email.  Defendant argues the motions were also timely
filed on April 2, 2024. 
            Procedural
Issues
            The
discovery requests were properly served by email pursuant to CRC Rule 2.251(c)
and Los Angeles Superior Court rule 3.4. 
“Except when personal service is otherwise required by statute or rule,
a party or other person that is required to file documents electronically in an
action must also serve documents and accept service of documents electronically
from all other parties or persons, unless: (A) 
The court orders otherwise, or (B) 
The action includes parties or persons that are not required to file or
serve documents electronically, including self-represented parties or other
self-represented persons; those parties or other persons are to be served by
non-electronic methods unless they affirmatively consent to electronic service.”  (CRC Rule 2.251(c).)  Electronic filing is mandatory in civil
actions in Los Angeles County. (LASC Rule. 3.4(a).)
            The
motions were also timely filed on April 2, 2024.  The responses in question were served by
email on February 12, 2024. (Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Rogs,
Wong Dec., ¶6; Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFAs, Wong Dec., ¶6.)  The motions were therefore due 45 days plus 2
court days after February 12, 2024, which would be April 2, 2024 due to the
court holiday on April 1, 2024.  
            Pitchess
objections to Form Rogs 201.3, 207.2 and RFA No. 3
            “In
any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial
officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of
the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the
discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court
or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has
custody and control of the records, as follows:
(1) In a civil action, the written notice shall be
given at the times prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005 of the Code of
Civil Procedure.” (Evid. C. §1043(a).)  
            “The law governing protection for the privacy of
police officers in California is found in a series of statutes commonly
referred to as ‘Pitchess statutes,’ specifically Penal Code sections 832.7 and
832.8 and Evidence Code sections 1043 and 1045.”  (Pasadena Police Officers Assn. v.
Superior Court (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 268, 285.)  “The
statutory scheme does not leave room for doubt. 
Under subdivision (a) of section 832.7 of the Penal Code, ‘[p]eace
officer personnel records ... or information obtained from these records, are
confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or civil proceeding
except by discovery pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code....’
(Emphasis added.) Section 832.8 of the Penal Code explains that, as used in
section 832.7, ‘personnel records’ means any file maintained by the employing
agency under the officer's name and containing records relating to ‘marital
status, family members, educational and employment history, home addresses, or
similar information,’ medical history, election of employee benefits,
complaints or discipline, and ‘[a]ny other information the disclosure of which
would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.’  Subdivision (a) of section 1043 provides, as
relevant, that ‘[i]n any case in which discovery ... is sought of peace officer
personnel records ... or information from those records, the party seeking the
discovery ... shall file a written motion with the appropriate court ... [and
give] written notice to the governmental agency which has custody and control
of the records....’ (Emphasis added.) Subdivision (b) of section 1043 lists the
items required to support the motion, including a showing by affidavit of ‘good
cause for the discovery ... sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation....’” (Hackett v.
Supr. Ct. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 96, 98-99 (officer’s objection
to interrogatories seeking basic contact information and employment information
based on Pitchess was proper, even if same information was obtainable
elsewhere.)  
            “The
fact that information in an officer's personnel records may also be found in an
unprotected source does not impact the confidentiality of the personnel records
themselves. The Pitchess statutes create a privilege for all information in
peace officers' personnel files without regard to information found elsewhere.   The purpose and policy of the Pitchess
statutes mandates that waiver of the privilege must be express. This is true
even where, as here, the officers themselves placed the information in the
public domain.  [¶]  Absent an express waiver of the privilege
with respect to the confidential personnel information found in the Report, the
officers retain Pitchess protections as to that information, even if the
information is the same as or similar to information available elsewhere in the
public domain.”  (Pasadena Police
Officers Assn. v. Supr. Ct. (“Pasadena”) (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th
268, 294.)
            Plaintiff objects to Form
Rog 201.3, 207.2 and RFA No. 3 on grounds that it seeks “information” contained
in confidential peace officer personnel files and therefore the information is
only obtainable pursuant to a Pitchess motion brought pursuant to
Evidence Code §1043.  The Court
agrees.  
            Form
Rog 201.3 asks if there were any other “adverse employment actions” and then
contains subparts seeking the reasons for the adverse employment action, the
contact information of each person making such adverse employment decision, the
contact information of anyone who provided information relied on to take such
action and the identity of all documents relied on in making such adverse
employment action.  
            Plaintiff
alleges whistleblower retaliation. 
Plaintiff alleges he filed a complaint with Defendants regarding
retaliation.  As such, this information
would be part of his personnel file. 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess objection is therefore proper as to Form Rog
201.3.  
            Form
Rog 207.2 likewise pertains to information that would be contained in
Plaintiff’s personnel file.  207.2 asks
if Plaintiff every complained to the Defendants about any of the unlawful
conduct alleged in the pleadings. 
Plaintiff alleges that he did complain to Defendants about the alleged
unlawful conduct and that internal investigations were undertaken in
response.  Again, such information would
be contained in Plaintiff’s personnel file. 
Plaintiff’ Pitchess objection is proper as to Form Rog 207.2.
            RFA
No. 3 asks “Admit that YOU failed to include in YOUR supplemental report the
fact YOU shoved Tammi Jackson towards the bench in the jail booking room while
she was handcuffed.”  (Plaintiff’s
Opposition, 3:16-19.)  Defendant’s
separate statement only contains a redacted version of the RFA but Plaintiff’s
opposition sets for the RFA in full.  Whether
Plaintiff shoved Jackson towards the bench in the jail booking room is
information that is contained in the personnel file of Plaintiff and
potentially other peace officers, as reflected by Defendant’s decision to
redact the RFA itself.  Plaintiff’s
objection based on Pitchess is proper as to RFA No. 3.  
            Defendant
also fails to cite any authority holding that an officer implicitly waives any Pitchess
protection by filing an lawsuit against his or her employer.  Moreover, such a position would be contrary
to the discussion of waiver in Pasadena. 

            Defendant
fails to cite to any authority analogizing Pitchess to the
attorney-client privilege, such that underlying facts surrounding a protected
communication or underlying facts in the communication are not protected.  In fact, such a rule would seem counter to
the rules set forth in Pasadena and Hackett, which hold that even
information that is available elsewhere can only be discovered pursuant to the Pitchess
procedure if it can be found in the personnel file of a peace officer.  
            Objections
to Form Rog 201.3 based on failure to list “adverse employment actions” 
            Plaintiff’s objection to
Form Rog 201.3 on grounds that Defenant failed to complete the interrogatory is
proper.  Form Rog 201.3 asks that the
Defendant list all the actions it intended to include as “adverse employment
actions” for purposes of the interrogatory. 
Defendant left that section blank. 
Contrary to Defendant’s position and based on the text of the Form
Interrogatory, it is Defendant who must define those adverse employment actions
as the “asking party” for the Plaintiff to respond.  (Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Rogs—Employment, Wong Dec., Ex. A, Form Rog 201.3, p. 18.)  
            Objections
to RFA Nos. 3 and 4 as improperly compound and vague, ambiguous and uncertain
            RFAs,
like interrogatories, cannot be “compound, conjunctive or disjunctive.”  (CCP §2033.060(f).)  The “purpose…is to prevent questions worded
so as to require more information than could be obtained by 35 separate
questions.  How strictly this rule will
be applied remains to be seen. Arguably, any question containing an ‘and’ or
‘or’ is compound and conjunctive.”  (Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291.)  The “rule should probably apply only where
more than a single subject is covered by the question. Questions regarding the
same subject should be allowed although they include an ‘and’ or ‘or.’ For
example: ‘State your first name, middle name and last name, and your current
address and telephone number.’ Since only one subject is involved—identification
of responding party—the question should not be objectionable because of the
‘ands' used.”  (Id. (quoting Weil
& Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide:  Civil
Procedure Before Trial (Rutter Group 2009), 8:978.1, 8:979.)  
            Defendant’s
RFAs are improperly compound.  “YOU” and
“YOUR” refer to Plaintiff Martin Hutto, his agents or assigns.  Each RFA therefore covers more than one
subject and is impermissibly compound. 
For example RFA No.3 asks Hutto to admit that Hutto, an unidentified
number of agents and an unidentified number of assigns each failed to include
in the supplemental report the fact that Hutto, his agents or assigns shoved
Tammi Jackson towards the bench in the jail booking room.  The RFA is also vague and ambiguous as to
“agents” and “assigns,” nor does the RFA make sense given that it assumes
Hutto’s agents and assigns allegedly shoved Jackson.  
            Defendant’s
RFA No. 4 is also vague and ambiguous, because it asks that Plaintiff admit an
educational reminder is a “non-punitive” “corrective action” under the Torrance
Police Department Manual, Policy 1006.18.2. 
Policy 1006.18.2 was attached to the RFAs as Exhibit A.  (Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFA
No. 4, Wong Dec., Ex. A, p. 19.)  Nowhere
in section 1006.18.2 is the term “non-punitive” defined, nor did Defendant
define it in the definitional section of the RFAs.  “Non-punitive” is not entirely subjective and
therefore a definition is required; otherwise, it is vague and ambiguous.  
            Defendant’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses is DENIED
            Defendant’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories 201.3 and 207.2 are
denied.  Plaintiff’s objections are
meritorious and sustained. 
            Sanctions
            As
the prevailing party, Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions, unless the Court
finds the Defendant acted with substantial justification or other reasons
justify denial of the sanctions request. 
Defendant fails to establish that it acted with substantial
justification.  
            Plaintiff
requests $2,500 in sanctions per motion against Defendant and Defense counsel.  Plaintiff’s counsel claims eight hours per
motion @ $700/hr hour.  Plaintiff is only
requested $2,500 per motion.  The Court
finds that the reasonable attorneys fees for the motions is $3,500 total.  Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions within
20 days in the amount of $3,500 total for both motions.  
ORDER
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories—Employment is
DENIED.
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFAs is DENIED.
            Defendant
and Defense counsel are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $5000 within
20 days.  
            
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.