 Case Number:  22SMCV01202    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories.  The motion is DENIED. 
Defendant, the moving party, failed to submit a separate
statement with the motion.  Such a
statement is required.  (Cal. R. Ct.
3.1345(a)(2).)  Defendant, in reply,
contends that no such statement is required because it was incorporated in the
motion.  But that is not permitted.  The operative word of the document is
“Separate.”  It is a standalone document
that allows the court easily to look in one place at the interrogatory, the
response, any supplemental response, and the reasons why the response is inadequate,
request by request.  Had the only problem
been that the document was not filed separately, but was otherwise in compliant
form, the court might have overlooked the problem.  But it is not.  This is simply defendant electing not to
follow the rule because defendant does not believe it is necessary.  In this case, the court actually thinks the separate
statement (which would trigger an opposing separate statement) would have been
extremely helpful.  The court briefly
addresses, though, the issue relating to the Curry property.  Three interrogatories (for each plaintiff) go
to work done by plaintiff relating to a remodel of a home by Melinda
Curry.  That property is not at issue in
this case.  The response objects on scope
issues but also notes that plaintiff purportedly paid Mr. Shiri—defendant’s
managing partner and counsel of record for defendant in the instant case—for
legal advice regarding that property.  To
the extent that plaintiff here retained Mr. Shiri with regard to that other
project, the interrogatory looks somewhat sinister.  There is nothing per se unethical
about Mr. Shiri representing plaintiff in a different case, now that the prior
case has concluded and the prior client is no longer a client.  But there is something improper about Mr.
Shiri using information he might have received in the course of that
representation in this case, where he is adverse to his former client.  The fiduciary duty of loyalty may not survive
the end of the attorney/client relationship, but the fiduciary duty of
confidentiality does.  However, Mr. Shiri
denies that he was ever retained or involved in the Curry matter.  Of course, if Mr. Shiri is a stranger to the
Curry matter, then there would be no invasion of privilege or the like and
there is no duty at all—loyalty or confidentiality.  But one must wonder why it is that
defendant—Mr. Shiri’s present client and the entity Mr. Shiri owns and manages—is
asking about an unrelated property.
One would think that whether Mr. Shiri had involvement in
the Curry matter is not a hard thing to prove one way or the other.  If he was paid a retainer, there will be a
record of it.  Indeed, if he was paid
anything there will be a record of it. 
If there was correspondence between him (or his office) and plaintiff
with regard to the Curry matter there will be a record of it or a copy of it.  And while the content of such communications
(if they exist) might well be privileged, the fact of it is not (and if Mr.
Shiri is correct and he was never counsel, then of course there would be no
privilege).  The court notes that even if
Mr. Shiri was not himself counsel “of record” in the Curry case, if he
consulted with counsel who was, that could well put him in the ambit.
This is heady stuff with an ethical dimension.  For now, the motion is denied due to the
separate statement issue.  But the court
warns both parties.  If Mr. Shiri did
have involvement as counsel for plaintiff in the Curry matter and is now asking
about it, that might well trigger ethical questions.  Conversely, accusing Mr. Shiri of such
violations if plaintiff knows the accusations to be untrue is also an ethical
violation in reverse.  Counsel signed the
responses, albeit not under oath.  (The
court does not know who verified the responses (because the verification is not
in the papers), but if the accusation is false, that person may have committed
perjury.)
This temperature of this case has been rising and
rising.  If it keeps going on this
trajectory with these sorts of accusations back and forth, the court warns the
parties that one or more of the attorneys in this case may be facing a referral
to the Bar.
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.  Until and unless the Curry matter is
clarified, the request by plaintiff for sanctions is DEFERRED.
