 Case Number:  20SMCV01915    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here for a final status conference.  The court’s FSC order was given on June 8,
2021.    
The court is quite concerned.  According to plaintiff’s counsel, the parties
were working toward preparing the FSC documents when they reached a settlement
agreement.  Both sides  allegedly agreed to the terms (albeit through
counsel).  However, at the last minute,
plaintiff contends that defendant pulled out of the deal.  Plaintiff claims to have tried to send FSC
materials to the defense for a joint filing although obviously on very little
notice.  Defense counsel’s response was
to say that there was insufficient time to respond.  Plaintiff filed its documents
unilaterally.  Defendant has filed
nothing.
The court will discuss with counsel what will be done.  At a minimum, the court is more than a little
bit concerned.  A few thoughts.  First, if there was an exchange of emails in
which both parties’ counsel agreed to the deal terms, there may be a settlement
(if either party wants to enforce it). 
It might be enforceable under 664.6 and it might be enforceable only by
traditional means.  But if the writing is
there, it is not clear that there is anything left to try.  If counsel was not authorized to settle, that
could be a question that counsel, the client, and the carrier need to
resolve.  On the other hand, if the
“settlement” was really something like “this looks good but I need to run it by
the client” then it would appear that all there is would be an “almost
settlement,” which of course is meaningless. The court will inquire.
If there is no settlement, the court is concerned as to the
state of the case.  If the settlement (or
almost-settlement) was at the last minute (notwithstanding the court’s warning
two and a half years ago), the parties needed to “double-track” so that the
matter would be ready for trial.  The
court is open on December 11, 2023, and the slot will be wasted if the parties
are not prepared.  That is a cost to the
court as well as to other litigants who wanted an earlier trial date but could
not get it because the court was holding the date for this case.  That sort of misconduct is sanctionable and
is very likely to be sanctioned.
If, as plaintiff suggests, plaintiff burned the midnight oil
to get done what needed to get done but defendant did not, then the trial might
go forward using only plaintiff’s materials. 
Plaintiff will be able to call witnesses and the defense can
cross-examine, but defendant will be precluded from calling witnesses of its
own other than one of its principals. 
Plaintiff can introduce exhibits from the exhibit list and any exhibit
so introduced is fair game for both parties, but defendant cannot introduce exhibits.  That is the penalty prescribed in the Local
Rules where one side does not participate in the FSC process.  Plaintiff also suggests that defendant has
engaged in other questionable conduct.
But, of course, that is only one side of the story.  The court has been around long enough to know
that there are usually two sides or more. 
Defendant should be prepared to explain its side, succinctly, at the
hearing.  If there are additional emails
or written materials, defendant should be prepared to produce them. 
The court is also concerned about seating a jury.  When cases look like this a week before
trial, it usually results in a circus. 
The public’s view of the judicial branch is fragile enough so as to
cause the court to not want to risk further damage by a trial that is chaotic,
especially when jurors are making a tremendous sacrifice to participate.
The court would STRONGLY urge the parties to reconsider the
settlement.  A settlement tends to cure
all.  But if there is no settlement,
appropriate orders will follow.
If the case is actually going to trial on Monday (which is,
frankly, unlikely), the court will rule on the in limine motions today.