 Case Number:  22SMCV00383    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here for a trial setting conference.  Plaintiff is suing defendant for unpaid rent;
defendant has responded that there were habitability issues and claims of
illegal rent increases and penalties. 
Possession is no longer at issue.
The prior trial was continued.  Defendants’ counsel has withdrawn effective
at the close of today’s hearing. 
Defendants have sought a substantial continuance on the ground that they
need a new lawyer and that plaintiff has been acting improperly, in particular
at a recent deposition.  Plaintiff wants
the continuance to be very short and contends that it is ready, or nearly
ready, for trial and denies any bad behavior. 
Plaintiff suggests 30-60 days, which (to the court’s ear) seems more
like an attempt to squeeze the defense than a good faith request given the
circumstances.
Defendants contend that (at least as of November 27, 2023)
plaintiff had not provided any FSC materials, although defendants have provided
some.  It was that state of play the led
the court to vacate the prior trial date.
The court has reviewed the Akhtarzad deposition transcript
and it is as bad as defense counsel suggests. 
Plaintiff’s counsel acted improperly and the court believes that was
intentional.  Counsel is knowledgeable
and knows what the deposition rules are. 
Here, counsel objected to almost every question.  The objections were often speaking objections
and (again, to the court’s eye) were obviously made to coach the witness.  Many were not proper deposition objections at
all.  And in some cases, a frivolous
instruction not to answer was given.  The
witness was equally troubling.  The
witness kept claiming difficulty following questions—some of which were
clear.  The witness continually said that
he could not remember events more distant than the day before because he was an
ancient 74 years old.  (To the court, 74
is not all that old.)  He said it so many
times that the court is not sure whether this witness is even competent to
testify.  According to plaintiff, the
deposition is now complete.  The court is
not so sure, but if defendant agrees, then this can go in the rear view
mirror.  Otherwise, the court would be
inclined to appoint a referee to preside over the deposition at plaintiff’s
expense (such expense not to be subject to re-allocation).
For its part, plaintiff claims that defense counsel acted
badly during the Saville deposition. 
That transcript has been lodged, but the court has not seen it so the
court has no comment on that.  However,
the court has reviewed Mr. Jhun’s declaration. 
He is correct that he is entitled to all of the communications that were
reviewed during the examination upon which the witness may have relied.  That includes communications between the
defendants, and it would even include communications with counsel.  The deposition is to go forward as if it were
in court.  Defense counsel knows that if
Mr. Saville were on the witness stand he would not be able to have Ms. Kohannim
or counsel go up to him and whisper things or send texts.  Because of that sort of behavior, to the
extent that further depositions are taken and also while a witness is
undergoing cross-examination at trial, the witness will speak to NO ONE about
the case, including counsel.  So, if what
is being asserted by Mr. Jhun is true, then the court agrees that there has
been bad conduct on both sides.  If it
has not been completed, the Saville deposition will continue with a referee
presiding.  Defendants will pay the cost
of the referee and that cost will be non-allocable.
Defendants are trying to get new counsel.  The court believes that they need counsel and
that there needs to be a continuance to so allow if that is on the immediate
horizon.  Had plaintiff acted
appropriately and diligently to this point, the court might have been inclined
to say that defendants are responsible for the problem and that they will not
be allowed to delay the trial.  But plaintiff
has had a strong hand in the problems thus far and will not now be heard to
complain of the delay.  On the other hand,
defendants have also acted badly if the Jhun declaration is to be believed,
which argues for a relatively short extension.
The court also notes the addition of two DOE
defendants.  They were added very
recently and the court is not convinced that defendants only just now learned
of the need to add them.  It, too, smacks
of an improper tactic.  The court will
consider a motion to strike the DOE cross-defendants if one is made and if
defendants cannot explain their delay and the need to add these two parties and
why they waited so long to do so.
The court also questions whether either party has properly
demanded a jury in this case.  On
December 21, 2022, the court ordered the parties to post their fees within 30
days or the court might deem it a waiver. 
Plaintiff posted fees on October 30, 2023 and defendants posted on
November 14, 2023.
In short, this case is still a mess.  The court has no confidence that the case
will be ready for trial in 30-60 days even were the court to otherwise agree
with plaintiff. 
The court will discuss potential trial dates with the
parties at the hearing, but the court needs to have some level of confidence
that things will move forward in a better fashion going forward.  The court will also discuss whether a jury
has been properly secured.  The parties
would be well advised to reconsider settlement. 
Right now, they are in a court that has evidence that all of them have
acted badly to the point where ethical violations by THE PARTIES has occurred.