 Case Number:  24SMCV02024    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel is GRANTED.  The request for sanctions is GRANTED in the
amount of $2625 against defendant and defense counsel, payable within 30
days.  Defendant’s reading of the statute
is wrong and does not reflect the words actually used as to whether the
deponent can appear remotely.  That is
just not what the statute says and there is no case of which the court is aware
that interprets the statute that way. 
The statute states that “any party or attorney of record may, but is not
required to, be physically present at the deposition at the location of the
deponent.”  Obviously, the deponent must
be present at the deponent’s location. 
Everyone else has the right to be present.  (CCP 2025.310(b).)  The Rule of Court concerning this statute
provides that “Any party, other than the deponent, or attorney of record
may appear and participate in an oral deposition by telephone, videoconference
[or other method]” and a “deponent must appear as required by statute or as
agreed to by the parties and deponent.”  
(Cal R. Ct. 3.1010(b)-(c).)  The
plain reading of the statute and rule support the traditional notion that
depositions will be in person, but they allow remote appearances at the
deposition by people other than the deponent.  It does not give the deponent the unilateral
right to appear remotely.  There was no
basis to the opposition or the refusal to present the witness in person for appearance.  Defendant also complains of the meet and
confer.  Given defendant’s position, and
defendant’s declaration of impasse without any meaningful discussion, plaintiff
did all that is required.  The sanctions
are against counsel because the legal position is obviously one promoted by
counsel, and defense counsel’s poor efforts and the meet and confer were not proper.  Therefore, the problem here is not one of the
client’s making alone, but rather were the result of poor conduct by counsel.
 
No later than 72 hours from now, defendant will set forth
three dates—all work days—not less than two weeks from today and not more than
5 weeks from today.  No later than 72
hours after receiving the timely dates, plaintiff will pick a deposition date
that is on a work day and not one of the three dates defendant set
forth.  The deposition will then continue
from day to day except for weekends, holidays, and the three days defendant had
specified.  (For avoidance of doubt,
Monday, November 11, 2024 is a holiday, as is Thursday November 28 and Friday
November 29.)  It will go until
completed.  (Again, for avoidance of
doubt, the court is not making any rulings regarding the 7 hour limit set forth
in the CCP.)  It will start at 9:00 am
and conclude at 5:00 pm with a 1 hour lunch and two 15 minute breaks, one in
the morning and one in the afternoon.
 
The parties can alter the above procedure by written
agreement without the need for court approval. 
