 Case Number:  23SMCV01199    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  207 tentative ruling
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 7, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01199




MOTION


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
  and Costs




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Princeton Lofts,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Princeton Lofts, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) seeks $12,000 in
attorneys’ fees and $744.96 in litigation costs as the “prevailing party”
pursuant to Civil Code section 5975, subdivision (c).  
 
Default was entered against Defendant Gamma Investors Group LLC.  The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Civil Code section 5975 provides:
 
(a) The
covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable
servitudes, unless unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all
owners of separate interests in the development. Unless the declaration states
otherwise, these servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest
or by the association, or by both.
 
(b) A governing
document other than the declaration may be enforced by the association against
an owner of a separate interest or by an owner of a separate interest against
the association.
 
(c) In an action
to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision
(b) provides:
 
Unless otherwise
ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting papers shall
be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The moving and
supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to be filed with
the court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period
of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the
place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of California,
10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place of address is
outside the State of California but within the United States, 12 calendar days
if the place of address is the Secretary of State's address confidentiality
program (Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of
the Government Code), and 20 calendar days if either the place of mailing or
the place of address is outside the United States, and if the notice is served
by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery
providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before
the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days. Section 1013, which
extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done,
does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers
governed by this section. All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be
filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days,
and all reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.  The court, or a judge thereof, may prescribe
a shorter time.
 
Plaintiff filed its motion on November 30,
2023, and noticed the hearing on the motion for December 7, 2023, which is only
6 court days between the filing and hearing. 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for failure to abide by
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1005.  
 
            Moreover, the motion is not yet
ripe, as Plaintiff is not yet the “prevailing party” in the action.  
 
“The concept of justiciability involves the intertwined criteria of
ripeness and standing. Standing derives from the principle that every action
must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest.  A party
lacks standing if it does not have an actual and substantial interest in, or
would not be benefited or harmed by, the ultimate outcome of an action. 
Standing is a function not just of a party's stake in a case, but the degree of
vigor or intensity with which the presents its arguments. Ripeness refers to
the requirements of a current controversy. According to the Supreme Court, an
action not founded upon an actual controversy between the parties to it, and
brought for the purpose of securing a determination of a point of law will not
be entertained. A controversy becomes ripe once it reaches, but has not passed,
the point that the facts have sufficiently congealed to permit an intelligent
and useful decision to be made.”  (City of Santa Monica v. Stewart
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 43, 59 [cleaned up].)  
 
“The Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act (Davis-Stirling
Act or the Act) governs an action to enforce the recorded CC&Rs of a common
interest development.”  (Champir, LLC
v. Fairbanks Ranch Assn. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 583, 590.)  “In determining the prevailing party under
the Davis-Stirling Act, the trial court should compare the relief awarded on
the claim or claims with the parties' demands on those same claims and their
litigation objectives as disclosed by the pleadings, trial briefs, opening
statements, and similar sources. The prevailing party determination is to be
made by a comparison of the extent to which each party has succeeded and failed
to succeed in its contentions.  (Id.
at p. 592.)
 
            Here,
although default has been entered against Defendant, Plaintiff has not yet
submitted a default judgment package, and the Court has not yet entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiff for Plaintiff to be the “prevailing party”
entitled to its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion is denied for failure
to provide with the procedural due process requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005, and because the motion is unripe, as no judgment has
yet been entered in favor of Plaintiff to make Plaintiff the “prevailing party”
entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant to Civil Code section
5975.
 
Plaintiff must file a default judgment
package before judgment can be entered in favor of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff may make its request for attorneys’
fees and costs as part of that default judgment package.
 
The Court vacates the Case Management Conference
set for December 18, 2023, and sets an Order to Show Cause re: entry of default
judgment on January 22, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  Further, Plaintiff shall file the default
judgment request on or before January 8, 2024. 

 
The Court presumes Plaintiff waives notice
unless it states otherwise.  
 
 
DATED:  December 7, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 