 Case Number:  BC724197    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


BC724197




MOTIONS:  


Claim
  of Exemption 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Linda Castillo




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 19, 2019, the Court granted default judgment for Plaintiff State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Judgment Creditor”) against Defendants
Juan de Loera and Linda Castillo (Defendants). 
 
On
May, 9, 2023, a writ of execution was issued against Defendants. 
 
On September
13, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed a Notice of Hearing on Claim of Exemption
regarding Judgment Debtor Linda Castillo (“Castillo”). 
 
On
September 13, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed a notice of opposition to the claim
of exemption.  
 
The
hearing for this matter was initially scheduled for December 7, 2023. The Court
declined to rule because Judgment Debtor Linda Castillo’s claim of exemption
had not been filed. (Min. Order, 12/7/23.) 
 
On
December 11, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed a Notice of Ruling and attached
Castillo’s Claim of Exemption (Wage Garnishment) and Financial Statement. 
 
On
January 8, 2024, Castillo filed a Declaration in support of her claim. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A writ of execution is a court process which allows a
levying officer (i.e. the sheriff of a county) to enforce a money judgment in a
manner prescribed by law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 699.520.) An individual judgment
debtor may seek to prevent property from being levied by filing a claim of
exemption. 
 
“The claimant may make a claim of exemption by filing with
the levying officer, either in person or by mail, a claim of exemption together
with a copy of the claim. If the claimant is personally served, the claim shall
be made within 15 days after the date the notice of levy on the property
claimed to be exempt is served on the judgment debtor. If the claimant is
served by mail, the claim shall be made within 20 days after the date the
notice of levy on the property claimed to be exempt is served on the judgment
debtor. If the claim is filed by mail and assigned a tracking number by the
United States Postal Service or another common carrier, the filing shall be
deemed complete on the date the claim is postmarked. If the claim is filed by
mail and not assigned a tracking number, the filing shall be deemed complete on
the date the claim is received by the levying officer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
703.520 (a).) 
The claim must include the information listed in section
703.520, subdivision b. Promptly after filing the claim of exemption, the
levying officer shall serve a copy of the claim of exemption and “[a] notice of
claim of exemption stating that the claim of exemption has been made and that
the levying officer will release the property unless, within the time allowed
as specified in the notice, both of the following are filed with the levying
officer:
(1) A copy of the notice of opposition to the claim of
exemption.
(2) A copy of the notice of motion for an order determining
the claim of exemption.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.540.)
 
“Within 10 days
after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor who
opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of opposition
to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order determining the
claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a copy of the notice
of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the filing of the copies
of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the levying officer shall
promptly file the claim of exemption with the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
703.550.)¿ 
 
At a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the [judgment
debtor] has the burden of proof” in demonstrating that the property claimed
exempt is indeed exempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, subd. (b), 703.580,
subds. (b), (c).) In meeting this burden, the judgment debtor must establish
the right by evidence or facts; an affidavit which merely follows the language
of the statute and states nothing more than conclusions of law is
insufficient.¿(Le Font v.¿Rankin¿(1959)¿167¿Cal.App.2d 433,
435.¿Generally, "common necessaries of life" means essentials
commonly required by all persons for the sustenance of life, whatever their
employment status and includes medical care. (J. J. MacIntyre Co. v.
Duren (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d Supp. 16, 18-19).¿¿ 
 
“The hearing on the motion shall be held not later than 30 days from
the date the notice of motion was filed with the court unless continued by the
court for good cause.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.570 (a).) 
 
“The court, in its discretion, may
take into consideration any of the following changes that have occurred between
the time of levy or commencement of enforcement proceedings or creation of the
lien and the time of the hearing: . . . (3) A
change in the financial circumstances of the judgment debtor and spouse and
dependents of the judgment debtor if the exemption is based upon their needs.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 703.100(b)(3).) 
 
 
 
“At the conclusion of the hearing, the court shall determine by order
whether or not the property is exempt in whole or in part. Subject to Section
703.600, the order is determinative of the right of the judgment creditor to
apply the property to the satisfaction of the judgment. No findings are
required in a proceeding under this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.580(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
According to Castillo’s Claim
of Exemption, she requires all her earnings to support herself or her family. Despite,
this Castillo offered to withhold $20.00 per pay period. She is paid twice a
month. 
 
Judgment Creditor opposes
Castillo’s claim. 
 
First, in the Claim of
Exemption, Castillo has not provided a statutory basis for the claim. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 703.520(b) [“The claim of exemption shall be executed under oath
and shall include all of the following: . . . (5) A citation of the provision
of this chapter or other statute upon which the claim is based.”].) However,
Code of Civil Procedure section 706.051(b) states: 
 
“Except as provided in
subdivision (c), the portion of the judgment debtor's earnings that the
judgment debtor proves is necessary for the support of the judgment debtor or
the judgment debtor's family supported in whole or in part by the judgment
debtor is exempt from levy under this chapter.” 
 
Additionally, the law limits
the amount of wages that can be garnished to no more than the lesser of (1) 20%
of “disposable earnings” for the week or (2) “[f]orty percent of the amount by
which the individual's disposable earnings for that week exceed 48 times the
state minimum hourly wage in effect at the time the earnings are payable. If a
judgment debtor works in a location where the local minimum hourly wage is
greater than the state minimum hourly wage, the local minimum hourly wage in
effect at the time the earnings are payable shall be used for the calculation
made pursuant to this paragraph.”[1]
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 706.050(a).) 
 
According to the declaration, Castillo’s
monthly net income is $3,541.26. (See Financial Statement, item 2e.) Her total
monthly expenses are $5,346.39. This leaves a monthly deficit of $1,805.13. She
claims two dependent children, aged 15 and 18. In Castillo’s declaration, she
states she is a single mother with two students and no additional income other
than herself. She offers statements from her monthly mortgage payment
($2,188.69); a December 2023 gas bill ($51.78); a past due notice from Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power from November 2023 ($4,846.10); a DMV
registration renewal fee ($275) due January 2024; a monthly car payment
($439.12); a car insurance bill ($297.00); three credit cards payments; a monthly
payment to the IRS ($15.00); and her most recent checking account statement. 
 
Based on the limits required
in section 706.050(a)(2), Castillo’s wages can be garnished no more than $31.95
per week.[2]

 
In her declaration, Castillo
indicates she pays the following monthly expenses which appear to be necessary
categories: $2,188.69 for a mortgage payment, $1,276.11 for water and power,
$53.28 for gas. This amount totals $3,518.08 and does not even include costs
for food. Therefore, the expenses provided exceed her net pay and appear
necessary for the support of Castillo and her family. However, in light of
Castillo’s statement that she is able to pay $20.00 per pay period, the Court
will order that $20.00 be withheld each pay period. (See Claim of Exemption,
item 4b.) 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Claim for Exemption is GRANTED. 
 
Judgment Creditor shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 


