 Case Number:  EC066531    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



UNI-GLORY DEVELOPMENT, INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FAIRVIEW
   EAST LLC,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC066531
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT FAIRVIEW EAST LLC’S MOTION TO
   TAX COSTS; MOTION
  FOR ATTORNEY FEES FILED BY PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT UNI-GLORY DEVELOPMENT,
  INC.   
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

March
   1, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On April 6, 2017, plaintiff Uni-Glory
Development, Inc. (“Uni-Glory”) filed this action for breach of written
contract against defendant Fairview East LLC (“Fairview East”) for unpaid sums
owed for construction work on ten condominium units (the “Condominium Project”)
under an agreement dated May 29, 2013 (the “Agreement”). On August 26, 2017,
Fairview East filed a cross-complaint against Uni-Glory, George Zhang aka
George Yuguang Zhang (“Zhang”), Lucy Xiangxin Gao (“Gao”), Chien-Kuo Liu
(“Liu”), Engles Shen & Associates, Inc., DLAC, Inc. (“DLAC”), Eco Concrete,
Inc., GDT Framing, Inc., California Construction & Roofing, Inc.
(“California Construction”), and Golden City International, Inc. (“Golden
City”), asserting tort-based claims including fraud, and alleging that
Uni-Glory was unlicensed.  
Uni-Glory’s operative Second Amended
Complaint against Fairview East was filed on November 8, 2017, in which
Uni-Glory asserted causes of action for breach of written contract, implied
indemnity, and declaratory relief. Fairview East filed its operative Fourth
Amended Cross-Complaint on August 31, 2020. 
On November 16, 2023, following a jury
trial which ended on August 17, 2023, judgment was entered in favor of
Uni-Glory and cross-defendants Zhang, Gao, and Liu (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) and against Fairview East. 
This order addresses two motions: (1)
Fairview East’s motion to strike or tax costs, and (2) Uni-Glory’s motion for
attorneys’ fees. The chronology of the relevant filings is set forth below: 
-         
On
September 28, 2023, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants filed their memorandum of
costs. 
-         
On
October 3, Uni-Glory filed a motion for attorneys’ fees. 
-         
On
October 12, 2023, Fairview East filed a motion to strike or tax costs. 
-         
On
December 13, 2023, Fairview East filed an amended notice of motion and motion
to strike or tax costs. 
-         
On
December 19, 2023, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants filed an opposition brief to
Fairview East’s motion to strike or tax costs.
-         
On
December 22, 2023, Fairview East filed an opposition to Uni-Glory's motion for
attorneys’ fees. 
-         
On
December 27, 2023, Uni-Glory filed its reply brief in support of its fee motion.

-         
On
December 29, 2023, Fairview East filed a reply brief in
support of its motion to strike or tax costs. 
-         
On
January 8, 2024, the Court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental
briefing. 
-         
On
January 29, 2024, Uni-Glory and Fairview East filed their supplemental briefs. 
-         
On
January 30, 2024, Uni-Glory filed an objection to Fairview East’s briefing.
-         
On
February 2, 2024, Fairview East filed a response to Uni-Glory’s objection. 
II.         
FAIRVIEW
EAST’S MOTION TO STRIKE OR TAX COSTS
A.  
Legal
Standard
A prevailing party is entitled as a
matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding, except as
otherwise expressly provided by statute. (C.C.P.  §1032(b).) “Prevailing party” includes the
party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is
entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief,
and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief
against that defendant. (C.C.P. §1032(a)(4).) California law recognizes three
types of litigation costs: allowable, not allowable, and discretionary. (C.C.P.
§1033.5(a), (b), (c)(4).) Any award of costs — whether categorically
recoverable under section 1033.5, subdivision (a) or allowable in the court's
discretion under section 1033.5(c)(4) — must also be “reasonably necessary to
the conduct of the litigation” and “reasonable in amount.” (Segal v. ASICS
America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 651, 667.) 
“‘If the items appearing in a cost bill
appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to
show that they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the
items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof
is on the party claiming them as costs.’” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 131.) “[T]he mere filing of a motion to tax costs may be a
‘proper objection’ to an item, the necessity of which appears doubtful, or
which does not appear to be proper on its face. 
[Citation] However, ‘[i]f the items appear to be proper charges the
verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and
services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the defendant [citations],
and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is unreasonable
is upon the [objecting party].’ [Citations]” (Id.) “The court’s first
determination, therefore, is whether the statute expressly allows the
particular item, and whether it appears proper on its face. [Citation] If so,
the burden is on the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or
unreasonable. [Citation]” (Id.) 
B.  
Discussion
Here, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants
are the prevailing parties entitled to costs because Uni-Glory is the party
with a net monetary relief and Fairview East failed to recover any relief
against Uni-Glory or Cross-Defendants on the Fourth Amended Cross-Complaint. In
a memorandum of costs filed on September 28, 2023, Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants claim $147,314.94 in costs. 
In its motion filed on October 12,
2023, Fairview East objects to nearly all of the claimed costs. On December 12,
2023, Fairview East filed an “amended notice of motion and motion” which
basically functions as a supplemental brief and expands on its arguments made
in its initial moving papers. Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants filed an
opposition brief on December 19, 2023. Fairview East filed a reply brief on December
29, 2023. 
On January 29, 2024, the parties
submitted supplemental briefs. Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants filed an
objection to Fairview East’s supplemental briefing on February 2, 2024. They
claim that Fairview East’s 9-page filing exceeded the page limit set by the
Court because its brief was 5 pages long and the Supplemental Declaration of
Ronald Ho was an additional 4 pages long. This objection is specious and overruled.
The Court’s order specifically stated that declarations, exhibits, or
attachments would not be counted towards the page limit. 
1.           
The
Definition of “All Costs and Expenses”
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants argue
that the Agreement allows them to recover “all costs and expenses incurred”
beyond the statutory costs and expenses allowed under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1032 and 1033.5. Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants cite generally to two
cases, Bussey v. Affleck (1990) 25 Cal.App.3d 1162 and Arntz
Contracting Co. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 464, 491-492, which were decided by the Court of Appeal in the
First District, Divisions 4 and 1, respectively. Shortly after, in 2000, First
Nationwide Bank v. Mountain Cascade, Inc. (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 871,
878-879 Division 2 of the First District Court of Appeal rejected Bussey and
instead adopted the Third Appellate District’s holding in Ripley v. Pappadopoulos
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1616. In Ripley, the Third Appellate District disagreed
with the Bussey court’s reasoning and held that even if expert
witness fees were recoverable under a contractual provision, “[s]pecial
contract damages are subject to pleading and proof in the main action and
cannot be recovered by mere inclusion in a memorandum of costs” with the sole
exception of contractual attorney fees pursuant to Civil Code section 1717 and
Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a)(10)(A). A year after First
Nationwide Bank was decided, the Second Appellate District also declined to
follow Bussey and held in Fairchild v. Park (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 919, that a contractual provision which broadly provides for “all
costs and expenses” does not enlarge the costs allowable under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5 to include expert witness fees. The Fairchild court
discussed the legislative history of Civil Code section 1717, which prohibits
parties from adopting a different definition of “prevailing party” in order to
“establish uniform treatment of fee recoveries in actions on contracts” and
applied this reasoning to prohibit expanding the definition of “costs” to
include items not permitted under section 1033.5 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. (Id. at p. 929-930.) And in 2005, the First Appellate
District, Division 4, refused to follow Arntz (and abrogated its own
ruling in Bussey on different grounds), stating that the recovery of costs
broader than the statutory definition must be “specially pleaded and proven at
trial.” (Hsu v. Semiconductor Systems, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1330,
1341.) Citing to First Nationwide Bank, the Hsu court reasoned
that the proper interpretation of a contractual agreement for shifting
litigation costs is a question of fact that turns upon the intentions of the
contracting parties; therefore, this issue must be submitted to the trier of
fact for resolution pursuant to a prejudgment evidentiary proceeding, not a
summary postjudgment motion. (Hsu, supra, 126 Cal.App.4th at p. 1341.)

Based on the weight of the available
authority and the First Appellate District’s own subsequent departure from Bussey
and Arntz, the Court declines to adopt Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendant’s position that they are entitled to all costs without
limitations under the Agreement and proceeds to analyze Fairview East’s motion
to tax costs within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5.)  
2.           
Filing
and Motion Fees 
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants seek
$1,584.91 in filing and motion fees. Filing fees and motion fees are expressly
allowed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a)(1). Therefore, it is
Fairview East’s burden to show that the fees were not reasonable or necessary;
Fairview East fails to meet this burden by merely claiming that “plaintiff has
failed to identify the purposes of [several ex parte] applications.” (See Motion,
Ho Decl., ¶ 2.) 
3.           
Expert
Fees
In Fairview East’s moving papers,
Fairview East’s counsel states in his declaration that “[e]xpert fee is not
recoverable and is unreasonable.” (Motion, Ho Decl., ¶ 48.) In its “amended
motion” filed on December 16, 2023 (“December 16 Motion”), Fairview East
explains the basis for its cursory claim that the expert witness fees are not
recoverable and are unreasonable by making several arguments. First, Fairview
East argues that Uni-Glory and the Cross-Defendants did not make an offer
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 998; Fairview East claims that a
“joint offer” is improper. Second, Fairview East also argues that even if a
joint offer was appropriate, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants did not obtain a
more favorable result after offering to settle for $450,000 on July 29, 2022
(“998 Offer”). Alternatively, Fairview East argues that, even if Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants obtained a more favorable result, they are limited to
recovering expert fees incurred after they served their 998 Offer. Counsel surmises
that the expert fees were incurred before the 998 Offer was extended and also
claims that Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants’ invoices, submitted in support of
their motion for attorneys’ fees, show that they cannot recover $700 for Bart
Brimhall because this amount was later refunded. (Amended Motion, Ho Decl., ¶¶
5-6.) 
In opposition, Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants argue that Fairview East forfeited its challenge to the expert
witness fees because it was only raised in Fairview East’s December 16 Motion,
which was filed long after the 15-day deadline to file a motion to tax costs.
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants also erroneously argue that they are entitled to
recover expert witness fees, regardless of when they were incurred.
On reply, Fairview East argues that the
December 16 Motion should be considered because it “merely amplifies” its
original motion and “provid[e]s amended argument/authority as to categories
that were already contested in the original motion.” (Reply, p. 2.) Fairview
East also argues that the December 16 Motion was served and filed 16 court days
before the hearing date; therefore, it contends, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants
had “full statutory notice and an opportunity to address the points raised” and
cannot identify any resulting prejudice. (Reply, p. 3.) 
California Rules of Court rule 3.1700
requires any notice of motion to strike or tax costs to be served and filed 15
days after service of the cost memorandum. (CRC 3.1700, subd. (b)(1).) The
period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1013 and
1010.6(a)(4) for mail or electronic service, respectively. (CRC 3.1700, subd.
(b)(3).) “Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum”, the motion
“must refer to each item objected to by the same number . . . and must state
why the item is objectionable.” (CRC 3.1700, subd. (b)(1).) The party moving to
tax costs may present any competent evidence, oral or written, at the hearing
and the Court “is entitled to take all of the circumstances [of the case] into
account” when reviewing a party’s claimed costs. (Hadley v. Krepel (1985)
167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682-683.) 
As stated above, in Fairview East’s
initial motion, Fairview East challenges the costs as “not recoverable” and
“unreasonable.” Although the objection in the initial moving papers is
conclusory, the Court finds that the motion to tax adequately identified the
item challenged and the grounds for that challenge; it further exercises its
discretion to consider all of the arguments and evidence before it, and
therefore considers the arguments made in Fairview East’s amended motion and
its reply brief, which is that the expert fees claimed were inaccurately
calculated and incurred before the 998 Offer was served.
In its reply brief, Fairview East
refers to Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants’ invoices submitted in support of
their motion for attorneys’ fees as grounds for questioning when their expert
witness fees were incurred and whether they were accurately stated. Instead,
they cite case law that predates the 2016 amendment of CCP 998. (Reply, p. 5.)
The current version of CCP 998 explicitly provides that a defendant who rejects
a plaintiff’s offer and fails to obtain a more favorable judgment may be
required, in the court’s discretion, “to pay a reasonable sum to cover
postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses” which were actually
incurred and reasonably necessary, in addition to the plaintiff’s costs. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 998, subd. (d).) Therefore, Fairview East, as the
cross-complainant who fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, is only
required to pay Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendant’s “postoffer costs of the
services of expert witness.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 998, subd. (c)(1).) 
The Court granted Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants the opportunity to show in their supplemental briefing that these
costs were, in fact, incurred after July 29, 2022. They did not do so but only
argued that the Agreement provides for all “costs and expenses” (an argument
which the Court addressed and rejected above). Therefore, they have not met
their burden of showing that the costs were proper. (Ladas, supra,
19 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) 
The motion to tax costs is GRANTED as
to the $17,770 listed in Item 8.b. 
4.           
Deposition
Costs, Service of
Process, and Ordinary Witness Fees
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants claim
$12,0584.06 in deposition costs, $3,910.85 for service of process, and $170 for
ordinary witness fees.
First, transcripts and video recordings
of “necessary depositions” are allowable costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5,
subd. (a)(3).) Fairview East claims that Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants should
not recover costs for Chuan Shan (Kevin) Guo (“Guo”) or Stephen Cook’s
depositions because neither individual testified at trial. In opposition,
Uni-Glory and the Cross-Defendants argue that it was necessary to depose Kevin
Guo and Stephen Cook because Guo was Fairview East’s project manager and
Stephen Cook was the investigator who responded to Fairview East’s complaint to
the Contractors State License Board about Uni-Glory’s alleged work. The Court
agrees that these depositions are necessary to the litigation, even if they
were not necessary to the trial, so the motion to tax costs as to these depositions
is DENIED.
Fairview East also claims that the
memorandum of costs falsely claims that there were 4 depositions of Eric Ho. In
opposition, Uni-Glory and the Cross-Defendants clarify that they seek to
recover costs for 3 depositions of Eric Ho and the cancellation fee paid to the
court reporter when Mr. Ho refused to appear at his noticed deposition on
September 4, 2020. Fairview East did not address this issue on reply and the
Court considers it abandoned. Therefore, the motion to tax costs is DENIED as
to the deposition costs claimed in Item 4. 
Second, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants
claim $3,910.85 for costs incurred in connection with service of process. In
its initial motion, Fairview East argues that Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants
cannot recover the cost to subpoena persons and entities other than Hasz Fund
Control, Inc., Winchester Realty, L.A. County Building, and Mega Bank, because
none of the subpoenaed witnesses, other than these four entities, appeared at
trial. Fairview East also argues that the memorandum of costs improperly
includes $380 for several filings. In its amended motion, Fairview East
additionally points out that costs incurred for photocopying records produced
by nonparty witnesses – such as Winchester Realty, L.A. County Building, Hasz
Fund Control, and Mega Bank – are not allowed because service of process by a
registered process server, in the context of section 1033.5 which identifies
allowable costs, does not include a professional photocopier whose only service
of process relates to subpoenas for the production and copying of records. (Amended
Motion, p. 7, citing to Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22350.) 
In opposition, Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants argue that the costs to serve Winchester Realty, L.A. County
Building, and Mega Bank with subpoenas should be allowed because their records
supported Plaintiff’s “lack of delay damages” claim at trial. However, photocopying
costs are not allowed and messenger fees are only allowed at the discretion of
the trial court if they are reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation. (CCP 1033.5, subd. (b)(3); Ripley v. Pappadopoulos (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1616.) Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants do not submit invoices distinguishing
photocopying costs from the cost to serve the subpoenas. They also do not
explain why it was necessary to incur $380 to personally serve Fairview East
with various filings, nor do they explain why it was necessary to serve
subpoenas and trial subpoenas on the witnesses who did not testify. 
Accordingly, the motion to tax is GRANTED
as to the service of process costs claimed in Item 5. 
Third, Fairview East claims that
ordinary witness fees should not be allowed because none of the individuals
identified and allegedly served appeared as witnesses at the trial, and it has
no information as to who these people are. (Motion, p. 5.) For the same reasons
discussed in connection with the service of process costs, the motion to tax is
GRANTED as to the ordinary witness fees claimed in Item 8.a.
5.          
Models,
Enlargements and Photographs of Exhibits 
Models, the enlargements of exhibits
and photocopies of exhibits, and the electronic presentation of exhibits,
including costs of rental equipment and electronic formatting, may be allowed
if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact. (CCP § 1033.5, subd.
(a)(13).) Costs incurred in preparing demonstratives and photocopies of trial
exhibits that are ultimately not used at trial are allowable in the trial
court’s discretion. (Segal v. ASICS America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 651,
667.) 
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants claim
$23,212.50 in costs for “[m]odels, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits”,
specifically “Trial Blowups, Exhibits, Monitors for Court and Witnesses, and
Audio Visual Staff at Trial.” In its initial motion, Fairview East argues that
it has already paid half of the technical costs in the sum of $2,024 and, as
the losing party, it should not be automatically burdened with these costs. (Motion,
p. 6; Ho Decl., ¶ 7.) In its amended motion, Fairview East complains that “there
is no breakdown, backup or support for these costs.” (Amended Motion, p. 15.) It
also argues that the cost for exhibits not used at trial are not recoverable,
and only 8 out of over 150 exhibits were admitted. (Amended Motion, p. 15.) Fairview
East additionally argues that the services of audio-visual staff and monitors
are not “necessary” services, but rather for the convenience of counsel. (Amended
Motion, p. 16.) 
The Court disagrees with Fairview East.
As articulated at the hearing by counsel for Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants, an
audio-visual and computer consultant was necessary to operate an overhead
projection system at trial and present key dates, construction documents, and
deposition testimony to the jury. Therefore, although only 8 exhibits were
used, the technical support and equipment provided by the audiovisual
consultants are a reasonably necessary expense. 
The motion to tax costs with respect to
Item 11 is DENIED. 
6.          
Court
Reporter Fees
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants seek
$67,487 in court reporter fees in Item 12. Fairview East argues that given this
large amount, it is apparent that Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants are seeking
reimbursement for the cost of transcripts, which is not recoverable under
section 1033.5(b)(5) unless ordered by the court. Fairview East calculates that
the court reporter fee for an 11-day trial would be only $8,404, but Uni-Glory
and Cross-Defendants claim that the court reporter fees for a final status
conference, jury selection, and trial total $34,846.50. (Amended Motion, p. 10.)

In their opposition brief and
supplemental opposition brief, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants do not
differentiate between the court reporter fee and the cost of the transcript.
Instead, they argue that the transcripts were “reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation” because Fairview East also ordered them. This
argument fails to recognize that “[t]ranscripts of court proceedings not
ordered by the court” are “not allowable as costs, except when expressly
authorized by law.” (CCP § 1033.5, subd. (b)(5).) In fact, the case cited in
their supplemental opposition brief, Chaaban v. Wet Seal (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 49, made this distinction between court reporter fees and
transcripts. 
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants also
argue that Fairview East agreed to share the costs for court reporting and transcripts
at trial. This representation is refuted by an email from Uni-Glory’s counsel dated
September 8, 2021, in which counsel informed Fairview East it would need to
obtain its own court reporter for all subsequent hearings. (Supp. Ho Decl., ¶¶
3-6; Ex. 2.) 
Accordingly, Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants fail to show that anything over $8,404 is allowed. The motion
to tax with respect to the “court reporter fees” claimed in Item 12, which
actually reflect the cost for transcripts, is GRANTED in the amount of $59,083.

7.          
Interpreter
Fees and Jury Consultant Fees
In its initial motion, Fairview East
argues that Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants may not recover the fees paid for
interpreters or jury consultants. The issue of interpreter fees is omitted from
Fairview East’s amended motion and reply brief. The Court thus considers the
issue abandoned and denies the motion to tax as to the interpreter fees listed
in Item 13. 
As for the $12,591 sought for jury
consultant fees, Fairview East argues that a jury consultant is merely a
convenience because many cases are tried before juries without the benefit of a
consultant. In its opposition brief and supplemental opposition brief,
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants point out that Fairview East also used a jury
consultant at trial, showing that a jury consultant is not merely convenient,
but “reasonably necessary.” In its reply, Fairview East points out that its
counsel tried the case alone and that its own retention of a jury consultant
was irrelevant to determining whether Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants’ incurred
costs were reasonably necessary. 
At the hearing and in the supplemental
opposition brief, Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants argued that a jury consultant
was reasonably necessary in order to “streamline things” during voir dire and
“conduct tthings efficiently” so that counsel could concentrate on questioning potential
jurors while the consultant took notes. Accordingly, based on counsel’s
representation as to the value of the jury consultant as well as the fact that Fairview
East’s counsel also used a jury consultant, the Court exercises its to
discretion to allow Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendants to recover the cost incurred
for the jury consultant.
The motion to tax the jury consultant
fees is DENIED. 
C.  
Conclusion
The
motion to strike or tax costs is GRANTED in part and $80,933.85 is taxed from
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendant’s cost bill.
III.       
UNI-GLORY’S
MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES
Uni-Glory
asserts that it is entitled to $413,773.25 in attorneys’ fees as the prevailing
party under both Civil Code 1717 and Code of Civil Procedure section 1032
because: (1) it recovered compensatory damages in the amount of $796,672 under
its claim for Breach of Contract in the Complaint, and (2) it successfully
defended against Fairview East’s breach of contract claim and tort claims
alleging fraud in the formation of the Agreement, fraudulent and negligent misrepresentations,
and negligent performance of the Agreement.
A.  
Legal
Standard
An attorney fee clause can provide for
an attorney fee award in an action on the contract pursuant to Civil Code
section 1717 or, if worded more broadly, can provide for a fee award in any
litigation between the parties as costs. (Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17
Cal.4th 599, 608.) 
Civil Code section 1717 governs an
award of reasonable attorneys’ fees in an action on a contract. The term “on a
contract” is liberally construed to include any action that “involves” a
contract. (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858, 894.) “To determine whether an action is on the contract, we
look to the complaint and focus on the basis of the cause of action.” (Brown
Bark III, L.P. v. Haver (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 809, 821.) The prevailing
party for contractual attorney fees award purposes is the party who recovered
greater relief in an action “on the contract.” (Civ. Code § 1717(b)(1).) 
“Where a cause of action based on the
contract providing for attorney's fees is joined with other causes of action
beyond the contract, the prevailing party may recover attorney's fees under
[Civil Code] section 1717 only as they relate to the contract action.” (Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124, 129.) However, “attorney's
fees need not be apportioned when incurred for representation on an issue
common to both a cause of action in which fees are proper and one in which they
are not allowed.” (Id. at pp. 129-130.) 
The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the “lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours
reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. A computation of
time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award. (Serrano v. Priest
(1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.) The submitted evidence should allow the court to
consider whether the case was overstaffed, how much time the attorneys spent on
particular claims, and whether the hours were reasonably expended. (City of
Colton v. Singletary (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751.) The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services provided.
Such an approach anchors the trial court’s analysis to an objective
determination of the value of the attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount
awarded is not arbitrary. (Serrano, supra, 20 Cal.3d at p. 48,
n.23.) The burden is on the party seeking attorney fees to prove that the fees
it seeks are reasonable. (Gorman v. Tassajara Development Corp. (2009)
178 Cal. App. 4th 44, 98.)
B.  
Discussion
1.   
Whether
Uni-Glory May Recover Fees Incurred for Defending Against Fairview East’s
Non-Contract Claims
The attorneys’ fee provision in the
Agreement between Uni-Glory and Fairview East states, in pertinent part: “[I]n
the event a suit or action is filed to enforce this agreement or with respect
to this agreement, the prevailing party or parties shall be reimbursed by the
other party for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the suit or
action, including without limitation reasonable attorney’s fees at the trial
level and on appeal.” (See Slome Decl., Exhibit “B” (marked at “Exhibit 1” at
trial), page 2.) 
Uni-Glory argues that this is an action
on a contract under Civil Code section 1717. It also argues that, as the
prevailing party, it should recover all attorneys’ fees, including those
incurred to defend against Fairview East’s tort claims for negligence,
fraudulent misrepresentation, and negligent misrepresentation, because all of
the claims involved common issues regarding the formation and performance of
the contract. (Motion, pp. 6-8.))
In opposition, Fairview East contends
that the fee provision should be narrowly construed because the phrase “with
respect to” differs from phrases such as “arising out of” or “relating to”,
which courts have commonly interpreted to be broad enough to allow for fees
based on non-contract claims. (Opp., p. 11.) Fairview East admits that “there
are no California cases that discuss this ‘with respect to’ language” in the
context of attorney fees.” (Opp., p. 11.) 
On reply, Uni-Glory reiterates the “common
issues” between the operative complaint and cross-complaint as well as the
broad scope of the attorneys’ fee provision. Uni-Glory argues that the
provision’s phrases such as “costs and expenses” and “suit or action” signal an
intent to embrace a more expansive interpretation and thus should include
non-contract claims along with claims to “enforce a contract.” (Reply, pp.
13-14.) 
Where an attorney fee clause provides
for an award of fees incurred in enforcing the contract, the prevailing party
is entitled to fees for any action “on the contract,” whether incurred
offensively or defensively, and to the extent that the action in fact is an
action to enforce—or avoid enforcement of—the specific contract. (Turner v.
Schultz (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 974, 980.) Thus, while Uni-Glory’s reliance
on conjunctions and enthusiastic underlining is not particularly persuasive,
the Court finds that the gravamen of Fairview East’s claims brings them under
Civil Code section 1717 and are “on a contract” insofar as it seeks to
invalidate the Agreement and seek disgorgement of funds paid to Uni-Glory under
the Agreement. (Eden Township Healthcare Dist. v. Eden Medical Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 418, 429 [successful defense against claim that
underlying contract is void entitled party to fees under Civil Code § 1717].) 
2.   
Whether
Uni-Glory May Recover Fees for Dismissed Claims, Fees Incurred in Connection
with Cross-Defendants, and Fees Incurred in Connection with Other Dismissed
Parties
Fairview East claims that Uni-Glory cannot
recover fees incurred for representing Cross-Defendants, who were not
signatories to the Agreement. (Opp., 12-13.) In its moving papers, reply brief,
and supplemental brief, Uni-Glory argues that there was no additional discovery
or motion practice involved in representing the Cross-Defendants and that there
were common questions to be determined including whether Fairview East was
fraudulently induced to enter into the Agreement, whether Uni-Glory and
Cross-Defendants failed to perform under the Agreement, and whether Uni-Glory
and Cross-Defendants were unlicensed contractors. The Court agrees that these
overlapping issues make it impracticable to require apportionment between
Uni-Glory and the Cross-Defendants. 
Fairview East also contends that Uni-Glory
should not be able to recover $4,561.23 incurred with its motion for leave to
amend because the motion sought to add claims for implied contractual indemnity
and declaratory relief, which Uni-Glory subsequently dismissed before trial.
(Opp., p. 15.) The Court agrees with Fairview East. Under Civil Code section
1717(b)(2), a voluntary dismissal of a claim means that there is no “prevailing
party” for purposes of Civil Code section 1717. Uni-Glory complains in its reply
brief that Fairview East did not cite any legal authority for this but ignores
that Fairview East cited to a subdivision of section 1717. Fairview East additionally
argues that Uni-Glory cannot recover fees incurred in connection with Fairview
East’s claims made against California Construction, Golden City, and DLAC,
which total $18,182.55. (Opp., pp. 18-19.) These entities were also later
dismissed from the action. Uni-Glory fails to address the entries identified on
pages 18 and 19 or this argument about these dismissed cross-defendants in
general. Nevertheless, the work performed in connection with California
Construction, Golden City, DLAC, or the motion for leave to amend were not
performed by Mr. Hsu, but by other timekeepers whose billing rates are not
identified or explained. 
3.  
Whether
Uni-Glory’s Fee Request is Reasonable 
In a prior tentative ruling, the Court concluded
that it was unable to determine whether Uni-Glory’s counsel’s fees were
reasonable and gave Uni-Glory an opportunity to provide supplemental evidence. 
In the original round of briefing, Uni-Glory’s
representative, George Zhang, authenticated 200 pages of invoices paid over
these time periods to Lexint Law Group, APLC (“Lexint”) and Meylan Davitt Jain
Arevian & Kim LLP (“Meylan Davitt”) totaling $796,672. For the time period
of April 2017 to August 2023, Uni-Glory paid $190,123.25 to Lexint. (Motion,
Zhang Decl., ¶ 2.) For the time period of March 2020 to August 2023, Uni-Glory
paid $223,650 to Meylan Davitt. According to Troy H. Slome of Meylan Davitt, Robert
Hsu of Lexint and he performed the vast majority of the work and they each have
over 20 years of experience. (Slome Decl., ¶ 12.) Mr. Slome then declared that Mr.
Hsu billed at a rate of $350 an hour while his own hourly rate was $300 (which
was discounted from his typical rate of $350/hour). (Ibid.) 
At the hearing on January 8, 2024, the
Court noted that Uni-Glory’s invoices and conclusory declaration did not
address Fairview East’s legitimate arguments that this action involved a
multitude of claims and parties which were dismissed before trial. The Court
demanded that Uni-Glory make some attempt at allocating time between claims,
parties, or even litigation phases would be expected, especially in response to
the specific objections to individual entries identified by Fairview East.
(Opp., Ho Decl., ¶¶ 4-9.) 
In its supplemental brief, Uni-Glory
argues that its original declarations from Mr. Slome and Mr. Zhang detailing
the total time expended were sufficient. (Supp. Brief, p. 5.) Uni-Glory summarizes
the amount of time spent by its attorneys and paralegals within its brief and states
that Mr. Hsu spent 96.1 hours working on this matter from April 2017 to
February 2020 before Meylan Davitt joined as co-counsel and his tasks included
“drafting
and finalizing pleadings, drafting or opposing motions, attending hearings,
reviewing, preparing, and participating in discovery requests, attending
depositions, attend inspection of property, attend mediation, communicating and
meeting with clients, and researching issues.” (Ibid.) For the
approximately-3-year period of March
2020 to July 30, 2023, after Meylan Davitt associated into the case and before
trial, Mr. Hsu spent 218.5 hours “reviewing pleadings
and law and motion, researching issues in motions, drafting oppositions to
motions, drafting pleadings, attending hearings, meeting with clients, review
and participate in discovery requests, attend depositions, drafting
correspondence to clients, attending multiple FSC and related hearings,
preparing trial documents, and attending meetings with clients to prepare for
trial.” (Ibid.) Lastly, from July 31,
2023 to September 2023, which is the period during and after trial, Mr. Hsu
spent 97 hours “providing legal advice and input on trial strategy and witness
questioning and evidence to be presented during three week trial, conducting
research and input on legal and factual issues raised at trial, providing input
on briefs filed with Court at trial, providing input on post-trial motions and
oppositions, attending the trial, meeting with client during trial to discuss
trial testimony and evidence.” (Ibid.) 
With respect to fees incurred for
Meylan Davitt’s work, Mr. Slome represented to the Court at the hearing on
January 8, 2024, that he was the only attorney who worked on the case and
already billed Uni-Glory at a discounted rate of $300 an hour instead of his
typical $350. The total amount paid for Mr. Slome’s services, $223,650, divided
by Mr. Slome’s hourly rate of $300 means that Uni-Glory is claiming he spent
745.5 hours on this case from March 2020 to September 2023, for an average of
approximately 213 hours per year over 3.5 years. This amount, upon reflection
of the difficulties in litigating this case, appears to be reasonable because this
case was factually complicated, lasted over six years and was heavily litigated
throughout, ultimately culminating in an 11-day jury trial with an unambiguous
victory for Uni-Glory. The Court notes in particular that the parties engaged
in heavy motion practice, which included 25 motions, as well as 15 motions in
limine.  
As for paralegal work, Uni-Glory
contends that paralegals performed 24.5 hours of work before Meylan Davitt
joined, 27.1 hours of work after Meylan Davitt joined and before trial, and 1.6
hours during and before trial. (Id.) Uni-Glory also identifies work by
two other attorneys, Spencer Wong and Byron Chung. However, Uni-Glory did not identify
(or justify) the billing rates for these individuals. Therefore, it cannot
determine whether or not the amount requested for their work is reasonable and
the request to recover their fees is denied. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
concludes that a reasonable attorneys’ fee award consists of $223,650 for work
provided by Meylan Davitt and Mr. Slome and $144,060 for services provided by Mr.
Hsu at Lexint, for a total of $367,710.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The
motion to strike or tax costs is GRANTED in part and $80,933.85 is taxed from
Uni-Glory and Cross-Defendant’s cost bill.
The motion for fees is GRANTED in part
and Uni-Glory may recover $367,710 in attorneys’ fees. 
Dated
this 1st
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 