 Case Number:  23AHCV01576    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ADARN
   INC. dba METRO FURNITURE, et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01576
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March
   1, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On July 10,
2023, plaintiff JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”) filed this complaint
against defendants Adarn Inc. dba Metro Furniture (“Adarn”), John Yueh (“Yueh”)
and Yapeng Liu (“Liu”) (collectively, “Defendants”). Chase originally asserted
a cause of action for breach of contract and two common counts for money lent
and account stated. On November 20, 2023, Chase dismissed these two causes of
action, leaving only its first cause of action for breach of contract against Defendants.
On November 20, 2023, Chase filed a motion for summary judgment on its
remaining claim for breach of contract. The motion is unopposed. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
A moving plaintiff meets their burden
of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action “if that party has
proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on
the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto. The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Chase relies
on the declaration of Shirley A. White, a Special Credits Analyst II with a
corporate title of Associate, to authenticate multiple documents consisting of
Chase’s loan to Adarn and the continuing guaranties executed by Yueh and Liu.
(White Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) Based on White’s declaration, Chase submits that it is
undisputed that on or about December 4, 2013, Adarn entered into a borrowing
relationship with Chase by executing a promissory note in the amount of
$120,000. (White Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Yueh and Liu executed a continuing
guaranty and guaranteed repayment of the promissory note and any renewals of
the note. (White Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Additional terms applicable to this
initial contract and guaranty are attached as Exhibit C to White’s declaration.
(White Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.) On or about April 15, 2015, Adarn executed a Line of
Credit Note in the amount of $250,000 and a credit agreement renewing the
promissory note executed in 2013. (White Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D.) Around the same
time, Yueh executed a continuing guarantee which guaranteed payment of this
renewal agreement; Liu also executed a continuing guaranty which did the same.
(White Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. E-F.) White declares that Adarn has failed to pay
under the terms of the Contract and is in default and attaches a document
reflecting the transaction history between Defendants and Chas showing that as
of October 19, 2023, Chase is owed the principal balance of $245,636.61, plus $1,750
in late fees and costs, for a total of $247,386.61. (White Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.)
White also declares that Yueh and Liu have failed to cure Adarn’s default,
causing them to default on their guaranty agreements. 
Plaintiff has
met its moving burden to establish the elements of its breach of contract
claim. Defendants did not oppose this motion and did not raise a triable issue
of material fact. Therefore, summary judgment in favor of Chase is appropriate.

VI.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 1st
day of March
2024
 




 


 




 


 William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 