  Case Number:  23AHCV00379    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE RIVERA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   STATE LOTTERY COMMISSION,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00379
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER FILED BY CALIFORNIA STATE LOTTERY COMMISSION

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 1,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
February 22, 2023, plaintiff Jose Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants California State Lottery Commission (“Defendant”), the State
of California (“State”), an individual named as “Reggie” (subsequently named as
“Urachi F. Romero”) (“Romero”), and Edwin G. Castro (sued as “Edwin Castro”). 
          On
September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) asserting claims for declaratory relief, conversion, trespass to
chattel, intentional interference with prospective economic relations, and
negligent interference with prospective economic relations.  
          On
November 17, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer to the sole cause of action
asserted by Plaintiff for declaratory relief. The demurrer is unopposed.  
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.     REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Defendant
requests the Court judicially notice a copy of a summary of lottery payments
made to Edwin Castro from the California State Controller’s Office. The summary
is unauthenticated by any declaration; therefore, the request for judicial
notice is denied. Nevertheless, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrers as
discussed further below.
IV.     DISCUSSION
          Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for declaratory relief on the
grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
because: (1) California lottery regulations and the Powerball Group Rules from
the Multi-State Lottery Association prevent Defendant from paying Plaintiff
lottery winnings under the facts alleged in the FAC, (2) Defendant is only
permitted to pay a prize once, and (3) Defendant owes no duty to Plaintiff. 
“A complaint for declaratory relief
must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or obligations
of a party.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) The purpose of a declaratory relief action is “to set
controversies at rest before they lead to repudiation of obligations, invasions
of rights, or commissions of wrongs . . . [Citations.]” (Travers v. Louden
(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 926, 931.) “Another purpose is to liquidate doubts with
respect to uncertainties or controversies which might otherwise result in
subsequent litigation. [Citations.]” (Id.)
Here, Defendant persuasively argues in
its unopposed demurrer that no controversy exists here because it owes
Plaintiff no duty or obligation. As an initial matter, the Government Code
clearly states: “No prize may be paid arising from tickets . . . not received .
. . by the lottery . . . .” (Gov. Code, § 8880.321, subd. (b).) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff, as an alleged ticket purchaser, “possesses no enforceable right
as to the other participants, absent a winning ticket. The right to a winning
share accrues solely from possession of a winning ticket, not from the mere
purchase of a ticket.” (Brown v. Cal. State Lottery Com. (1991) 232
Cal.App.3d 1335, 1340, citing Hochberg v. New York City Off–Track Betting
Corp. (1973) 343 N.Y.S.2d 651, 655 [The right of a player to a share of a
prize results not from buying a ticket but from having a ticket which evidences
the winning bet.].) 
Further, as Defendant explains in its
brief, there are extensive regulations which bar Plaintiff’s claim for
declaratory relief against Defendant. California Lottery Regulation
3.7.3.C(2)(b) confirms that only a “holder” of a valid ticket may be entitled
to a prize. The California Lottery Regulations further provide that a valid,
original Powerball ticket “is the only proof” of a player’s ticket numbers and
“is the only acceptable instrument” for claiming a prize. (Cal. Lottery Reg.
3.7.4.A.) According to California Lottery Regulation 5.1.3.C, to claim a prize,
a winner must submit a Claim Form, along with “the original winning” ticket
with the information requested on the back of the ticket completed. According
to California Lottery Regulation 5.3.1.C, “the original winning Ticket must be
submitted to the Lottery” to validate the ticket as a winner. Moreover, the
State Lottery “will not process a Claim or authorize payment for any . . .
Powerball Prize without submission of the original Ticket.” (Id. at
5.3.3.D.) The regulations also state that the Lottery is “not responsible for
Claims until they are successfully delivered to the Lottery. The Lottery is not
responsible for . . . stolen, or lost Tickets or Claims.” (Cal. Lottery Reg.
5.5.3.) “Players are solely responsible for securing their Tickets against
theft, loss, damage, or destruction. General criminal activity involving theft
of Lottery Tickets from members of the public will not be investigated by the
Lottery. Such crimes should be reported to appropriate law enforcement
authorities.” (Id. at 5.5.4.) “The person in possession of an unsigned
winning Lottery Ticket or a Ticket bearing his or her signature is the
presumptive owner/Winner.” (Id. at 5.5.5.) 
The premise of Plaintiff’s case relies
on the allegation that his lottery ticket was allegedly stolen, so he had no
winning ticket to present to the State Lottery to claim the prize and did not
present a winning ticket to the State Lottery. Therefore, the Court is
compelled to conclude that Plaintiff necessarily cannot state a claim against
Defendant and sustains the demurrer. The Court further notes that Plaintiff
failed to oppose this demurrer or show how amendment would be possible.
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant California State Lottery
Commission’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated
this 1st
day of March 2024




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 