 Case Number:  23BBCV02085    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
kathy
  hurley,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
mauricio salgado bahena,  
                        Defendant.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02085
    
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for an order granting preference
  in trial setting pursuant to ccp § 36(a)



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Kathy Hurley (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on November 3, 2022, Defendant Mauricio Salgado Bahena (“Defendant”) failed
to properly exercise due care and maintain the vehicle that was being driven at
the time of the subject collision. 
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered serious injuries as a result of the
motor vehicle accident.  
The complaint, filed September 11, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence.   
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36(a) and CRC Rule 3.1202.  
            On January 3, 2024, Defendant filed
an opposition brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
According to CCP §
36(a), a party to a civil action who is over the age of 70 must be given
preference if the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and
the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  To make the findings required by CCP § 36(a),
evidence must be provided with the motion for preference establishing
Plaintiff’s age and the relevant conditions of his health warranting a
preference.  Pursuant to CCP § 36.5, an
attorney affidavit offered in support of a motion for preference may be based
on information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of a party.  If a motion for preference based on a party’s
age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120 days from
the date the motion is granted.  (CCP §
36(f).) 
Pursuant to CCP § 36(e), in its
discretion, the court may grant a motion for preference that is supported by a
showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting preference.  
Finally, CCP § 36(c)(1) requires that all
essential parties be served with process or have appeared in the action in
order to grant a motion for preference. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves for trial preference based
on her age and current medical condition. 

According to the motion’s memorandum of
points and authorities, Plaintiff is 77 years old and has significant health
problems.  (Mot. at p.3.)  Plaintiff argues: “Due to Plaintiff’s age and
substantial interest in this instant case, she moves this Court pursuant to
Civ. Proc. Code § 36(a) for a preference and that this Court set a trial date
for a date not later than 120 days from the date that this motion is granted.”  (Id.) 
She argues that her health has been rapidly deteriorating since the
collision, which has caused her severe distress.  (Id. at p.2.)  
The motion is not accompanied by any
evidence.  There are no declarations by
Plaintiff or her counsel, nor a declaration from a healthcare
professional.  Section 36(a) requires
that: (1) Plaintiff be over the age of 70; (2) Plaintiff have a substantial
interest in the action as a whole; and (3) Plaintiff’s health is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  Though documentary evidence has not been
provided, the Court will accept that Plaintiff is over the age of 70.  Further, since Plaintiff was involved in the
motor vehicle accident at issue in this action, she can establish that she has
a substantial interest in the action as a whole.  However, only a conclusory statement that she
has significant health problems or that her health has deteriorated is provided
without any support.  What significant
health problems is Plaintiff suffering? 
How has her health deteriorated? 
            As Plaintiff has not made this
requisite showing through her moving papers, the motion for a trial preference is
denied.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is denied without prejudice. 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: January 19, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 