 Case Number:  23BBCV01743    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
shatiana
  tare glasper, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
lyft, inc., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01743
 
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel arbitration 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Shatiana Tare Glasper
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on August 3, 2021, she ordered a rideshare vehicle
through Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) via its mobile application where she was
picked up by Defendant Juan L. Estrada (“Estrada”), who drove her to her
destination.  Plaintiff alleges that upon
arrival, she proceeded to retrieve her luggage from the trunk, but Estrada
accelerated his vehicle while the trunk was open before she could retrieve her
luggage.  Plaintiff alleges that Estrada
saw Plaintiff signaling him to stop and he abruptly applied his brakes, causing
the open trunk to come down and strike Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that she suffered severe
injuries, including multiple fractures to her nose.  
The complaint, filed July 31, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) negligence.
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On October 25,
2023, Lyft filed a motion to compel arbitration against Plaintiff.   
On January 8, 2024, Lyft filed a notice of
non-opposition to the motion, stating that it was not in receipt of an
opposition brief from Plaintiff.  
DISCUSSION

            Lyft moves to compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims based on the Terms of Service in the Lyft App.  
Lyft argues that
arbitration is proper based on Lyft’s Terms of Service, which Plaintiff
affirmatively accepted through the Lyft App on multiple, separate occasions before
the subject accident.  Lyft argues that
Plaintiff accepted the Terms of Service (and updates thereto), which included
an arbitration clause, on May 17, 2017 (September 30, 2016 Terms of Service), December
31, 2019 (August 26, 2019 Terms of Service), January 6, 2021 (December 9, 2020
Terms of Service, which were in effect at the time of the subject accident on
August 3, 2021), and on January 19, 2023 (December 12, 2022 Terms of Service).  (Simmons Decl., Exs. 2-8.)  
The
December 9, 2020 Lyft Terms of Service states in relevant part at section 17,
entitled “DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT”:
YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE
RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE
TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION, as set forth below.  …
Except as expressly provided below, ALL DISPUTES AND
CLAIMS BETWEEN US (EACH A “CLAIM” AND COLLECTIVELY, “CLAIMS”) SHALL BE
EXCLUSIVELY RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT. These
Claims include, but are not limited to, any dispute, claim or controversy,
whether based on past, present, or future events, arising out of or relating
to: this Agreement and prior version thereof …, the Lyft Platform, the
Rideshare Services, … any other goods or services made available through the
Lyft Platform, your relationship with Lyft, …. 
(Simmons Decl., Ex. 6 at pp.16-23.)  The arbitration clause states that the
agreement to arbitration is governed by the FAA, includes the rules governing
arbitration, and terms about the arbitration fees and awards.  (12/9/20 Terms of Service, § 17(a), (d),
(e).)  
            Plaintiff’s
claims are regarding a motor vehicle accident and negligent conduct on the part
of Lyft’s driver that caused injuries to Plaintiff while she was removing her
luggage from the trunk of a rideshare vehicle. 
According to the arbitration clause, claims subject to arbitration
include rideshare services, such that Plaintiff’s claims would fall within the
scope of the arbitration agreement. 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to this motion.  Thus, Plaintiff has not raised any arguments
regarding the enforceability and scope of the arbitration clause, whether she
signed the arbitration agreement, or unconscionability. 
As such, the Court
finds there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate the claims asserted in the
complaint and the scope of the arbitration provisions are sufficiently broad to
cover the claims in this action between Plaintiff and Lyft.  Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration
is granted.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Lyft, Inc. shall proceed to
arbitration and the remainder of the claims alleged against Defendant Juan L.
Estrada shall be stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration.  
The Case Management Conference set for
February 6, 2024 is taken off-calendar.  
The Court sets a Status Conference re:
Status of Arbitration for July 31, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  
Defendant shall provide
notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: January 19, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 