 Case Number:  23BBCV00957    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ROBERT D. MOORE III,

                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BANK OF
  AMERICA, N.A., et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00967
    
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024  
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to confirm nonmonetary status



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations 
Plaintiff Robert D. Moore III
(“Plaintiff”) commenced this wrongful foreclosure action against Defendants
Bank of America, N.A. (“BOFA”), Quality Loan Service Corporation (“QLS”), and
all persons unknown claiming interest in the property located at 11643 Otsego
St., North Hollywood, CA 91601.  Plaintiff
alleges that he purchased the property on December 23, 2002.  He entered into a Short Form Deed of Trust on
September 18, 2006 with lender BOFA for a home equity line of credit (“HELOC”)
in the amount of $400,000, which named BOFA as the beneficiary and Plaintiff as
the borrower.  On July 20, 2007,
Plaintiff entered into a modification of the Short Form Deed dated September
18, 2006 (“HELOC Modification”) changing the principal amount from $400,000 to
$500,000, naming BOFA as the lender and Plaintiff as the borrower.  
On October 3, 2016, QLS, who was
substituted in as trustee of the Short Form Deed executed a Notice of Default
(“NOD”) on the HELOC, which stated that Plaintiff owed $119,058.07 as of
October 3, 2016.  Plaintiff alleges that
BOFA and QLS have not sent him a new NOD in the past 7 years.  
After the NOD was sent, Plaintiff
commenced a lawsuit in 2017 against BOFA and QLS, which settled in 2022.  The settlement stated that Plaintiff would
pay BOFA $675,000 in exchange for BOFA’s release of the Short Form Deed and
lien on the property.  Plaintiff alleges
that he worked diligently to obtain a new loan to pay the settlement and BOFA
needed to make a simple statement to his new lender regarding the payment, but
BOFA refused to give Plaintiff’s lender the statement.   
On April 11, 2023, QLS recorded and
allegedly served on Plaintiff a Notice of Trustee’s Sale (“NOTS”), which stated
the indebtedness was for $718,487.03 and set the non-judicial foreclosure on
May 4, 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that the
trustee’s sale has been postponed twice due to the Court granting a TRO in May
and a voluntary postponement by the trustee in September.  He alleges that the trustee’s sale is set for
December 12, 2023.  He alleges that the
indebtedness in the NOTS is $178,487.03, but that this has no connection with
the debt in the 7-year-old NOD.  Plaintiff
alleges that QLS and BOFA have not sent him an accounting or explanation for
the claimed amount.  He alleges that he
does not know if the indebtedness is based on the NOD or if it is based on
default of the settlement agreement, to which then he alleges Defendants are
required to send a new NOD and opportunity to cure.  Plaintiff alleges that he now has a loan to
pay back BOFA the full $675,000 due under the settlement and he has made an offer
to tender the full amount, but needs BOFA to cooperate and not obstruct his
ability to fulfill the settlement agreement.  Plaintiff alleges he needs a new NOD and a
90-day period to complete the proposed loan. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
November 27, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) declaratory relief to
prevent a pending foreclosure sale that would be wrongful; (2) prohibit or set
aside trustee’s sale and any subsequent sale; (3) prohibit or void or cancel
trustee’s deed upon sale; (4) quiet title; and (5) claim to all equity proceeds
in the event of a foreclosure sale to prevent unjust enrichment.    
B.     Motion on Calendar and Relevant Background
On September 5,
2023, QLS filed a Notice of Nonmonetary Status (Civil Code § 2924l)
stating that it believes it has been named in the action solely in its capacity
as a Trustee under the Deed of Trust.  QLS
concurrently filed a declaration in support of its notice.  
On September 25,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the notice of non-monetary status. 
On October 27,
2023, QLS filed a motion to confirm nonmonetary status.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
            Civil Code, § 2924l states:
(a) In the event
that a trustee under a deed of trust is named in an action or proceeding in
which that deed of trust is the subject, and in the event that the trustee
maintains a reasonable belief that it has been named in the action or
proceeding solely in its capacity as trustee, and not arising out of any
wrongful acts or omissions on its part in the performance of its duties as
trustee, then, at any time, the trustee may file a declaration of nonmonetary
status. The declaration shall be served on the parties in the manner set forth
in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
(b) The
declaration of nonmonetary status shall set forth the status of the trustee as
trustee under the deed of trust that is the subject of the action or
proceeding, that the trustee knows or maintains a reasonable belief that it has
been named as a defendant in the proceeding solely in its capacity as a trustee
under the deed of trust, its reasonable belief that it has not been named as a
defendant due to any acts or omissions on its part in the performance of its
duties as trustee, the basis for that knowledge or reasonable belief, and that
it agrees to be bound by whatever order or judgment is issued by the court
regarding the subject deed of trust.
(c) The parties
who have appeared in the action or proceeding shall have 15 days from the
service of the declaration by the trustee in which to object to the nonmonetary
judgment status of the trustee. Any objection shall set forth the factual basis
on which the objection is based and shall be served on the trustee.
(d) In the event
that no objection is served within the 15-day objection period, the trustee
shall not be required to participate any further in the action or proceeding,
shall not be subject to any monetary awards as and for damages, attorneys' fees
or costs, shall be required to respond to any discovery requests as a nonparty,
and shall be bound by any court order relating to the subject deed of trust
that is the subject of the action or proceeding.
(e) In the event
of a timely objection to the declaration of nonmonetary status, the trustee
shall thereafter be required to participate in the action or proceeding.
Additionally, in
the event that the parties elect not to, or fail to, timely object to the
declaration of nonmonetary status, but later through discovery, or otherwise,
determine that the trustee should participate in the action because of the
performance of its duties as a trustee, the parties may file and serve on all
parties and the trustee a motion pursuant to Section 473 of the Code of Civil
Procedure that specifies the factual basis for the demand. Upon the court's
granting of the motion, the trustee shall thereafter be required to participate
in the action or proceeding, and the court shall provide sufficient time prior
to trial for the trustee to be able to respond to the complaint, to conduct
discovery, and to bring other pretrial motions in accordance with the Code of
Civil Procedure.
(f) Upon the
filing of the declaration of nonmonetary status, the time within which the
trustee is required to file an answer or other responsive pleading shall be
tolled for the period of time within which the opposing parties may respond to
the declaration. Upon the timely service of an objection to the declaration on
nonmonetary status, the trustee shall have 30 days from the date of service
within which to file an answer or other responsive pleading to the complaint or
cross-complaint.
(g) For purposes
of this section, “trustee” includes any agent or employee of the trustee who
performs some or all of the duties of a trustee under this article, and
includes substituted trustees and agents of the beneficiary or trustee.
(h) A fee shall not be charged for the filing of a declaration of
nonmonetary status pursuant to this section.
(Civ. Code, § 2924l.)  
DISCUSSION 
QLS moves to
confirm its nonmonetary status.  In
support of the motion, QLS filed the declaration of nonmonetary status by
submitting the declaration of Bounlet Louvan on September 5, 2023.  
In the
declaration, Bounlet Louvan states he is a foreclosure legal liaison and former
trustee sale officer for QLS.  (Louvan
Decl., ¶1.)  Bounlet Louvan states that
QLS is a Trustee under the DOT dated September 18, 2006, is a named Defendant
in this action solely its capacity as Trustee, and believes that it has not
been named as a Defendant because of any acts or omissions on its part in the
performance of its duties as Trustee.  (Id.,
¶¶4-5.)  Bounlet Louvan states that QLS
believes that is has been named simply as a nominal Defendant and that
Plaintiff is not seeking any monetary or other relief against it other than as
a necessary party for the purposes of verifying acts taken and/or carrying out
any necessary acts in accordance with its position as Trustee under the
DOT.  (Id., ¶6.)  Bounlet Louvan states that QLS agrees to be bound
by whatever order or judgment is issued by the Court regarding the Trustee,
provided such order or judgment is nonmonetary relief only.  (Id., ¶7.)  The declaration conforms to the requirements
of Civil Code, § 2924l(b).  
The notice and
declaration of nonmonetary status were served on September 5, 2023 on
Plaintiff’s counsel and BOFA’s counsel by mail and email.  (See Proof of Service, filed September 5,
2023.)  
On September 25,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the notice of non-monetary status.  In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that QLS
is not simply a trustee in a non-judicial foreclosure nor merely a bystander
trustee who took no part in the harm done to Plaintiff by the wrongful
foreclosure actions of Defendants. 
Plaintiff argues that the complaint at paragraph 10 alleges that each of
the Defendants were the agent or employee of the remaining Defendants and that
they acted within the course and scope of such agency/employment, such that the
representations, actions, or obligations of each of the Defendants should be treated
as having occurred within the course and scope of such agency/employment with
the other Defendants.  Plaintiff also
argues that Defendants’ collective actions also include their failure to send
Plaintiff a proper NOD prior to commencing a non-judicial foreclosure and
obstruction by Defendants of Plaintiff’s efforts to comply with the settlement
agreement.  
The opposition was
filed with the Court on September 25, 2023 and served on BOFA’s counsel and
QLS’s counsel on September 25, 2023 by mail and email.  According to the objection, Plaintiff states
that he timely filed the objection/opposition on September 25, 2023 date based
on QLS’s service of the notice by mail. 
(September 25, 2023 Objection at p.2.) 
(It is unknown whether Plaintiff was in receipt of the notice by
email.)  QLS argues that Plaintiff did
not timely object because the objection was due by September 22, 2023 (15 days,
plus 2 court days for electronic mailing), but Plaintiff filed an untimely
objection on September 25, 2023. 
(Crystal R. Davieau Decl., ¶¶7-8.) 
While Plaintiff timely filed and served the opposition (objection) based
on the date the notice was mailed, it would technically be untimely if only
considering the date QLS emailed the notice. 
However, simply because QLS emailed the notice does not negate service
or the time extension provided by service by mailing, and QLS has not provided
case law showing to support its argument that the date of service by email
controls over the date of service by mail. 

As such, the Court
will find that Plaintiff timely filed and served an objection to the
notice.  (Civ. Code, § 2924l(c)-(d).)  Therefore, QLS shall be required to
participate in the action or proceeding. 
(Civ. Code, § 2924l(e).)  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Quality Loan Service
Corporation’s motion to confirm nonmonetary status is denied.  
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.
 
 
 
DATED: January 19,
2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   