 Case Number:  22BBCV00836    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Mayra
  Aguayo,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
burbank
  periodontics, dental implants & laser surgery, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00836
 
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel deposition of defendant
  marc y. waki
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Mayra Aguayo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she worked at Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser Surgery
(“Burbank Periodontics”) as a hygiene coordinator from November 10, 2021 to
August 15, 2022.  She alleges that her
supervisors were Defendant Marc Y. Waki, Dr. Vahe Nakashyan, Dr. Taylor, and
Dr. Martina Elenkova.  Plaintiff alleges
that she enjoyed her work, but over time, Dr. Waki began straining the professional
relationship between himself and Plaintiff and began directing a flirtatious
tone toward her in January 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Waki would get physically close to her and
placed his hand on her back when no one was looking.  Plaintiff alleges that toward the end of
January 2022, Dr. Waki approached her, told her she was pretty, and touched her
hair and face with his hand.  Plaintiff
alleges that she would try to interact with Dr. Waki only when others were
around, but when others were not around, he would touch her lower on her back
until he began touching her buttocks. 
Plaintiff alleges that in June 2022, Dr. Waki grabbed her hand and in
July 2022, he physically got close to her and told her that he wanted
Plaintiff.  In late July 2022, Plaintiff
alleges that she asked Dr. Waki about changing her last name after recently
having gotten married, but that Dr. Waki got visibly upset and began denying
her permission to leave work early on Fridays to pick up her daughter though
other employees were able to come and go as they pleased.  She alleges that Dr. Waki made the decision
to terminate her on August 15, 2022 without any reason. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
June 23, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) harassment based on sex (Gov’t
Code, § 12940(j)) against all Defendants; (2) discrimination based on sex
(Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (3) discrimination
based on marital status (Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr.
Nakashyan; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA (Gov’t Code, § 12940(h)) against
Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (5) battery against Dr. Waki; (6) sexual battery
(Civ. Code, § 1708.5) against Dr. Waki; and (7) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan.   
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendants Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser
Surgery and Marc Y. Waki DDS from the complaint. 
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On December 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel the deposition of Dr. Waki. 
  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel the deposition of Dr. Waki. 

Plaintiff states
that the parties had originally agreed to conduct Dr. Waki’s deposition on
August 2, 2023, but due to Plaintiff’s filing of the FAC and adding 2 new
defendants, the parties agreed to continue the deposition to October 18,
2023.  Plaintiff states that due to her counsel’s
scheduling conflict with trial, Plaintiff had to move the deposition and
requested new dates on October 11, 2023 for some time in November or
December.  (Jurczak Decl., ¶8, Ex. F
[Emails].)  On October 20, 2023, Dr.
Waki’s counsel’s firm informed Plaintiff’s counsel that defense counsel had a
congested schedule from December to February, but that they would make Dr. Waki
available for his remote deposition on January 24, 2024 at 10 a.m.  (Id., Ex. F [Emails].)  Ms. Jurczak states that to date, no dates have
been received by Dr. Waki’s counsel.  (Id.,
¶9.)  Plaintiff then noticed Dr. Waki’s
deposition on November 15, 2023 for December 6, 2023, but offered to move the
date if Dr. Waki proposed a deposition date between November or December of
2023.  (Id., ¶¶9-10, Ex. E [Second
Deposition Notice].)  Plaintiff went
forward with the deposition on December 6, 2023 and Dr. Waki did not appear at
the deposition, such that Plaintiff obtained a certificate of non-appearance.  (Id., ¶12, Ex. I [Certificate of
Nonappearance].)  Plaintiff argues that
she was forced to bring this motion due to Dr. Waki’s disregard for his
obligations to the lawsuit and failure of his counsel to provide dates for the
deposition in November or December.  (See
id., Ex. H [Emails].)  
Based on Dr.
Waki’s previously proposed date of availability, it appears that Dr. Waki can
be made available for his deposition on January 24, 2024.  Although an opposition brief was not filed by
Dr. Waki, Dr. Waki filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s ex parte application to
advance the hearing on the motion to compel. 
In his opposition brief to the ex parte application, Dr. Waki argues
that there is nothing to compel since he can be made available for his
deposition on January 24, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not stated to the contrary whether the January 24, 2024 date is
inconvenient for her counsel.  As such,
the parties should meet and confer to determine whether the January 24, 2024
date is a mutually agreeable deposition date so that the deposition may go
forward promptly without further delays. 
Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2,544.60 against Dr. Waki and his counsel
of record.  The Court declines to award
sanctions on this motion.  As
acknowledged by Plaintiff in the motion papers, Dr. Waki made himself available
multiple times prior to the filing of this motion but his deposition was
continued due to Plaintiff’s filing of the FAC and Plaintiff’s counsel’s trial
schedule.  Dr. Waki and his counsel also
informed Plaintiff and her counsel that they would not be available for a
deposition in December 2023 but Plaintiff went forward with noticing the
deposition for a December date knowing that Dr. Waki would not be in
attendance.  Although the January 2024 date
was over 90 days from the scheduled October 2023 deposition date, Plaintiff’s
counsel should have extended the courtesy of accommodating Dr. Waki and his
counsel’s schedule, just as they did for Plaintiff’s counsel’s trial schedule.  (See LASC Local Rule, Appendix 3.A.(e) [“In scheduling
depositions, reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating
schedules or opposing counsel and of the deponent, where it is possible to do
so without prejudicing the client’s rights.”].) 
Thus, the Court declines to
award sanctions on this motion.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Plaintiff Mayra Aguayo’s motion to
compel Dr. Waki’s deposition is granted such that the deposition will be set
for January 24, 2024.  If this date is
not a mutually agreeable date for the deposition, the parties are ordered to
attend the hearing so that a mutually agreeable date can be ascertained and
scheduled—preferably within 30 days of the hearing date.  
            No
sanctions shall be awarded on this motion. 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED:  January 19, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  