 Case Number:  23BBCV00770    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
kababe,
  inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
marilyn
  karmazyn, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00770
 
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to be relieved as counsel; motion
  to compel depositions 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Kababe, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or
“Kababe”) alleges that Defendant International Real Estate Holdings, LLC
(“IREH”) owned real property located at 2320 W. Victory Blvd., Burbank, CA
91506 and that Defendant Marilyn Karmazyn (“Karmazyn”) leased the property
where she operated Defendant Blazin’ Burgers LLC (“Blazin’ Burgers”).  Plaintiff alleges that Karmazyn added a
drive-through to the property at some point during her tenancy.  In 2022, IREH and/or Karmazyn retained
Defendants Zoom Business Brokers (“Zoom”) and Defendant Joseph Khoury (“Khoury”)
to sell Blazin’ Burgers and find a new tenant to lease the property, or to sell
the property to a third party.  
In October 2022, the Burbank City Council
voted to enact a moratorium on all drive-through restaurants.  (See Compl., ¶¶13-18.)  In October 2022, Khoury called the City of
Burbank to inquire about the moratorium’s impact on the property.  Plaintiff alleges that despite the
moratorium, Khoury and Zoom improperly listed the property and business for
sale as an existing drive-through restaurant that could be permitted for a new
restaurant.  Plaintiff alleges that the
listing falsely advertised that the property and business benefitted from an
existing drive-through that could be sole and transferred to a new owner
operating a new and different restaurant, but contrary to the representations,
the drive-through could only be used if the business did not make any changes
to the operating name, menu, hours, or physical appearance of the
property.  
Plaintiff alleges that in December 2022,
Khoury brokered a deal to sell the drive-through business to Plaintiff and
lease the property to Plaintiff, knowing that Plaintiff wanted to change the
use of the property from Blazin’ Burgers into a kabab restaurant with a
different name and menu.  Plaintiff
alleges that on November 19, 2022, Plaintiff and Karmazyn signed a written Purchase Agreement for Business Assets from
Karmazyn/Blazin’ Burgers for $80,000.  Plaintiff
alleges that in December 2023, it attempted to get a permit to operate the
replacement restaurant at the property, but was informed for the first time
that the moratorium would not allow it to make any changes to the business or
get permits for the restaurant.  Plaintiff
demands mediation in attempts to cancel the Purchase Agreement and Lease.  
The complaint, filed April 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) appointment of mediator; (2) breach of
written contract; (3) negligence/negligent misrepresentation; (4) fraud; (5)
cancellation of instrument; and (6) declaratory relief. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On May 15, 2023, Zoom Business Brokers
filed a cross-complaint against Kababe and Arouti Agoupi for: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.
On May 24, 2023, International Real Estate
Holdings, LLC filed a cross-complaint against Kababe and Arouti Agoupi for: (1)
breach of contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. 
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
On December 15, 2023, Defense counsel,
Steven N. Richman, Esq., filed a motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendants
Marilyn Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers. 
The motion was initially set for hearing on January 12, 2024, but continued
to January 19, 2024.  Counsel filed
additional papers on January 12, 2024.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.   
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
single motion to compel: (1) the deposition of the person most knowledgeable
(“PMK”) for Blazin’ Burgers LLC; (2) the deposition of Marilyn Karmazyn; (3) responses to Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”) from Karmazyn;
and (4) responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”) from Karmazyn.  On January 3, 2024, Defendants Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers filed a
limited opposition requesting the postponement of the motion.  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Defense counsel, Steven N. Richman, Esq.
(“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendants Marilyn Karmazyn
and Blazin’ Burgers (“Defendants”).  
Counsel filed this instant motion to be
relieved as counsel on December 15, 2023.  The matter came for hearing on January 12,
2024, and the Court continued the hearing so that Counsel could file the MC-052
declaration form and MC-053 proposed order form.  On January 12, 2024, Counsel filed an MC-052
declaration form and MC-053 proposed order form pursuant to CRC Rule
3.1362.  
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel
because during the course of the litigation, certain irreconcilable differences
arose between Defendants and Counsel, which prevented effective representation
by Counsel’s firm, Defendants were informed of the inability of Counsel to effectively
represent them, and the office has made all necessary efforts to resolve the
differences and avoid the motion but such efforts have been unsuccessful.  (MC-051, §3; MC-052, § 2.)  For these reasons, Counsel seeks to withdraw
from representing Defendants in this action. 

Counsel properly served Defendants at their
last known mailing address, which was confirmed by mail from clients within the
past 30 days of filing the motion.  Counsel
for the other parties in this action were served on December 18, 2023.  
As for future hearing dates, a motion to
compel discovery/deposition is set for January 19, 2024 concurrently with this
motion to be relieved as counsel, a Mandatory Settlement Conference is set for
August 30, 2024, the Final Status Conference is set for January 16, 2025, and
the Trial is set for January 27, 2025.  Thus, there is sufficient time for Defendants
to obtain substitute counsel. 
Accordingly, the motion to be relieved as
counsel is granted.  The order electronically
lodged by Counsel will be signed at the hearing.  The order will become effective upon the
filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Defendants.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS
            Plaintiff filed a single motion to
compel the deposition of Blazin’ Burger’s PMK, the deposition of Karmazyn, responses to FROG from Karmazyn, and responses to RPD from Karmazyn.  
A.   
Single Motion Filed 
According to the motion’s
reservation sheet, Plaintiff only paid 1 filing fee in the amount of $61.65 for
a single motion to compel discovery.  In
the motion, Plaintiff argues that it is bringing a single motion because
Defendants served one combined opposition. 
(Mot. at p.5.)  Nevertheless, the
Court will consider the merits of the motion to compel depositions.  The Court will consider the substantive
merits of the motion to compel the depositions of Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burger’s
PMK only.  Although this appears to be
two separate requests, Karmazyn is the PMK of Blazin’ Burgers.  
If Plaintiff seeks to have the other
requests heard, Plaintiff should pay the filing fee for 1 additional motion.  The Court will continue the hearing on the
motion to compel responses to the FROG and RPD from Karmazyn. 
B.    
Merits of the Motion to Compel the Depositions of
Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers’ PMK
Plaintiff moves to compel the depositions
of Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers’ PMK.  
In the limited opposition brief, Karmazyn
and Blazin’ Burgers request that the discovery motions be continued because
Karmazyn (managing member of Blazin’ Burgers) claims to be hospitalized and
under constant medical care in Tennessee and is unable to participate in
discovery at this time and defense counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel.  
On August 15, 2023, Plaintiff served the
notice of taking Karmazyn’s deposition for September 12, 2023 at the Law Office
of Grant K. Peto in El Segundo, CA.  (Peto
Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.)  On September 5, 2023,
defense counsel served an objection to the deposition on the ground that the
notice was untimely, Karmazyn does not live in California, Karmazyn is ill, and
the date was unilaterally selected by Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶3, Ex. B.)  Plaintiff argues that its counsel requested
dates multiple times to conduct the depositions for Karmazyn and Blazin’
Burgers’ PMK, but defense counsel did not respond or refused to cooperate.  (Id., ¶4, Ex. C.)  On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff served a notice
of taking the deposition of Blazin’ Burgers’ PMK, setting the deposition for
November 8, 2023 to take place at the Law Office of Grant K. Peto in El
Segundo, CA.  (Id., ¶6, Ex.
F.)  On October 27, 2023, defense counsel
served an Objection to Written Discovery and Notice of Deposition of the PMK,
stating that Karmazyn (defendant and PMK) was very ill and unable to participate
in discovery, the deponent is defunct, Karmazyn lives in another state and
beyond the geographical limit for an in-person deposition, the deposition date
was unilaterally selected by Plaintiff’s counsel, and there was no urgency to
take the deposition as the trial is scheduled for January 27, 2025.  (Id., ¶7, Ex. G.)
Plaintiff argues that it took efforts to
accommodate the PMK’s deposition schedule and after ample warning, it scheduled
the deposition and Defendants improperly objected to the notice without
evidence of Karmazyn’s illness or that she lives in a different state.  Plaintiff argues that the address of Blazin’
Burger according to its Statement of Information is located at 528 South
Beachwood Drive, Burbank, CA 91506.
            Mr. Peto provides a copy of the
Secretary of State – Statement of Information dated June 5, 2019, arguing that
the document shows that Blazin’ Burgers is not a defunct LLC.  However, the document is for Tacorama LLC.  While Karmazyn is the managing member for Tacorama
LLC, it is unclear what connection Tacorama LLC has to Blazin’ Burgers.  (See Peto Decl., ¶10, Ex. I.)  The Court will not consider the Statement of
Information of Tacorama LLC to be the operative Statement of Information for
Blazin’ Burgers.
            With respect to Karmazyn’s purported
illness or non-residency in California, neither side presents evidence that
Karmazyn has any medical issues or that she resides in California or in
Tennessee.  As such, any objection based
on Karmazyn’s purported illness or health is overruled, as no documentary
evidence has been provided.  Next, as
defense counsel has now been relieved as counsel, Plaintiff should make efforts
to meet and confer with Karmazyn and ascertain her address of residency prior
to re-noticing her deposition.  In the
moving papers, Art Agoupi (cross-defendant and manager of Plaintiff Kababe)
states that while discovery has been ongoing, Karmazyn has been calling him and
told him by telephone that she would agree to sit for her deposition.  (Agoupi Decl., ¶17.)  Thus, it appears that Plaintiff and/or his
counsel have been in contact with Karmazyn personally and can meet and confer
with her to obtain a mutually agreeable deposition date and to determine her
location.  
            The Court grants the motion to
compel the deposition of Karmazyn, as an individual and as Blazin’ Burgers’
PMK. 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions in
connection with the motion.  The Court
will award Plaintiff $1,000 in attorney’s fees and $60 in filing fees for
sanctions on this motion.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defense counsel Steven N. Richman’s motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted. 
The order electronically lodged by Counsel will be signed at the
hearing.  The order will become effective
upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Defendants
Marilyn Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers LLC. 
 As Blazin’ Burgers LLC is a
corporate entity, it cannot represent itself in propria persona.  (See Rogers
v. Municipal Court (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1318.)  Thus, the Court will set an Order to Show
Cause re Status of Representation of Blazin’ Burgers LLC for March 14, 2024 at
8:30 a.m. 
Plaintiff Kababe,
Inc.’s motion to compel the deposition of Marilyn Karmazyn, as an individual and as the person most knowledgeable for Defendant Blazin’ Burgers LLC, is
granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to meet
and confer with Karmazyn to ascertain a mutually agreeable deposition date and
to determine whether the deposition will take place in person or remotely.  If the meet and confer efforts fail,
Plaintiff may notice the deposition of Karmazyn within 45 days of this order.  Defendant Marilyn Karmazyn is
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,060 to Plaintiff, by and
through counsel, within 45 days of notice of this order.
            Plaintiff’s
motion to
compel responses to the FROG and RPD from Marilyn Karmazyn, is continued to February 2, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay 1 additional
filing fee for this separate motion for initial discovery responses by the end
of the business day on January 26, 2024. 
If the filing fee is not paid by this date, this additional motion will
go off-calendar.  No further briefing may
be permitted on this motion. 
            Each
party shall provide notice of their respective order. 
 
DATED: January 19, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 