  Case Number:  23TRCV02952    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer with Motion to Strike
            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part. It is overruled as to the
third cause of action for tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability,
eighth cause of action for retaliatory eviction, and ninth cause of action for
IIED. It is sustained without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action
for Violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, and sustained with leave to amend
as to the sixth cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation. 
Defendants’ motion
to strike is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On September 5,
2023, Plaintiff, Michelle Anaya (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Verne Becker, and South Bay Management Services, LLC. 
On March 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”), against Defendants, Verne
Becker (“Becker”), South Bay Management Services, LLC (“South Bay”), and Mary
E. Colin (“Colin”).
On June 24, 2024,
the court sustained Defendants South Bay and Colin’s demurrer to the FAC with
20 days leave to amend.
On July 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint (“SAC”), against Defendants South
Bay, Colin, and Becker, alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (3) Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability; (4) Violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (5)
Negligence; (6) Negligent Misrepresentation; (7) Constructive Eviction; (8)
Retaliatory Eviction; (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (10)
Private Nuisance; and (11) Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that on August 17, 2018,
she entered into a written lease for a single-family residence in Manhattan
Beach. (SAC, ¶ 20.) The SAC further alleges that Becker is the owner, and South
Bay is the manager of the property. Plaintiff also alleges that Colin was the
sole managing member and/or principal of South Bay. (Id., ¶¶ 11-13.) 
Plaintiff asserts that throughout her tenancy at the
subject property, her requests for repairs were either ignored, denied, or
completed in a sub-standard manner and without the appropriate permits from the
City of Manhattan Beach (“City”). (Id., ¶ 21.) Among many other issues, Plaintiff
alleges that there were substantial and dangerous electrical issues at the
property that she informed Defendants of. (Id., ¶¶ 22, 26, 28, 30.) 
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that additional
electrical circuits needed to be installed to facilitate power to the laundry
machine and refrigerator to avoid using an extension cord, which was a fire
hazard. (Id.) Further, the SAC alleges that in or about November 2019,
Plaintiff discovered that most of the property was connected to only one
circuit, caused numerous fixtures and appliances to shut off at any given
moment. She further alleges that it was subsequently discovered in April 2022,
that there was loose, deteriorating and ungrounded wiring, which was shown to
Plaintiff by the electrician that was dispatched, and she personally saw the
wire insulation crumble to the floor. (Id., ¶ 32.)
Plaintiff further alleges that through her tenancy, the
electrical outlets throughout the property would work intermittently, which is
indicative of faulty wiring. Further, she alleges for several winters, there
was little or no heat at the property. (Id., ¶ 33.) Plaintiff alleges she was
unable to use a space/portable heater because it would cause the circuits to
"trip" and all the lights would shut off. (Id.) Plaintiff also
claims that the property was built in 1939 and there was no weather insulation
to keep the cold out. (Id.) 
Further, Plaintiff alleges that the chimney looked like
it had suffered prior damage (likely from an earthquake) and the repair had
been done poorly and the chimney was pulling away from the property. (Id. ¶
49.) Plaintiff alleges that on or about March 15, 2022, Defendants dispatched a
retired contractor Bob Manning, to the property to look at the fireplace and chimney.
He agreed that it required immediate attention and cautioned Plaintiff
"not to report it to the City because he thought that the City would “red-tag”
the house immediately and she would have to move out right away. (Id., ¶ 50.)
Plaintiff claims that on or about March 16, 2022,
concerned about the potential danger to her and the neighborhood and the fact
that Manning, a licensed contractor, was so adamant about not reporting this
issue to the City, Plaintiff visited the City to report that the chimney was
pulling away from the property and that the stucco showed signs of structural
problems. (Id., ¶ 52.)
On or about March 23, 2022, code enforcement for the City
telephoned Plaintiff to alert her that the Building Department had inspected
the property and had issued a code violation. (Id., ¶ 58.)
Moreover, the SAC alleges that on March 25, 2022 in
retaliation for reporting the chimney problem to the City, Defendant Becker,
through his agent South Bay and Colin, served an illegal "No
Just-Cause" 60-Day Notice to Vacate on Plaintiff’s doorstep, in violation
of Civil Code section 1946.2. (Id., ¶ 62.)
Plaintiff also alleges that on or about March 23, 2022,
the electrician hired by Becker through his agent South Bay and Colin, came to
add an electrical service shut-off to the exterior of the property and
connected a dangling exterior wire which added an additional 120V of electrical
service into the property. The electrician also wired the service to be live
and bypassed the SCE meter. He then removed the SCE meter and left it on the
driveway and placed a cardboard piece of the opening while the power was still
on in the property. The electrician then left, explaining that SCE would come
out to the property to install the meter at a later time. (Id., ¶ 59.)
Plaintiff further alleges that on or about March 28,
2022, the SCE meter was still on the ground, uninstalled and the cardboard
piece covering the exposed electrical wires fell to the ground. It began to
rain, and Plaintiff could see that the exposed wires were getting wet.
Plaintiff called SCE to report the problem and was told to call 911
immediately, and to stay 100 feet away. Manhattan Beach Fire Department
("MBFD") were dispatched and explained to Plaintiff the dangers and
illegality of removing and bypassing the meter and leaving the electrical
service on. The City “Red-Tagged” the electrical work with a Stop-Work
Order until the property owner obtained the proper electrical permits.
(Id., ¶ 64.)
Plaintiff also claims that on or about April 1, 2022,
after discovering that Defendants’ electrician increased the voltage to the
residence from 120v to 220v, SCE "Red-Tagged" the property’s
electrical system and immediately shut-off the electrical service because it
was a safety hazard. Plaintiff could no longer live in the property as it no
longer had electricity and was forced to live at her architectural office on an
inflatable bed. (Id., ¶ 67.)
Plaintiff alleges she reported electrical problems since
2018 which were consistent with of the problems identified by the City's
Building Department, which Defendants negligently failed to address this
problem until the City red tagged the electrical work. (Id., ¶ 81.)
            On
August 21, 2024, Defendants South Bay and Colin (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed
a demurrer with motion to strike the SAC. On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
oppositions. On September 9, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The
court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts, or claims are directed
against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion
to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems
proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d
767, 782.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)
 
DISCUSSION
I.                   
Meet and Confer 
Defendant submits
the Declaration of Neil G. MacMillan, which adequately shows Counsel met and
conferred prior to bringing this demurrer with motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41, and 435.5.) 
II.                
Demurrer
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for tortious breach of the Implied Warranty
of Habitability, the fourth cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
1942.4, sixth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, eighth cause of
action for retaliatory eviction, and ninth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), arguing that they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute causes of action and are uncertain. 
i.                   
Third
Cause of Action for Tortious Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability, Fourth
Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code Section
1942.4, and Eighth Cause of Action for Retaliatory Eviction    
Defendants argue that the causes of action for tortious
breach of the implied warranty of habitability, violation of Civil Code section
1942.4, and Retaliatory Eviction can only be pled against a landlord, not
against property managers such as Colin and South Bay, and thus argue the
demurrer should be sustained as to those counts. 
a.      Tortious Breach of the Warranty of
Habitability
To
establish a breach of the implied warranty of habitability, a plaintiff must
establish (1) “the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises’
habitability,” (2) “notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable
time after the tenant’s discovery of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was
given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and” (4) “resulting
damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1297.) 
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,
929-30, the court noted that generally, agents and managers of
lessors cannot be the subject of a claim brought on the implied warranty of
habitability because an agent is ordinarily not liable on the contract when he
acts on behalf of a disclosed principal.¿(Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 903, 929.) However, because a tenant’s remedies against a
landlord are not limited to breach of warranty of habitability, he may also
plead tort actions and hold an agent liable on any properly pleaded tort cause
of action. (Id at p. 930.) The court
analyzed the following six factors to determine whether rental agents owed a
duty of ordinary care to the tenants: ¿(1) the extent to which the transaction
was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, (4)
the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct and (6) the
policy of preventing future harm. [Citation.]”¿(Id. at p. 931.) 
 
In finding that the plaintiff alleged sufficient facts to
find a landlord’s rental agent owed the tenant a duty of ordinary care, the
court reasoned,  
 
“rental¿agents¿owed
a duty of ordinary care towards the tenant because¿the transaction between the
rental¿agent¿and the landowner was clearly intended to affect the tenants, and
because harm would be foreseeable to the tenants if the rental¿agent¿did not
properly perform his duty. When the owner is located at some distance from the
rental property as in the present case (Connecticut), the tenant's¿only
practical recourse is to complain to the rental¿agent. Imposition of a duty on
the rental¿agent¿would as a matter of public policy encourage the¿agent¿to pass
the complaints along to the owner or to take action to properly maintain the
property, if this is part of his responsibilities as agreed with the owner.”  
 
(Id.
at pp. 930-31.)  
 
Here, as pled, the
cause of action for tortious breach of the implied warranty of habitability
arises in tort, not in contract. 
"The fact that the tortious act arises during the performance of a
duty created by contract does not negate the agent's liability. [Citation.] ...
'... The same act may be both a tort and a breach of contract .... Even where
there is a contractual relationship between the parties, a cause of action in
tort may sometimes arise out of the negligent manner in which the contractual
duty is performed .... A tort may grow out of or be coincident with a contract,
and the existence of a contractual relationship does not immunize a tortfeasor
from tort liability for his wrongful acts in breach of the contract.
[Citation.]'" (Id., at p. 930, citing Bayuk v. Edson (1965)
236 Cal. App. 2d 309, 320.)
 
Thus, Defendants’ argument that this
cause of action can only be pled against the landlord is unavailing. Defendant
makes no further arguments as to whether this cause of action is viable as
pled, or whether it fails for some other reason. As a result, the demurrer to
the cause of action for tortious breach of the warranty of habitability is
overruled on this ground.
b.     
Violation of Civil
Code Section 1942.4
As noted above, Defendants argue that this causes of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4 can only be brought against a
landlord, and not against property managers, as evidenced by the terms of the
statute referring to landlord.
“Under
Civil Code section 1942.4, a residential landlord may not demand or collect
rent, increase rent, or serve a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the
dwelling is untenantable as defined under Civil Code section 1941.1, is in
violation of section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and
declared substandard under section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code; (2) a
public officer inspects the premises and gives the landlord written notice that
it must abate the nuisance or repair the property; (3) the conditions have not
been remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the substandard conditions
were not caused by the tenant's acts or omissions.” (Erlach, 226 Cal.
App. 4th at 1298 (citing Civ. Code § 1942.4(a).)  In the event that
each of the circumstances under subdivision (a) of the statute is satisfied, a
tenant may bring an action for actual damages plus statutory damages of between
$100 and $5,000.  (Erlach, id. (citing Civ. Code §
1942.4(b)(1).)
Defendants also argue that they cannot be liable under Civil
Code section 1942.4 as the statute specifically provides for liability against
the landlord. The court agrees. 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that this claim arises in tort. In Stoiber, the
court stated that the plaintiff’s claim for negligent violation of
Civil Code section 1941.1 against the
landlords was viable. The court in Stoiber made clear that negligence may be used as a springboard
for a tenant's action against his landlord for failure to
maintain the premises in a habitable condition. (Stoiber,
supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at 925.) But
this does not help Plaintiff. Moving Defendants are not the landlords, but rather,
the managers. The statute expressly provides for liability of a landlord.
Plaintiff presents no legal authority that the statute applies to managers.
Even if the statute applies to managers under a negligence theory, the SAC does
not allege that this cause of action is being brought under a negligence
theory.
As a
result, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the
fourth cause of action for Civil Code Section 1942.4.
c.       Retaliatory Eviction
As
noted above, Defendants argue that this causes of action for Retaliatory
Eviction can only be brought against a landlord, and not against property managers. Again, Defendants argue that the statutes refer to
landlords.
 
Civil Code section 1942.5(a)
provides that a lessor may not cause a lessee to quit voluntarily, increase
rent, decrease any services, or recover possession of a dwelling within 180
days after a lessee makes an oral complaint to the lessor regarding tenantability,
among other things. 
 
“[T]enants who are the
victims of retaliatory conduct by their landlords have complementary rights of
action both in the common law and under the statutory scheme adopted by the
Legislature.”  (Rich v. Schwab (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 803,
811.)   
 
A tenant is protected for
making written or oral tenantability complaints to a landlord or lessor about a
dwelling.  (Civ. Code § 1942.5(a)(1); Kemp v. Schultz (1981) 121
Cal.App.3d Supp. 13, 18 [“a tenant, who is not in default in the payment of
rent, may invoke the defense of retaliatory eviction, upon proof that he has
made an oral complaint to the landlord regarding the tenantability of the
premises,” even where no complaint was made to a governmental entity].)  
The
court does not reach the same conclusion as in the cause of action for
violation of Civil Code section 1942.2, as to this cause of action for
retaliatory eviction, because this cause of action for retaliation arises in
common law and thus, it appears the agents of the landlord may be liable, as
noted above, under Stoiber. In addition, Civil Code §1942.5(c) refers to
a lessor, not a landlord. Further, Plaintiff also alleges violations of the
Tenant Protection and the Los Angeles County Covid-19 Moratorium.
Defendants
also argue that Civil Code section 1942.5 only applies where the lessee
is not in default as to the payment of rent. Defendants argue that although Plaintiff alleges she was not in default, in paragraphs 41
and 43, she alleges her own default. The court disagrees with Defendants’ characterization
of paragraphs 41 and 43. The facts alleged in those paragraphs do not plead she
was in default, but rather, she was late in paying, but she always paid within
the month. (SAC, ¶¶ 41, 43.) Further, these paragraphs do not contain a
specific date, and thus, do not show that she was in default at the time the
60-day notice was sent.
Defendants
also argue that the cause of action is not pled with particularity. The court
disagrees. The SAC alleges the following. On or about March 10, 2022, Plaintiff again complained
about the chimney to Defendants. (SAC, ¶¶ 46-47.) On March 15, 2022, Defendants
dispatched their contractor to the property to look at the fireplace and
chimney. He agreed that it required immediate attention and cautioned Plaintiff
"not to report it to the City because he thought that the City would
“red-tag” the house immediately and she would have to move out right away.
(Id., ¶ 50.) Then, Plaintiff alleges that on or about March 16, 2022, concerned
about the potential danger to her and the neighborhood and the fact that
Manning, a licensed contractor, was so adamant about not reporting this issue
to the City, Plaintiff visited the City to report that the chimney was pulling
away from the property and that the stucco showed signs of structural problems.
(Id., ¶ 52.) On or about March 23, 2022, code enforcement for the City telephoned
Plaintiff to alert her that the Building Department had inspected the property
and had issued a code violation. (Id., ¶ 58.) On March 25, 2022, Defendant
Becker, through his agent South Bay and Colin, served an illegal "No
Just-Cause" 60-Day Notice to Vacate on Plaintiff’s doorstep, in violation
of Civil Code section 1946.2. (Id., ¶ 62.)
Defendants also take issue
with the citation of Tenant Protection and the Los Angeles County
Covid-19 Moratorium, arguing that this cause of action is based on statute but
the SAC fails to plead facts with particularity. However, demurrers do not lie
as to only parts of causes of action where some valid claim is alleged, but
“must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  As the cause of action is sufficient under
Civil Code section 1942.5, the court cannot sustain the demurrer as to part of
the cause of action.
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action for
retaliatory eviction is OVERRULED.
 
ii.                 
Sixth Cause of Action for Negligent
Misrepresentation
Next, Defendants demur to
the sixth cause of action, arguing that Plaintiff failed to allege the element
of reliance. 
The elements of fraud are:
“(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure);
(b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to
induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
sixth count is premised on initial representations that the home was
appropriate for lease. (SAC, ¶¶ 126-127.) Defendant argues that any
representations about the property from the Lease are implied, not direct, and
cannot support liability. “[A] cause of action for misrepresentation requires
an affirmative statement, not an implied assertion.” (RSB Vineyards, LLC v.
Orsi (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1089, 1102.) Indeed, Plaintiff does not allege
specific statements that Defendants made as to whether the property was safe.
As such, these alleged misrepresentations are not pled with the requisite
specificity. 
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants misrepresented to
Plaintiff that the property was exempt from Tenant Protection Act 2019 and that
the property was exempt from the "just-cause" eviction restrictions
that were afforded to certain single-family residences and Plaintiff relied on
that misrepresentation and subsequently vacated the premises due to both the
60-Day Notice to Vacate and due to the "constructive" eviction, thus
causing damages to Plaintiff. (132.) However, in paragraph 67 of the SAC, she
alleges she was forced to leave the property because the power was
disconnected. As such, Plaintiff makes no assertion that she relied on these
alleged misrepresentations to her detriment. 
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants further
misrepresented to Plaintiff that the City had deemed the property uninhabitable
and that is why the electrical power was shut off, and Defendants indicated to
Plaintiff that they were working with the City with the appropriate permits to
repair the property. (SAC, ¶ ¶ 130, 131.) However, there is no assertion that
Plaintiff relied on these statements.
Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants misrepresented
to Plaintiff that she was not entitled to relocation fees. (Id., ¶ 136.)
However, again, Plaintiff failed to allege how she relied on this statement. 
            Based
on these defects, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation is SUSTAINED. However, as Plaintiff could allege reliance,
leave to amend is GRANTED. 
iii.               
Ninth Cause of Action for
IIED
Defendants demur to the ninth
cause of action for IIED, arguing that Plaintiff moved into the house in August
2018, and immediately complained about features she had supposedly carefully
reviewed before moving in. She complained about the electricity in November
2019, as well as other features occasionally. Defendants argue but she stayed
in the property, which she could not have done with no electricity at all; it
clearly worked. Defendants argue there is nothing unusual or “intolerable”
about banal complaints about a house. 
“‘The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress were summarized in [citation], as follows: “(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.”’ [Citation.]” (Flynn v. Higham (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 677,
681.) 
 
“Extreme
and outrageous conduct is conduct that is ‘“so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community”’ [citation] and must be
‘“of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress.”’  [Citation.] ‘“‘[I]t is for the court to determine, in the
first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may reasonably be regarded as
so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.’”’ [Citation.]” (Chang v.
Lederman (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 67, 86–87.) 
 
Under Stoiber, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at 922, a landlord’s failure to maintain the rental property in a
habitable and safe condition can support a claim for IIED. The court in Stoiber observed that whether the failure to act was
extreme and outrageous “under the present allegations [in that case],
present[ed] a factual question—it cannot be said as a matter of law that
[plaintiff] has not stated a cause of action.” (Id.¿at p. 922; Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep¿(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.) 
 
Here,
among other things, the FAC alleges that the Plaintiff repeatedly informed
Defendants of dangerous electrical issues, which cut off her electricity in the
cold winter months, and ultimately resulted in the City red-tagging the
property, and for 3 and a half years, Defendants failed to repair the habitability
defects. Moreover, Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants retaliated against
her for reporting the dangerous conditions. Under the facts alleged,
and in light of Stoiber,
the Court cannot say that as a matter of law that the allegations do not amount
to outrageous conduct by Defendants.  Whether Plaintiff’s electricity was actually cut off
presents a factual question, inappropriate for demurrer.
Therefore,
the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
III.             
Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants
move to strike punitive damages, arguing that Plaintiff does not specify which
if any of the Defendants acted with malice, fraud or oppression, and there are
insufficient facts pled to support a claim for punitive damages. The court
disagrees.
 
To state a
claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie
where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)  
 
“Malice” is
defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th
847, 891.)  
 
To prove
that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or
even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82,
87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant
acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer
that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a
reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined
as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress provides a basis for recovering punitive
damages. As to Defendants’ argument that it is not clear which of the
Defendants Plaintiff alleges acted with malice, Plaintiff clearly sets forth
throughout the SAC that the alleged malicious conduct was done by moving
defendants.
 
The motion to strike is denied.
 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
 