  Case Number:  23STCV18267    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  49 IIInigence LLC v. Anthony Diprizio, et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS MOVING PARTY: Defendants Anthony Diprizio and Triple 2 Digital, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff IIInigence, LLCSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff IIInigence LLC brings this action against Defendants Anthony Diprizio and Triple 2 Digital, LLC, to recover an unpaid balance of $176,381.10 allegedly due under a consulting agreement. The court entered Defendants’ Diprizio and Triple 2’s defaults on November 28, 2023 and November 21, 2023, respectively. On February 29, 2024, this court entered a default judgment against Defendants in the total amount of $195,456.41. Plaintiff served Notice of Entry of Judgment on March 1, 2024. On October 4, 2023, on its own motion, the Court ordered all judgments on the Complaint filed by IIInigence LLC on 08/02/2023 set aside and vacated. The same day, Defendants accepted service and waived and all defects of service.Defendants now move to quash service of the summons. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. Unless there are other unnamed defendants in this case, over whom there might be personal jurisdiction, consistent with this ruling, then this case should be dismissed, without prejudice, in its entirety.  [FN 1]Moving parties are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to Quash Service of SummonsI. Legal Standard“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)  “[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)  “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”  (Id. at pp. 1441-1442.)  When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.”  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) II. Objections to EvidenceDefendants submitted various objections to the declarations of Jude Lee and Michael Baranov. This court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)) or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, the court respectfully declines to rule on these objections.  The court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.   III. AnalysisDefendants Anthony DiPrizio, an individual dba T2D and, Triple 2 Digital (“DiPrizio”) and Triple 2 Digital LLC (“Triple 2 Digital”) move to quash service of summons based on lack of personal jurisdiction. Under a “general” jurisdiction analysis, nonresident defendants may be sued on causes of action unrelated to their activities within the state. (Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147.) “For an individual, the paradigm forum for the exercise of general jurisdiction is the individual's domicile.” (Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 924.) For a corporation, general jurisdiction exists only in the defendant’s state of incorporation or principal place of business. (Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown¿(2011) 131 S.Ct. 2846, 2856-2857; Daimler AG v. Bauman¿(2014) 134 S.Ct. 746, 749-750; BNSF Ry. Co. v. Tyrrell¿(2017) 137 S.Ct. 1549, 1558.)Defendant DiPrizio is formerly a resident of Montana and now resides in Massachusetts. (DiPrizio Decl. ¶¶ 8, 12.) There is no evidence that he ever lived in California. Defendant Triple 2 is alleged to “conduct[] business in the City of Los Angeles.” (Compl. ¶ 3.) The company is incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in New York City. (DiPrizio Decl. ¶¶ 1, 21.) Therefore, jurisdiction over these Defendants, if any, must be based on specific jurisdiction.“A nonresident defendant may be subject to the court’s specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contact with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would be reasonable and comports with fair play and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 216 (citing Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269).)  “‘The inquiry whether a forum State may assert specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant ‘focuses on the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’”  (Id. (citing Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 282-85).)  “For a State to exercise jurisdiction consistent with due process, the defendant’s suit-related conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Id.)   The burden is on Plaintiff to establish the facts necessary for jurisdiction. (See Ziller Elecs. Lab GmbH v. Superior Ct. (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222, 1232–33 [“When a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met.”].) Plaintiff contends that Defendants have “minimum contacts” with California because “the facts of the transaction” took place here. (Opp. 6: 16-17.) Plaintiff IIInigence, LLC, is organized under the laws of the State of California. (Lee Decl. ¶ 2.) Its principal place of business is in Valencia, CA, and all of its employees and “business operations are located in California.” (Id.) On January 18, 2022, Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a “Consulting Agreement” that underlies this lawsuit, through which Plaintiff “undertook to render software development services to Defendants.” (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s CEO, Jude Lee, attests that all of Lee’s communications with Defendants took place in Los Angeles County by telephone or email from her office in California. (Id. ¶ 3.) Additionally, “[a]ll of the work and software development services pursuant to the Consulting Agreement were performed in Valencia, California.” (Id. ¶ 5.) In Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 1558—a case Plaintiff contends “is on all fours with the present case”—the Court of Appeal addressed whether the California court had personal jurisdiction over the defendant AsiaTrust, a New Zealand Company. The plaintiff sued AsiaTrust alleging it was the transferee of a fraudulent conveyance. (Id. at 1565.) After discussing the standard under California law, the Court held that personal jurisdiction over the company was reasonable in California. The court reasoned that:AsiaTrust conducted due diligence on California resident Sonia, the trustee of Cindy's Retirement Trust. AsiaTrust sent promotional materials to Sonia and otherwise marketed to her the advantages of forming a New Zealand trust. AsiaTrust drafted the trust contract, negotiated the contractual terms with California residents Sonia and Berardo, and amended the contract. Sonia signed the amended contract, witnessed by Berardo, in California. AsiaTrust communicated by e-mail and telephone with Sonia and Berardo in California. AsiaTrust has invoiced Sonia in California for fees owed to AsiaTrust. AsiaTrust has received funds from Cindy's Retirement Trust in California and from a Swiss annuity that insures California resident Cindy. AsiaTrust has followed Berardo's instructions concerning the ownership of the Swiss annuity. AsiaTrust has wire transferred funds to Cindy's Retirement Trust's bank account in California in accordance with Sonia's instructions. Essentially, AsiaTrust has received compensation for accepting, investing, managing, disbursing, and shielding the assets of Cindy, a California judgment debtor, in a scheme that contemplates an ongoing contractual relationship for Cindy's lifetime.(Id. at 1572.)Thus, these “undisputed facts” showed that AsiaTrust “(1) created continuing obligations between itself and California residents, (2) purposefully directed (and continues to direct) its activities towards California residents, and (3) purposefully derived (and continues to derive) benefits from its activities in California.” (Id.) The Court also explained it did not matter that no AsiaTrust agent ever visited California. Even in that absence, there still existed “a veritable ‘latticework’ of contacts linking [AsiaTrust] and the State of California,” including “not one but many calls and other communications to California during the negotiations,” “[t]he execution in California of the legal documents which formed the arrangement,” “[a] continuing stream of payments from [AsiaTrust] to California,” “[a] continuing receipt by AsiaTrust of compensation from the California trustee of a California trust,” and “AsiaTrust's acceptance from the California trust of money which AsiaTrust invested as directed by the California trustee and a California lawyer.” (Id. at 1572-73.) Here, looking to the “nature and quality” of the contacts linking Defendants and the state of California, they fall short of those present in Gilmore Bank. (See Gilmore Bank, supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th [the analysis must focus “on the nature and quality of the defendant's activities in the state or with state residents”].) Defendants contracted with a California business (Plaintiff) so that Plaintiff would develop software for Defendants in California. But Defendants themselves are not soliciting business in the state or creating any continuing obligation between themselves and California residents. They did little more than enter into a contract with a California business. This one-off service and payment does not evince a “substantial connection” to California. (ViaView, Inc., supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at 216.)These actions, standing alone, do not connect the Defendants “to the forum in a meaningful way.” (Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 290.)  It is well-settled that the “’minimum contacts’ analysis looks to the defendant's contacts with the forum State itself, not the defendant's contacts with persons who reside there.”  (Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 285.)On these facts, Plaintiff has not met its burden to establish that Defendants purposefully availed themselves of the state’s benefits. Because Plaintiff has not met its initial burden, the burden need not shift to Defendants to establish that it would be unreasonable for local courts to exercise jurisdiction.  (Burger King Corp., supra, 471 US at 476.) Last, but not least, the “Consulting Agreement” entered into between the parties does not expressly state that any legal disputes are to be filed and adjudicated in California.  Plaintiff easily could have insisted on such a term, since it is a California based company.  Interestingly enough, this Consulting Agreement states, in relevant part, that it would be governed “by the laws of the State of Montana,” not California.  (See, Complaint, Exhibit “A”, Para 13) (Emphasis added.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 9, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 -   Of course, Plaintiff is certainly free to seek and appropriate remedies with the appellate courts. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.