

Hearing Date:             October 15, 2024                    
Case Name:                 Mgrdichian v. Mavusi et al. 
Case
No.:                    19STCV11143
Motion:                       Motion to Quash Order to Appear for Judgment Debtor's
Examination (Third Party)

Moving
Party:             Third Party Levon
Gugasian

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Court GRANTS the
Motion to Quash Order to Appear for Judgment Debtor's Examination (Third Party)
without prejudice. 
 

Background
 
            On March
29, 2024, Plaintiff Levon Mgrdichian (“Plaintiff”) obtained a judgment for a
fraud action against Defendant Tony Mavusi (“Defendant”).
 
            On June 21,
2024, the Application and Order for Appearance and Examination (“the Order”)
for third-party Levon Gugasian (“Gugasian”) was signed and filed.
 
            On August
6, 2024, Gugasian filed this Motion to Quash Order to Appear for Judgment
Debtor's Examination (Third Party).
 
            Plaintiff filed
no opposition to Gugasian’s motion to quash.[1] 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120 states the
following:
 
(a) Upon ex parte
application by a judgment creditor who has a money judgment and proof by the
judgment creditor by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the proper
court that a third person has possession or control of property in which the
judgment debtor has an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an
amount exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250), the court shall make an
order directing the third person to appear before the court, or before a
referee appointed by the court, at a time and place specified in the order, to
answer concerning such property or debt. The affidavit in support of the
judgment creditor's application may be based on the affiant's information and
belief.
 
(b) Not less than 10
days prior to the date set for the examination, a copy of the order shall be:
 
(1) Served
personally on the third person.
(2) Served
personally or by mail on the judgment debtor.
(c) If the
property in the third person's possession or control in which the judgment
debtor has an interest or the debt owed by the third person to the judgment
debtor is described in the affidavit or application for an order under subdivision
(a) in a manner reasonably adequate to permit it to be identified, service of
the order on the third person creates a lien on the judgment debtor's interest
in the property or on the debt for a period of one year from the date of the
order unless extended or sooner terminated by the court.
.  .  .
(e)(2) An order made
pursuant to subdivision (a) shall contain. . .[a description of property or
debt.]            
 
(f) An order made
pursuant to subdivision (a) is not effective unless, at the time it is served
on the third person, the person serving the order tenders to the third person
fees for the mileage necessary to be traveled from the third person's residence
to the place of examination. The mileage fees shall be in the same
amount generally provided for witnesses when legally required to attend civil
proceedings in the court where the examination proceeding is to be conducted.
 
Discussion
 
Although there is no specific
statute that addresses whether an Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination may be quashed, appellate courts have acknowledged these motions,
finding them not appealable. (See Fox Johns Lazar Pekin & Wexler, APC v.
Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1216 (finding that “[n]either
an order denying a motion to quash an order for a third party examination (citation
omitted), nor a post judgment order denying a motion to quash a subpoena duces
tecum served on a third party (citation omitted), is appealable” but ultimately
treating the appeal as a writ of mandate); see also Rogers v. Wilcox
(1944) 62 Cal.App.2d 978, 979.) 
 
            Gugasian advances
four arguments in support of the motion to quash: (1) no proof of service to
Gugasian or Defendant was filed, (2) the Order lacks specificity in describing
the property or debt in Gugasian’s control, (3) Plaintiff did not tender to
Gugasian fees for mileage, and (4) Gugasian cannot travel to the Court for
appearance due to his health conditions. The Court will address the arguments
in turn.
 
1.    
Proof of Service
 
The Court finds Plaintiff filed
proof of service regarding service to Gagsian, but not to Defendant. Plaintiff
filed proof of service on July 3, 2024 and again on August 5, 2024 showing that
Gugasian was personally served the Order on July 3, 2024 at 11 Ridgeline Drive,
Newport Beach CA 92660. Yet here is no proof of service indicating the
Defendant, the Judgment Debtor, was served with the Order. Thus, the
requirements for Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120, subdivision (b) have
not been met. 
 
2.    
Specificity of Application
 
The Order does not contain a
description of the property or debt Plaintiff claims Gugasian controls as
required on page 2 of the AT-138/EJ-125 Form. The declaration by Plaintiff’s
attorney Mr. Forberg, which accompanies the application for appearance and examination,
states that “[Gugasian] has information that may assist Judgment Creditor in
determining the judgment debtors' true financial condition and the nature and
location of judgment debtors' assets and sources of income” and that
“[Gugasian] has assets belonging to Judgment Creditor that the Judgment
Creditor may levy on, to satisfy the judgment against [Defendant].” (Forberg
Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5.) The Court finds that the declaration does not adequately
describe the debt or property in Gugasian’s control with facts and their
source. Moreover, Mr. Forberg’s declaration is on information and belief, and is
thus inadmissible. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 5.111(b)(2); Kellett v.
Kellett (1934) 2 Cal.2d 45, 48.)  The
requirements for Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120, subdivision (e)(2)
have not been met. 
 
3.    
Fees for Mileage 
 
Gugasian claims that Plaintiff has
failed to tender fees to Gugasian for the mileage necessary to travel to the
place of examination in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 708.120,
subdivision (f). However, Gugasian’s declaration fails to conform to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2015.5, must thus be disregarded.  
 
4.    
Gugasian’s Health Conditions
 
Gugasian claims his health
conditions prevent him from traveling to the Court for his appearance and has
attached a letter from his physician supporting this contention. Apart from the
inadmissibility and unintelligibility of the letter, as stated above, Gugasian’s
declaration is not certified under penalty of perjury, and thus cannot be relied
upon.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.5.)
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court grants
the motion to quash based on the lack of proof of service on the Defendant/Judgment
Debtor and lack of compliance with section 708.120, subdivision (e)(2). 


