  Case Number:  21STCV13351    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
3-26-24
Case
# 21STCV13351
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, San Marino Unified School District
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, John Doe
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication on the Complaint
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee
·        
5th
Cause of Action: Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child
Abuse
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a Minor
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
John Doe was a student Huntington Middle School and San Marino High School with
defendant San Marino Unified School District (SMUSD). Defendant Howard Cheung
was a teacher in SMUSD. Cheung was also an employee for defendant River Way
Ranch Camp, an overnight camping facility in Sanger, California. 
 
Beginning
in sixth grade in 2000-2001, a friendly relationship between Plaintiff and
Cheung began, which placed the two alone together in various location. The
continued contact provided Cheung opportunities to sexually molest Plaintiff,
including at River Way Ranch Camp. Plaintiff alleges SUMSD faculty and staff
saw the inappropriate time together and failed to investigate or report.
 
On
April 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Sexual Abuse of a Minor,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Sexual Harassment, Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee, Breach of Mandatory Duty:
Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse, Negligent Supervision of a Minor,
Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate, and Negligence. On June 18, 2021,
the court overruled the demurrer of SMUSD. SMUSD answered and filed a
cross-complaint.
 
On
June 28, 2022, the action was transferred from Department 32 (Personal Injury
hub) to Department 68. On June 28, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed River Way Ranch
Camp with Prejudice. On October 26, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed Howard Cheung
without Prejudice. On may 17, 2023, the court granted the motion of Western
Camps, Inc. dba River Way Ranch Camp for determination of a good faith
settlement with Plaintiff. 
 
RULING: Granted in Part/Denied
in Part.
Defendant
San Marino Unified School District (SMUSD) brings the subject motion for
summary judgment or alternatively summary adjudication to all claims named
against the entity, including Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of
Unfit Employee, Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child
Abuse, Negligent Supervision of a Minor, and Negligent Failure to Warn, Train
or Educate. SMUSD moves on grounds that Plaintiff lacks any evidence that an
administrator or supervisor of the district was actually or constructively
aware of any sexually inappropriate conduct initiated by Cheung, and/or
otherwise neither owed nor violated any potentially applicable duty/ies. 
 
Plaintiff
John Doe in opposition maintains certain employees at the school, TJ Harper,
and other person, and Herlina Neo, were aware of the sexual relationship
between Doe and Cheung, and failed to report said conduct to school authorities
in violation of school policy. Plaintiff additionally relies on signs of
purportedly inappropriate conduct between Plaintiff and Cheung amongst other
staff and faculty as “warning signs” of potentially illegal conduct. Plaintiff
denies any claim of immunity on the basis of off-campus abuse by Cheung, and
contends SMUSD remains vicariously liabile for the negligence of its employees
and administrators.
 
SMUSD
in reply characterizes the opposition as only substantively challenging the
fifth cause of action for Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected
Child Abuse, and otherwise offering no evidence in challenge to the other three
causes of action for the Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit
Employee; Negligent Supervision of a Minor; and Negligent Failure to Warn,
Train or Educate causes of action addressed in the subject motion. SMUSD
reiterates the lack of evidence in support of the claims for breach of any
applicable duty.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is
those allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 

 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . .
. has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a conflict
in the evidence.  It is not created by
speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security
Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
SMUSD initially challenges the complaint on grounds of a
denial of any basis for vicarious liability based on the conduct of Howard
Cheung. “Except as otherwise provided by statute: (a)
A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of
an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other
person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).) “A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative.” (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) The California
Supreme Court allows for a finding of vicarious liability based on claims
arising from negligence. (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 868–869.) A claim against a
government entity must rely on a direct, statutory claim of liability. (de Villers v. County of San Diego (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 238, 253-256.) “[D]irect tort liability of public
entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at
least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general tort
provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity
for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine application of
general tort principles.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)
 
Plaintiff
acknowledges the requirement of direct liability, and relies on a claim of a
breach of the special relationship between the school district and students
imposed by the doctrine of in loco parentis, as well mandatory reporter
duties applicable to certain school district employees. Plaintiff maintains an
umbrella of direct liability imposed on staff witnessing and interacting with
Plaintiff and Cheung. 
 
The
collective authority imposes a duty of care to all personnel responsible for
contributing to student welfare on campus. (Perna
v. Conejo Valley Unified School Dist.
(1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 292, 295 [“Case law in California has established that
school districts have a duty to exercise ordinary care in supervising students
on the school premises”].) California Education Code section 48200 requires
children between the ages of six to 18 years of age attend a full time school
subject to an exemption. (Ed. Code, § 48200.) “‘Because of this special
relationship, imposing obligations beyond what each person generally owes
others’ the ‘duty of care owed by school personnel includes the duty
to use reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the
hands of third parties acting negligently or intentionally,’ including
‘injuries to a student resulting from a teacher's sexual assault.’” (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 126 accord C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist., supra, 53
Cal.4th 861, 870 (internal quotation marks omitted).) Under the Child Abuse and
Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA), a “mandatory reporter” must report suspected or
known child abuse or neglect on or off campus. (Pen. Code, § 11166, subd. (a); Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist., supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 138 accord B.H. v. County of San Bernardino (2015) 62 Cal.4th 168, 186.) 
 
Plaintiff cites to multiple witnesses, but
specifically focuses on Herlina Neo and Todd J. Harper. Harper was employed by
SMUSD as an assistant to choir director Cheung and piano accompanist to said
choir, while Neo also purportedly provided piano accompaniment, though it
remains disputed whether Neo was an “employee” or the equivalent of a “parent
volunteer.” [See Declaration of Peter Reagan: Ex. 5, Deposition of Kellie Kido;
Ex. 6, Deposition of Marilyn Endert; Ex. 7, Deposition of Claudia Brown; Ex. 8,
Deposition of Linda De La Torre; Ex. 9, Deposition of Todd Jere Harper.]
 
For Neo, Plaintiff lacks any direct testimony or
declaration from the witness, due presumably at least in part from a prior
alleged deportation thereby making the witness unavailable. Plaintiff instead
depends on self-stated testimony that Neo was aware of the existence of the
relationship with Cheung, due to Plaintiff’s presence in the Cheung home “three
to four night per week.” [Declaration of Peter Reagan: Ex. 1-2, Deposition of
John Doe.] 
 
The context for the identification of Harper and Neo
arises from the representation that Harper, Neo and Cheung all shared a
condominium in Arcadia, and the witnesses therefore specifically saw Plaintiff
and Cheung sleep in the same bedroom. Plaintiff remains unsure as to whether he
directly informed Harper of any relationship, but categorically attests to
informing Neo. [John Doe Deposition, 22:17-23:11, 26:15-27:19, 29:18-30:7.] Neo
also accompanied Cheung and Plaintiff to Las Vegas. [Id., 53:12-54:20, 58:4-18.]
Plaintiff later attests to a comment about oral copulation in the course of a
surprise birthday party at the Cheung residence with Neo and Harper present, as
well as individuals Celia Hung and Nick Robertson, though it remains unclear if
there was any association with SMUSD for the latter two persons. [Id., 152:
3-23.] 
 
Harper confirms living in the condominium with
Cheung, and John Doe in fact visiting with a group of students, but could not
directly recall whether John Doe ever visited alone. [Harper Depo, 25:12-23,
33:9-34:15.] Harper maintains that off campus visits were common social
practices for choir participants, and found nothing inappropriate about such
group visits. [Id., 36:2-37:20.]
 
As for the other staff and faculty on campus, Plaintiff
relies on inference based on appearances from ongoing campus activities.
Plaintiff identifies time spent on campus with Kido, Cheung and Neo eating
lunch together and Kido seeing Cheung driving in a car together,
notwithstanding the denial of Kido regarding a basis of suspicion in the deposition
filed on behalf of SMUSD. [Doe Depo., 50:17-51:16; Declaration of Danielle
Foster, Index of Exhibits, Ex. B: Deposition of Kelly Kido, 41:24-42:8,
44:7-14, 53:3-11, 54:2-55:24, 72:14-21.] Other faculty saw Cheung favor
Plaintiff with “special treatment,” which Plaintiff contends constituted a “red
flag.” [Doe Depo., 251:9-253:22, 254:10-18.] Plaintiff also spoke with Kido
about trips to Las Vegas with Cheung after the fact during said lunches. [Id.,
260:4-262:14.] Fellow students Amy Chang and Ronni Louie confirms certain
aspects of Plaintiff’s account. [Reagan Declaration: Ex. 4, Deposition of Amy
Chang; Ex. 5, Deposition of Ronni Louie.]
 
The mandatory school attendance imposed scope of duty
applies to administrators, faculty and other personnel directly responsible for
the safety of students on the campus. The CNRA mandatory duty applies to on and
off-campus conduct observed by the applicable person(s). [De La Torre Depo,
33:13-34:5.] Any person, employee or parent volunteer assistant was not allowed
on campus with students unless and until they submitted an application, whereby
they underwent finger printing and mandatory reporter training. [Id.,
35:15-37:9; Declaration of Jason Peplinski, Ed.D.] Harper acknowledges
mandatory reporter training and an understanding of the obligation. [Harper
Depo., 17:25-19:15.] The court also finds for purposes of the instant motion
triable issues of material fact that Neo was both lawfully present on campus,
and therefore instructed on mandatory reporter obligations, even as a
“volunteer” accompanist to the choir, notwithstanding the lack of recall by
certain staff of Neo’s presence on the campus. [Correnti Decl.; Chang Depo;
Louie Depo; Kido Depo., Endert Depo., Brown Depo.]
 
On the other hand, nothing in the motion or testimony
of the fellow students or other unaffiliated persons, such as Celia Hung and
Nick Robertson, establish any basis for a finding of the imposition of a scope
of duty on said non-employees, non-campus visitors, non-campus volunteers. The
court therefore finds no basis for the imposition of liability on SMUSD via
said witnesses. The court therefore concentrates on the identified faculty and
volunteer.
 
SMUSD carefully distinguishes the
relied upon scope of the special duty of addressed in the opposition by specifically
noting the legal standard requires presence on campus, a school sponsored
activities off-campus, or some basis of proximate cause for actions on the
campus causing injury off-campus. (Hoyem
v. Manhattan Beach City Sch. Dist. (1978)
22 Cal.3d 508, 515-516; Brownell v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 787, 795
[“under certain circumstances a school district may be held liable for injuries
suffered by a student off school premises and after school hours where the
injury resulted from the school's negligence while the student was on school
premises”]; Perna v. Conejo Valley Unified
School Dist., supra, 143 Cal.App.3d
at p. 295.) Plaintiff admits that only one alleged sexual encounter between
Plaintiff and Cheung occurred on campus following volleyball practice. [Doe
Depo., 139:16-137:13; 156:10-15.]
 
Thus, other than a challenge to
immunity in opposition, the court finds insufficient supporting legal argument
or a factual nexus for a position establishing a logical extension of the in
loco parentis imposed special of duty of care to any and all alleged off campus
conduct between John Doe and Cheung, including the trips to Las Vegas and solo
visits to the Cheung home. In other words, the court concurs with SMUSD that Plaintiff
cannot conflate the two separate standards of duty into a single
undistinguished challenge for purposes of opposing the motion for summary
judgment. The differences present relevant distinctions when considering the
individual negligence reliant causes of action under the guise of Education
Code 44808, versus the mandatory CNRA imposed reporter requirements. 
 
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee:
Granted.
A
district may be imputed with liability for the actions of a teacher “if individual District employees responsible for hiring
and/or supervising teachers knew or should have known of prior sexual
misconduct toward students, and thus, that he posed a reasonably foreseeable
risk of harm to students under his supervision.” (Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1855; C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 875.) The subject cause of action falls
under the Education Code 44808 imposed special duty standard. 
 
SMUSD previously screened Cheung
through a fingerprint search, which returned a report of no known pedophiliac
predilections or other basis indicating a foreseeable danger. [De La Torre and
Correnti Decl.] Plaintiff offers no dispute to the declaration of Marilyn
Endert denying any inappropriate activity on campus or on school trips between
John Doe and Cheung. It also remains undisputed that only sexual encounter
occurred on campus, and Plaintiff offers no argument of any witness on campus
at the time in any way becoming aware of the purported encounter. 
 
Instead, John Doe relies on an
argument of “red flags” based on circumstances. While John Doe maintains
regular lunches with Kido, disclosure of the trips to Las Vegas, and seeing the
two in the same car together, as cited above, Kido testified to a lack of any
recollection of eating lunch with Neo and Harper, seeing John Doe and Cheung in
a vehicle together, or ever speaking with John Doe about sexual relations with
Cheung. [Kido Depo.] Claudia Brown and Marilyn Endert also deny any observed
inappropriate behavior on campus, which John Doe also denies in deposition
testimony. [Index of Evidence: Ex. G, Declaration of Marilyn Endert; Ex. K:
Declaration of Claudia Brown; Doe Depo.] 
 
The school supervisory power in no
way limits the scope of duty to “actual knowledge,” but also requires
observance of signs indicating potential “grooming,” even if ambiguous in the
context of activities. (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary
School Dist., supra, 72 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 135-136.) Retroactive resolution of potentially ambiguous conduct
however raises the improper specter of assuming the worst in a colleague. (Steven F. v. Anaheim Union High School Dist. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 904, 917-918 accord Federico v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1216.) The California Supreme
Court specifically addressed disallowing claims to proceed simply based on
speculation, which would otherwise threaten the careers of teachers,
counselors, administrators, etc., and potentially further undermined student
teacher/counselor relationships, when based on management policies sufficiently
demonstrating an exercise of sufficient due care. (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School
Dist., supra,
53 Cal.4th at pp. 878-879; Steven F. v. Anaheim Union High
School Dist. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 904, 918-919.)

 
The subject testimony between
Plaintiff and Kido constitutes a direct conflict of accounts. An argument can
be made for triable issues of material fact on the basis of conflicting
accounts. The court cannot weigh the credibility of evidence in a motion for
summary judgment/summary adjudication. Still, even accepting the truthfulness
of all deposition testimony from John Doe as absolutely truthful, SMUSD makes
very clear in the reply that nothing in the communications to, or purported
observations by Kido, Brown, Neo or Harper, in any way presents a legal basis
of liability under the required elements for a negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention of an unfit employee claim.
 
None of these witnesses are in any way alleged to hold
responsibility for the hiring and/or supervision of their fellow instructors.
The opposition lacks any evidence of information communicated to any
administrator through other means. The court declines to rely on speculation
that any communication may have occurred for purposes of thwarting summary
adjudication. (Virginia
G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 1848, 1855; C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist., supra, 53
Cal.4th at p. 875.) The court therefore  finds no triable issues of material fact
regarding a breach of any duty by any person(s) responsible in the hiring and
supervision of Howard Cheung. The court therefore grants the motion for summary
adjudication on the subject cause of action. 

 
5th
Cause of Action, Breach of Mandatory Duty, Failure to Report Suspected Child
Abuse: Denied.
SMUSD maintains that no employee
of the school witnessed inappropriate conduct on or off campus thereby
triggering a mandatory duty to report. [Declaration of Danielle Foster, Index
of Exhibits: Kido Depo; Declaration of Marilyn Endert; Declaration of Todd
Harper; Declaration of Claudia Brown.] (Doe
v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist., supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 143; Steven F. v. Anaheim Union High
School Dist. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 904, 907-909.)
Plaintiff relies on the conversations and activities with Neo and Harper, as
well as other faculty and staff on campus witnessing the “special treatment”
towards John Doe.
 
Under CANRA, “A mandated reporter
has a ‘reasonable suspicion’ when ‘it is objectively reasonable for a person to
entertain a suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in
a like position, drawing, when appropriate, on his or her training and
experience, to suspect child abuse or neglect. “Reasonable suspicion” does not
require certainty that child abuse or neglect has occurred nor does it require
a specific medical indication of child abuse or neglect; any “reasonable
suspicion” is sufficient.’” (B.H. v. County of San
Bernardino, supra, 62 Cal.4th at p. 186.)
 
As
addressed above, at a minimum, the court finds triable issues of material fact
regarding the presence of Neo on the campus and therefore under mandatory
reporter obligations. [De La Torre Depo.] The court finds a basis for Neo’s
knowledge of the sexual relationship between staff and a minor. [John Doe Depo;
Harper Depo.] Given the mandatory reporter obligations imposed on Neo at all
relevant times, and the categorical testimony from John Doe regarding Neo’s
presence during at least some of the prurient activities, the court finds
triable issues of material fact regarding a breach of the reporter duty by Neo.
For purposes of the subject motion, the court finds triable issues of material
fact regarding the breach by Neo imputing vicarious liability to SMUSD. The
motion for summary adjudication is therefore denied as to this cause of action.

 
6th
Cause of Action, Negligent Supervision of a Minor: Granted.
Plaintiff
again relies on allegations regarding the failure of school personnel to
interpret the signs of circumstantial, improper conduct by Cheung towards John
Doe. [Comp., ¶¶ 56-58.] 
 
“California law has long imposed on school authorities a duty to
‘supervise at all times the conduct of the children on the school grounds and
to enforce those rules and regulations necessary to their protection.
[Citations.]’ (Citations.)
The standard of care imposed upon school personnel in carrying out
this duty to supervise is identical to that required in the performance of
their other duties. This uniform standard to which they are held is that degree
of care ‘which a person of ordinary prudence, charged with [comparable] duties,
would exercise under the same circumstances.’ (citations) or ineffective
supervision (citation) may constitute a lack of ordinary care on the part of
those responsible for student supervision. Under section 815.2, subdivision (a)
of the Government Code, a school district is vicariously liable for injuries
proximately caused by such negligence.” (Dailey v. Los Angeles Unified
Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747.) The court reiterates that the subject
cause of scope of duty falls under the mandatory attenedance in loco parentis
imposed standard, thereby restricting duty to on campus or potentially related
off-campus events, where causation can be established. (Hoyem
v. Manhattan Beach City Sch. Dist., supra, 22 Cal.3d at
pp. 515-516; Brownell v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.,
supra, 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 795; Perna v. Conejo Valley Unified
School Dist., supra, 143 Cal.App.3d at p. 295.)
 
The court again finds the single incident on campus lacks any
evidence establishing a basis of actual or constructive notice. It remains
undisputed that no other off-campus encounters were school affiliated. “Generally
speaking, the absence of prior similar tortious conduct is one factor pointing
to the absence of negligent supervision.” (Jennifer C. v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1328.) “When an injury occurs
despite a defendant's efforts to provide security or supervision, it is
relatively easy to claim that, ipso facto, the security or supervision provided
was ineffective. Without more, such claims fail.” (Thompson
v. Sacramento City Unified School Dist. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1352,
1370.)
 
Again, the court accepts the deposition testimony of John Doe and
in no way weighs the credibility of the parties or campus staff and faculty
doubting, or minimally unable to recall, the accounts of John Doe. The court
also reiterates the public policy against allowing speculative claims of
whether other school staff should have interpreted the interactions between
John Doe and Cheung as the existence of grooming behavior or treatment of John
Doe as a catamite.
 
The court therefore finds no triable issues of material fact
regarding a breach of any duty based on the negligent supervision of Howard
Cheung due to retrospectively perceived warning signs, as compared to behavior
viewed as normal social interaction encouraging student development and trust. Again,
factual reliance on the breach of the CNRA mandatory reporter standard based on
the disputed telling of John Doe about trips to Las Vegas to Kido, and Kido
presumably witnessing Cheung and John Doe in a vehicle together, insufficiently
addresses the legal distinctions from CNRA and the in loco parentis special
duty of care governing the subject claim. [See Peplinski Decl. and John Doe
Depo.] The court therefore grants the motion for summary adjudication on the
subject cause of action.  
 
7th
Cause of Action, Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate: Denied.
SMUSD
challenges the subject claim on the basis that it complied with all
requirements necessary to protect students from potential teacher sexual abuse.
The argument relies on compliance with CNRA requirements, though the operative
complaint itself alleges a more general standard regarding sexual “harassment
policies.” [Comp., ¶ 65.] The opposition and reply lack any specific response
or follow-up on this particular item. 
 
This
portion of the motion relies on the declaration of Linda De La Torre, who
maintains that annual training occurred, but again seemingly focused on CNRA
requirements. [De La Torre Decl.] Given the well articulated special duty of
care versus CNRA distinction relied upon by SMUSD, the court finds the same
distinction applies to the subject cause of action. 
 
The
court finds the argument insufficiently presented and defined. The court
declines to make the arguments for the parties regarding legal distinctions,
and instead concludes SMUSD fails to establish the lack of a valid claim
regarding the sufficiency of training separate and apart from CNRA
requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Further, even if CNRA
requirements overlap, triable issues of material fact exist given the
conflicting account regarding insufficient training. [See Peplinski Decl.]
 
In summary, the court denies the
motion for summary judgment. The court grants the motions for summary
adjudication on the fourth and sixth causes of action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee Negligent Supervision of a
Minor. The court denies the motion for summary adjudication on the fifth and
seventh causes of action for Breach of Mandatory Duty, Failure to Report
Suspected Child Abuse, and Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate.
 
Trial remains set for June 24, 2024.
 
San
Marino School District to give notice.
 