 Case Number:  23STCV11192    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
3-26-24
Case
#: 23STCV11192
Trial
Date: 9-30-24
 
STIPULATED JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Berj Parseghian
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Defendant, Mycological Natural Products
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Entry of Stipulated Judgment
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
May 18, 2023, Plaintiff Berj Parseghian filed a complaint for violations of
Health & Safety Code section 25249.6 seeking injunctive relief and civil
penalties. Plaintiff alleges defendant Mycological Natural Products
manufactures, sells and/or distributes a product containing levels of lead and
cadmium exceeding acceptable regulated toxicity levels without proper warning
on the label in compliance with Proposition 65. The product is also
manufactured, sold and/or distributed by defendant Whole Foods Market
California, Inc. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Berj Parseghian moves for entry
of a stipulated judgment with defendant Mycological Natural Products. This action
arises from Health and Safety code section 25249.6: “No
person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally expose
any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive
toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable warning to such individual,
except as provided in Section 25249.10.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.6.)
Violations are enforceable via public or private action. (Health & Saf.
Code, § 25249.7, subd. (c-d).) A private prosecuting party may seek injunctive
relief and penalties. (Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (a-b).)
 
Upon establishing the right to
privately pursue the action, and in case of settlement, the plaintiff shall
submit a report to the Attorney General and obtain court approval. (Health
& Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (d-f).)
 
(4) If
there is a settlement of an action brought by a person in the public interest
under subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other than a
voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is received from the defendant,
to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and the court may approve the
settlement only if the court makes all of the following findings:
(A) The
warning that is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.
(B) The
award of attorney's fees is reasonable under California law.
(C) The
penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b).
(5) The
plaintiff subject to paragraph (4) has the burden of producing evidence
sufficient to sustain each required finding. The plaintiff shall serve the
motion and all supporting papers on the Attorney General, who may appear and
participate in a proceeding without intervening in the case.” 
 
(Health
& Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4-5).)
 
The settlement provides for injunctive
relief, warning requirements, payment of penalties and attorney fees. The terms
briefly summarized:
 
“Mycological shall be permanently enjoined from
manufacturing for sale in the State of California, ‘Distributing into the State
of California,’ or directly selling in the State of California, any Covered
Product tl1at expose a person to a ‘Daily Lead Exposure Level’ of more than 0.5
micrograms of lead per day or to a ‘Daily Cadmium Exposure Level’ of more than
4.1 micrograms of cadmium per day, unless it meets the warning requirements
under Section 3.2. 
 
“If Mycological is required to provide a warning pursuant to
Section 3.1, one of tl1e following warnings must be utilized ('Warning"): 
Option 1: WARNING: Consuming this product can expose you to
chemicals including [lead] or (and] [cadmium] which is [are] known to tl1e
State of California to cause [cancer and] birtl1 defects or otl1er reproductive
harm. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/food
Option 2: WARNING: [Cancer and] Reproductive Harm - http://www.p65wamings.ca.gov/food”
 
“Defendant shall pay a civil penalty of $7,500.00 pursuant
to Health and Safety Code section 25249.7(b), to be apportioned in accordance
with California Health & Safety Code§ 25192, with 75% of these fonds
remitted to the State of California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard
Assessment and the remaining 25% of the penalty remitted to Parseghian, as
provided by California. Health & Safety Code§ 25249.12(d) and the
instructions directly below.”
 
(2) In assessing the amount of a civil penalty for a
violation of this chapter, the court shall consider all of the following:
(A) The nature and extent of the violation.
(B) The number of, and severity of, the violations.
(C) The economic effect of the penalty on the violator.
(D) Whether the violator took good faith measures to comply
with this chapter and the time these measures were taken.
(E) The willfulness of the violator's misconduct.
(F) The deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty
would have on both the violator and the regulated community as a whole.
(G) Any other factor that justice may require.
 
(Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The court finds the penalty reasonable under the criteria.
[Declaration of Tro Krikorian.]
 
On attorney fees and costs: “Defendant shall pay
Parseghian’s counsel $45,000.00 for all attorneys' fees, expert and
investigation fees and related costs associated with this matter and the
Notice.”
 
“Since the Legislature has mandated that the court must
determine that the attorney's fees in all settlements of Private Proposition 65
actions must be ‘reasonable under California law,’ the fact that the defendant
agreed to pay the fee does not automatically render the fee reasonable. The
fact that the fee award is part of a settlement, however, may justify applying
a somewhat less exacting review of each element of the fee claim than would be
applied in a contested fee application.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, § 3201.)
 
(“1) In a case alleging failure to warn, a settlement that
provides for the giving of a clear and reasonable warning, where there had been
no warning provided prior to the sixty-day notice, for an exposure that appears
to require a warning, is presumed to confer a significant benefit on the
public. If there is no evidence of an exposure for which a warning plausibly is
required, there is no significant public benefit, even if a warning is given.
If the relief consists of minor or technical changes in the language,
appearance, or location of a warning in a manner that is not likely to
significantly increase its visibility or effectiveness in communicating the
warning to the exposed persons, there is no significant public benefit. Where a
settlement sets forth a standard or formula for when a given product requires a
warning, supporting evidence should show that at least some of the products in
controversy in the action either are, or at some time were, above the warning
level, or the existence of the standard or formula itself may not establish the
existence of a significant public benefit.
(2) Reformulation of a product, changes in air emissions, or
other changes in the defendant's practices that reduce or eliminate the
exposure to a listed chemical, in lieu of the provision of a warning, are
presumed to confer a significant benefit on the public. Where a settlement sets
forth a standard or formula for reformulation, supporting evidence should show
that at least some of the products in controversy in the action either are, or
at some time relevant to the litigation were, above the agreed-upon
reformulation standard or formula, or else the mere agreement to a
reformulation standard or formula may not establish the existence of a
significant public benefit. Similarly, where a settlement requires changes in
air emissions or other changes in the defendant's practices, supporting
evidence should show that the changes in air emissions or to the defendant's
practices will result in emissions or exposures that are less than the
emissions or exposures that either are present or were present at some time
relevant to the litigation, or else the mere agreement to make the changes may
not establish the existence of a significant public benefit.
...
(c) Necessity of Private Enforcement. To establish necessity
of private enforcement, the plaintiff should establish that its continued
prosecution of the action was necessary to obtain the relief in the settlement.
For example, where a defendant proposed in writing to provide certain relief,
and the settlement or judgment does not provide any significant additional
relief, additional fees incurred after the time that the offer was rejected may
not be reasonable or necessary.
(d) Reasonable Fees. Hourly fees should be those reasonable
for attorneys of similar skill and experience in the relevant market area. Once
a lodestar fee is a calculated, a multiplier of that amount is not reasonable
unless a showing is made that the case involved a substantial investment of
time and resources with a high risk of an adverse result, and obtained a
substantial public benefit. No fees should be awarded based on additional time
spent in response to the Attorney General's inquiries or participation in the
case, unless specifically identified and approved by the court.
(e) Documentation. All attorney's fees and any investigation
costs sought to be recouped in a Settlement should be justified by
contemporaneously kept records of actual time spent or costs incurred, which
describe the nature of the work performed. Declarations relying on memory or
recreated, non-contemporaneously kept records may raise an issue concerning the
accuracy of the time estimate.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, § 3201, subd. (b-e).)
 
“Upon motion, a court may award attorneys' fees to a
successful party against one or more opposing parties in any action which has
resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest
if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been
conferred on the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity
and financial burden of private enforcement, ... and (c) such fees should not
in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1021.5.)
 
The declaration in support lists approximately 95 hours in
fees, plus $3,500 in costs, with a sought after billable rate of $550/hour.
[Krikorian Decl.] The number of hours and rate exceeds the requested amount.
The court finds the fees reasonable under loadstar analysis. (PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.)
 
The settlement also contains a
general release. The court finds no violation in the release.
 
The motion for entry of stipulated
judgment is granted.
 
Non-Jury
trial remains set for September 30, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 