 Case Number:  23STCV13283    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







NKEMJIKA AMADI,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CHARLES R. DREW UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE AND SCIENCE, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV13283




Hearing Date:


March 5, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
CHARLES R. DREW UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE
  AND SCIENCE’S MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
  PURSUANT TO CCP § 473(B)



 
Background
Plaintiff Nkemjika
Amadi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 9, 2023 against Defendant Charles
R. Drew University of Medicine and Science (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and (5) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200, et seq. 
On July 25, 2023, default was entered against Defendant. On October
13, 2023, default judgment was entered for Plaintiff and against Defendant. 
Defendant now moves for
an order to set aside the Court’s
entry of default and default judgment pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473,
subdivision (b). Plaintiff
opposes.
 
Discussion
A.   
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff failed to serve the opposition on Defendant. The proof of service
attached to the opposition states that the opposition was served on February 15,
2024 by email to “cathrine.hazany@ogletree.com.”
Defendant’s
counsel submits a declaration in connection with the reply, in which she states
that “the Proof of Service indicates that Plaintiff served
cathrine.hazany@ogletree.com. That email address is missing the second ‘e’ in
my first name, Catherine not Cathrine.” (Suppl. Hazany Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant
also notes that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision (b)(3), “[b]efore
first serving a represented person electronically, the person effecting service
shall confirm the appropriate electronic service address for the counsel being
served.” Defendant’s counsel states that “Plaintiff never reached out to verify [her] email
address…” (Suppl. Hazany Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Because Defendant has submitted a substantive reply brief
that addresses the arguments made in Plaintiff’s opposition, the Court
elects to exercise its discretion to consider the opposition.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300, subd. (d).) Defendant’s counsel states that “[o]n February 21, 2024, [she]
checked the Court’s docket and saw that Plaintiff filed her Opposition on
February 15, 2024,” and that Defendant’s counsel’s “office retrieved a copy of
the Opposition from the Court.” (Suppl. Hazany Decl., ¶ 2.)
B.   
Defendant’s Motion for Relief from Entry of
Default and Default Judgment 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 “[B]ecause the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” ((Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233 [negative treatment on other grounds].) Where the party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and no prejudice to the opposing
party will result from setting aside the default, “very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in
setting aside the default.” (Ibid.)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) also contains a mandatory provision:
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” Under the mandatory
provision, the attorney’s neglect does not need to be excusable. (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 225.) 
Defendant submits the Declaration
of John W. Patton, Jr., Defendant’s General Counsel and Secretary to the Board
of Trustees. (Patton, Jr. Decl., ¶ 3.) In his supporting declaration, Mr.
Patton, Jr. states that “[o]n June 15, 2023, I received the summons and
complaint in the above-captioned matter, which was personally served on
[Defendant] at its business address (where my office is located) on that day.
The same day, I provided the complaint to [Defendant’s] Director, Risk
Management and Campus Safety Armando A. Estrada, MS, to submit to [Defendant’s]
insurance company for potential coverage evaluation and defense. Mr. Estrada
interacts with our insurance company in his capacity as Director, Risk
Management.” (Patton, Jr. Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Mr. Patton, Jr. states
in his declaration that “I mistakenly believed that [Defendant] would be
assigned defense counsel and did not need to take any further action. I was not
aware that the insurance company had not responded to Mr. Estrada and had not
assigned counsel to defend [Defendant].” (Patton, Jr. Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Patton,
Jr. further states that he “received no further documents regarding the case
from the court or Plaintiff’s counsel, and was not contacted by either until
January 31, 2024, when [he] learned that [Plaintiff] was attempting to levy
[Defendant’s] bank account.” (Patton, Jr. Decl., ¶ 8.)
Defendant asserts that
in light of the foregoing, it “has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, subd. (b).” (Mot.
at p. 6:4.) Defendant also provides a copy of its proposed answer to the
Complaint. (Hazany Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) In addition, Defendant asserts that “the
Court entered its default judgment on October 13, 2023. This application is
timely filed within the six month period from entry of default judgment.” (Mot.
at p. 4:21-23.) The Court agrees that the instant motion is timely.[1]
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]here is no declaration from Armando A. Estrada
stating that John Patton gave him the Complaint and what he did with the
Complaint, whether he gave it to the Insurance Company or not.” (Opp’n at pp.
6:26-28.) However, the Court finds that Defendant has sufficiently demonstrated
that the default judgment here was entered as a result of Defendant’s
attorney’s mistake. As discussed, Mr. Patton, Jr., Defendant’s General Counsel,
states that “I mistakenly believed that [Defendant] would be assigned defense
counsel and did not need to take any further action. I was not aware that the
insurance company had not responded to Mr. Estrada and had not assigned counsel
to defend [Defendant].” (Patton Decl., ¶ 7.) Thus, the Court finds that relief is warranted here under the
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
As
noted by Plaintiff, “[t]he court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Here, Plaintiff requests
$6,270.00 in attorney’s fees
incurred due to “Defendant’s failure to file a response to the Summons and Complaint in this
matter…” (Ukeje Decl., ¶ 12.) In the reply, Defendant appears to argue that
sanctions should not be imposed here under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128 or California
Rules of Court, rule 2.30.[2] But Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437, subdivision
(b). As discussed, this provision provides that “[t]he court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b), emphasis added.) The Court finds that the requested $6,270.00 in attorney’s fees is
reasonable.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion is granted. The default and default judgment entered against Defendant are
ordered set aside.
Defendant is ordered to
pay Plaintiff the amount of $6,270.00 within 20 days of the date of this Order.
Defendant is ordered to file its answer to the Complaint within 10 days of the date of this
Order.   
Defendant is ordered to
give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  March 5, 2024        
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


