 Case Number:  22STCV39704    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



YOU LI, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
TRAVIS BAYLES, et al.   
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV39704
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 15, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to
compel initial responses from Defendant TBayles, Inc. to her RFPs is GRANTED.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.) 
 
Plaintiff’s motions to
compel further responses from Defendant Travis Bayles and Alan Quach to her
RFPs are GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel,
$700.00 per motion. 
 
Responses are due within 10
days of entry of this order. 
 
On
12/21/2022, Plaintiffs You Li and Jane Wenjun Sha (collectively, Defendants)
filed suit against Travis Bayles, Alan Quach, Sanborn Collective, LLC, and
Urban Asset Group, LLC, alleging: (1) promissory fraud; (2) fraudulent
concealment; (3) violation of Penal Code section 496; (4) breach of promissory
note; (5) intentional interference with contract; (6) breach of guaranty; and
(7) breach of guaranty. 
 
            On
12/14/2023, the Court entertained an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) and this
matter was continued and Plaintiff was ordered to file amended versions of the
motions to compel further to code if counsel
decide the motions to compel need to be heard. While five motions are calendared
for the 2/15/2024 hearing, only three amended motions were filed. Accordingly,
the Court limits its analysis to the issues raised in the three amended
motions.  
 
Plaintiff You Li
(Plaintiff) moves to compel further responses to RFPs (Set Two) from Defendants
Travis Bayles and Alan Quach. Plaintiff has also moved to compel initial
responses to RFPs (Set two) from Defendant TBayles, Inc.  For ease, the Court has consolidated its
analysis into a single ruling.
 
 
            The
motions are unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
A.    Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery 
            
            Plaintiff
moves to compel initial responses from Defendant TBayles
Inc. to Requests for Production (RFPs) (Set Two). In
particular, Plaintiff seeks to compel TBayles, Inc. to produce
the tax returns requested.
 
On 6/28/2023, Plaintiff served
defendant TBayles Inc.( Defendant) with RFPs (Set Two). After Defendant was
provided two extensions, the new deadline to respond was 8/28/2023. To date, no
responses have been provided. Moreover, Defendant did not oppose this motion.
 
            Given
the lack of opposition, the Court is without any justification for Defendant’s
failure to comply with its discovery obligations.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel initial responses is granted.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.0.. ($350/hr
x 2 hr.)  
 
B.    Motions
to Compel Further Discovery
 
Plaintiff moves to compel
further responses to (1) RFP (Set Two) No. 11 from Alan Quach; and (2) to RFP
(Set Two) No. 11 from Travis Bayles. 
 
The Court considers
Defendants’ failure to oppose the motions to be a concession to the merits of
the motions. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses are granted.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00 per
motion. ($350/hr x 2 hr.)  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 