  Case Number:  22STCV20384    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNIFER MONTZINGO 
 
        
  vs.
 
AI AI LEUNG, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV20384  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 15, 2024



 
            Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. Defendants’ motion is granted
as to the fourth cause of action. Defendants’ motion is otherwise denied. 
 
On 6/22/2022, Plaintiff Jennifer Montzingo (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Ai Ai Leung, Patrick Lau, and AP Development, LTD
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) housing discrimination; (2) violation
of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (3) general negligence; (4) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6)
violation of privacy; (7) unlawful entry into dwelling; (8) unlawful
termination of utility by landlord; (9) unlawful obstruction of access to
property; and (10) breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.  
                      
            On 11/30/2023, Defendants moved for
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s first, second, fourth, and fifth-tenth
causes of action. 
 
Factual
Background
 
            Defendants rented Plaintiff a room
from January 3, 2020 to February 3, 2020. On January 15, 2020, Plaintiff extended
her tenancy. On April 1, 2020, Plaintiff stopped paying rent, claiming COVID-19
related hardship. Defendant initiated the eviction process. Plaintiff’s tenancy
ultimately ended the first week of September 2020. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
CCP section 437c,
subdivision (q) provides:
In granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion
shall be preserved for appellate review.
            
            In light of
CCP section 437c, subdivision (q), the Court declines to rule on submitted
objections. 
 
Discussion

 
I.                  
Discrimination
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish a
housing discrimination claim against them because “there is no evidence that
can establish that Plaintiff’s continued access to LEUNG’S private garage where
LEUNG store her personal property was required for Plaintiff to have the
opportunity to use and enjoy the DEVERON RESIDENCE.” (Motion, 16: 14-16.) In
support, Defendants submitted evidence that Plaintiff was only rented out a
room, and did not negotiate special garage access prior to moving in nor did she
make it a condition to taking the room. Defendants also contend that “there is
no evidence that can establish that Plaintiff’s continued access to LEUNG’S
private garage where LEUNG store her personal property was required for
Plaintiff to have the opportunity to use and enjoy the DEVERON RESIDENCE.” (MSA
at 16:41-17.)
 
      However, in
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence that Leung admits that she had given
Plaintiff the key to the garage during her tenancy. Plaintiff also submitted
evidence that she stored her motorized wheelchair in the garage, and that this
wheelchair was her sole means of transportation out of the home. (Montzingo
Decl. at ¶¶ 7-11; 16; 21; 26-34.) Plaintiff submitted evidence that Leung took
back her key from Plaintiff and then intentionally deprived Plaintiff access
inside the garage, despite her knowledge that Plaintiff’s wheelchair was
inside. (RSS ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff submitted
evidence that she was forced to contact the police to gain access to her
wheelchair. (Ibid.) 
 
      Accordingly, there is a triable issue of
material fact as to whether or not: (1) that in order to afford Plaintiff an equal
opportunity to use and enjoy the Property it was necessary to provide Plaintiff
with garage access; (2) that it
was reasonable to provide garage access; and (3) that Defendants refused to
provide such access. (CACI No. 2548.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s housing discrimination claim is not
based solely on withdrawing access to the garage where Plaintiff stored her
wheelchair. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges the other following acts by
Defendants: 
 
Demanding that Plaintiff keep her [emotional support
animal] in Plaintiff’s bedroom at all times, by denying Plaintiff access to the
thermostat that controlled the cooling and heating of the premises, by
eliminating Plaintiff’s access to the premises’ wireless internet service
during the COVID-19 State of Emergency, by preventing Plaintiff from having
guests at the premises, by preventing Plaintiff from keeping her personal
belongings outside of her bedroom (including her indoor wheelchair), by
revoking Plaintiff’s access to the garage where her specialized wheelchair was
stored, by denying Plaintiff access to said motorized wheelchair to prevent
Plaintiff from freedom of movement, by secretly taking pictures of Plaintiff
and her belongings without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, by recording
Plaintiff and her private conversations on mobile devices and security cameras
without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, by consistently accessing the premise
without legal cause for the purpose of monitoring and harassing Plaintiff,
creating “house rules” that were exclusively applicable to Plaintiff and
frequently amended to punish Plaintiff, and by all other unlawful acts
perpetrated by the Defendants that constituted similar violations.
 
            (Complaint ¶ 149.) 
 
            Defendants did not address these
allegations in their motion, and thus summary adjudication is not properly
granted as to the entire cause of action.
 
            Based on the foregoing, summary
adjudication of this cause of action is denied. 
 
II.              
Unruh Act
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a
violation of the Unruh Act because Defendants’ conduct to evict her was
motivated by Plaintiff’s failure to pay rent, not her physical condition. 
 
“[T]o
prevail on a discrimination claim under Title III, a plaintiff must show that:
(1) he is disabled within the meaning of the ADA; (2) the defendant is a
private entity that owns, leases, or operates a place of public accommodation;
and (3) the plaintiff was denied public accommodations by the defendant because
of his disability.” (Arizona ex rel. Goddard v. Harkins Amusement
Enterprises, Inc. (9th Cir. 2010) 603 F.3d 666, 670.)  
            
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that she was targeted because of her disability, including that, “Plaintiff can and will testify that Defendants
took special pains to discriminate against her, including their dismissal of
Plaintiff’s COVID-19 Declaration of Inability to Pay Rent.”
(Opp., 8: 12-13.) However, Defendants submitted evidence that they moved to
evict Plaintiff when she ceased paying rent. In opposition, Plaintiff did not
submit evidence to dispute that she stopped paying rent. Rather, she claims
that she provided a letter from her doctor, Lucy Hwang, “advising them
that [Plaintiff] had multiple medical conditions that made [her] particularly
susceptible to COVID infection, and pleading with them to show some compassion,
and to cease threatening to create dangerous conditions for [her] by permitting
new renters to share [her] bathroom.” (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 49.) 
 
None of this evidence supports a reasonable
inference that Defendants were moving to evict her because of her
disability. However, as set forth above, Plaintiff has submitted evidence which
shows a triable issue as to whether or not Defendant’s denial of access to the
garage as a place to store Plaintiff’s wheelchair was an intentional failure to
grant an accommodation based on her disability. Accordingly, on this ground
alone, the Court denies summary adjudication. 
 
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
III.           
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish this
claim because they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care. More specifically,
Defendants argue “DEFENDANTS did not assume a duty to safeguard and/or protect
Plaintiff’s mental health from the type of emotional distress that Plaintiff
allegedly suffered during her tenancy. Furthermore, such duty does not exist as
a matter of law by virtue of the landlord-tenant relationship.” (MSA, 17:
19-22.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff conceded that NIED is not an
independent tort, and agreed to withdraw it.
 
      Based on the
foregoing, summary adjudication of this cause of action is granted. 
 
IV.           
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff cannot establish this claim
because their conduct was neither extreme or outrageous. 
 
            As set forth above, the Court
concluded a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether or not
Defendants discriminated against Plaintiff. Accordingly, there is necessarily a
triable issue as to whether or not that conduct was extreme and outrageous. 
      
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
V.               
Violation of Privacy
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for
an invasion of privacy because Plaintiff did not have a reasonable expectation
of privacy in the common areas, and Defendants conduct was not highly
offensive. 
 
The elements of a common law invasion of privacy claim are: (1) intrusion into
a private place, conversation, or matter; and (2) in a manner highly offensive
to a reasonable person.  (Mezger v. Bick¿(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 76, 86.) 
 
A determination of “offensiveness” depends on:  
(1) the degree of
intrusion;  
(2) the context,
conduct and circumstances surrounding the intrusion;  
(3) the intruder's
motives and objectives;  
(4) the setting
into which the intrusion occurs; and  
(5) the
expectations of those whose privacy is invaded. 
 
(Id. at 86-87.)  
 
“Actionable invasions of privacy must be sufficiently serious in their
nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to constitute an egregious breach
of the social norms underlying the privacy right. Thus, the extent and gravity of
the invasion is an indispensable consideration in assessing an alleged invasion
of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 37.) “The impact on the plaintiff's privacy rights must be more than
‘slight or trivial.’ ” (Mezger v. Bick, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at 87.) 
 
Here, in support, Defendants submitted evidence that her
bedroom was the “dwelling unit” for purposes of Civil Code section 1954, and
thus she had no reasonable expectation of privacy into the common areas. (SS ¶
37.)  In support, Defendants rely on LAMC
section 151.52.
 
However, Civil Code section 1940 expressly defines
“dwelling unit” as “a structure or the part of a structure that is used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one person who maintains a household or
by two or more persons who maintain a common household.” (Civil Code §1940 (c)
& (d) [“Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the application
of any provision of this chapter to tenancy in a dwelling unit unless the provision
is so limited by its specific terms]).)
 
Civil Code section 1954 applies to the entirety of the
subject property: “a structure or part of a structure used as a home,
residence, or sleeping by one person who maintains a household or by two or
more persons who maintain a common household” (Civ. Code §§ 1940; 1954).
 
Moreover, Defendants do not identify any language which
limited her dwelling unit to her bedroom alone, particularly where it is
undisputed that Plaintiff had use of more than just her bedroom under the
lease, but also had use of the kitchen, living room, bathroom, yard, and garage
(until such access was revoked). 
 
Civil Code section 1954 provides:
 
 A
landlord may enter the dwelling unit only in the following cases:

(1) In case of emergency.
(2) To make necessary or agreed repairs,
decorations, alterations or improvements, supply necessary or agreed services,
or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees,
tenants, workers, or contractors or to make an inspection pursuant to
subdivision (f) of Section 1950.5.
(3) When the tenant has abandoned or surrendered the
premises.
(4) Pursuant to court order.
                  …
 
(b) Except in cases of
emergency or when the tenant has abandoned or surrendered the premises, entry
may not be made during other than normal business hours unless the tenant
consents to an entry during other than normal business hours at the time of
entry.
 
(c) The landlord may not abuse the right of access
or use it to harass the tenant.
(d) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (e),
or as provided in paragraph (2) or intent to enter and enter only during normal
business hours. The notice             shall
include the date, approximate time, and purpose of the entry. The notice may be
personally delivered to the tenant, left with someone of a suitable age and
discretion at the premises, or, left on, near, or under the usual entry door of
the premises in a manner in which a reasonable person would discover the
notice. Twenty-four hours shall be presumed to be reasonable notice in absence
of evidence to the contrary. The notice may be mailed to the tenant. Mailing of
the notice at least six days prior to an intended entry is presumed reasonable
notice in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
            As such, the
Court finds inadequate legal support for Defendant’s contention that the
section 1954’s rules applying to landlord entry were limited to entering
Plaintiff’s bedroom. Indeed, this would lead to an illogical result, as a
landlord would not need to notify a tenant if they intended to enter to repair
the kitchen or the bathroom at any time and for any duration of time, but would
have to give notice if they intended to enter Plaintiff’s bedroom. 
   
            Here, Plaintiff submitted evidence
that: (1) she filed a police report indicating that Defendant Leung was
blocking her from exiting her bedroom, and that there was an unidentified male
in the house that was making her fear for her safety (RSS ¶35.); and (2) the
intrusions were “so significant, and so menacing” that Plaintiff sought, and
was awarded, an Elder or Dependent Abuse Restraining Order against Leung.  
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds there
is a triable issue of fact as to whether or not Defendants violated Plaintiff’s
right to privacy. 
 
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
VI.           
Unlawful Entry 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish this
claim because the common areas and vacant bedrooms were shared by other
tenants, and thus are not subject to Civil Code section 1954. 
 
For the same reasons set forth above, Defendant has not
established a matter of law that the common areas of the property being rented
by Plaintiff were not covered by Civil Code section 1954. Defendants have not
submitted sufficient legal authority to show that Leung had an unfettered right
to enter the house, including the bathroom, kitchen, and living room, at any
time. 
 
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
VII.        
Unlawful Termination of Utility and Unlawful Obstruction  
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish her
eighth and ninth causes of action for violation of Civil Code section 789.3. 
 
“Civil Code section 789.3 protects those occupying
residential premises from specified actions by the landlord, including changing
the locks, which are done with the intent to oust the resident.” (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1050.)

 
To prevail on a claim under California Civil Code Section
789.3, Plaintiff must prove tthat Defendants (1) served as a landlord for the
real property at issue, (2) “willfully cause[d], directly or indirectly, the
interruption or termination of any utility service furnished to the tenant,
including, but not limited to, water, heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone,
elevator, or refrigeration, whether or not the utility service is under the
control of the landlord” or (3) “[r]emove[d] from the premises the tenant's
personal property, the furnishings, or any other items without the prior
written consent of the tenant.” (California Civil Code Section 789.3.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish
termination of any utility because the HVAC heating defect was corrected by the
LADBS’ deadline, and because Plaintiff was not entitled to garage access and it
was not her residence. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant deprived
her of access to WiFi “at a critical moment it was required for her telehealth
medical appointments during the pendency of the “Stay-at-Home” order,” and that
the HVAC was only repaired after Plaintiff initiated the Complaint. Plaintiff furth
argues that: 
 
Defendants further argue that restricting her access to
the garage (where her wheelchair and sole means of transportation was stored)
was nonactionable, based on the frivolous assertion that the garage did not
constitute any part of her “residence”. See MSA at 26:14 (“Plaintiff did not
use the garage as her residence, rather her residence was a bedroom.”) That’s
simple nonsense, entirely unsupported by any citation to authority, and would
constitute absolutely horrific public policy if adopted as the law of
California.
 
Indeed, if Defendant’s frivolous theory were adopted, a
landlord could simply lock a tenant’s property away in a garage or storage unit
at will in order to compel them to vacate the property. Nonsense. There’s
nothing in Civil Code §780.3 that limits liability to situations where a
tenant’s property was removed from the living quarters. The word “premises” is
nowhere so limited and there’s no reason to give it such a limited meaning. See,
Otanez v. Blue Skies Mobile Home Park, 1 Cal. App. 4th 1521, 1525 (1991)
“‘residence’ is a word of varying import, and its statutory meaning depends on
the context and purpose of the statute in which it is used. The manifest
purpose of section 789.3 is to discourage landlords from using self-help. A
construction of the statute that would limit its operation to property used as
a permanent residence would defeat that purpose.”) Here, too there’s absolutely
no reason to limit the statute’s operation to solely protect property kept in
the sleeping quarters of the dwelling given the statutory purpose.
 
(Motion,
16: 11-20.) 
 
The Court finds that the removal of garage access is not
actionable here because it did not constitute a disruption of any utility service
nor did Defendants remove any of Plaintiff’s personal property. However, the
Court still finds a triable issue exists as to whether or not Defendant
violated Civil Code section 780.3. This is because Plaintiff submitted evidence
that Defendant was actually cited for depriving Plaintiff of a utility service
as of June 15, 2020, and that the HVAC controller has been intentionally
disabled at the residence. (RSS ¶ 29.) The fact that Defendants then corrected
this condition does not mean that they are not responsible for the fact of
willfully creating the condition. There is also a triable issue as to whether
or not Defendant’s intentional cutting off of WiFi access (See Plaintiff Decl.,
Exh. D) constitutes a violation of Civil Code section 780.3. 
 
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
VIII.      Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment

 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish this
claim because their effort to evict Plaintiff were not wrongful, and Plaintiff
was not actually evicted. 
 
The covenant of quiet enjoyment is not breached until
there is an actual or constructive eviction of the tenant. (Standard Live
Stock Co. v. Pentz (1928) 204 Cal. 618, 625-26.) 
 
An “actual eviction” occurs when the tenant is wrongfully
deprived of possession of the premises, while a “constructive eviction” occurs
when there is a substantial and material interference with the tenant’s
beneficial use and enjoyment of the premises. (Giraud v. Milovich (1938)
29 Cal.App.2d 543.)
 
Here, as set forth above, Plaintiff submitted evidence
that she was deprived access to her wheelchair, that she was forced to file a
restraining order against Defendant Leung to stop her entry into the unit, and
that her heat and WiFi were intentionally disrupted to cause her to leave the
premises. Accordingly, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether
or not there was a substantial and material interference with the tenant’s
beneficial use and enjoyment of the premises. (Giraud, supra, 29 Cal.App.2d
at  543.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 