  Case Number:  23STCV07444    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 10, 2024              TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Management, LLC v. B-Side Group,
LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV07444            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants Gerald Aschoff and Todd Hughes
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Nicole
Management, LLC 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/03/23: Complaint filed.
·        
10/17/23: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of a rental contract. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to pay rent on a commercial lease agreement. 
 
Defendants Gerald Aschoff and Todd
Hughes move for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint within 10
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendants
Gerald Aschoff and Todd Hughes move for leave to file a compulsory
cross-complaint. 
 
//
 
Legal Standard
 
Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the
party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).) However, parties seeking to file
untimely compulsory cross-complaints may file with the Court for leave to do
so, even though the failure to timely file resulted from oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) In
such a case, after notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to
file the cross-complaint if the party acted in good faith. This section is
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
The purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to
prevent piecemeal litigation. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 949, 959.) Compulsory cross-complaints consist of those causes of
action existing at the time of service of the answer that the defendant must
bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to bring them in any
other action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).) Specifically, compulsory
cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action
which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10(c).)
To avoid piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term
“transaction”—it is “‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . .
. but may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’” (Align
Technology, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at 960.)
 
Thus, a
motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any time during the action must
be granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless the moving party
engaged in bad faith conduct. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) The determination that the moving party acted in bad
faith must be supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.; Foot’s Transfer
& Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We
conclude that this principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of
bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file a
cross-complaint under this section”].) “Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at 99)
Rather, bad faith is “defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or
deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . , but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence,
but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or
moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.’” (Id. at 100.) 
 
Whether
Claims are Compulsory
 
Defendants seek leave to file a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and new parties Masoud and Ramin Omrany
alleging fraudulent inducement, breach of contract, and related claims arising
from the same rental agreement that is the basis of the original Complaint in
this action. (Declaration of Rachel A. Baker ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Defendants’
counsel states that the proposed cross-complaint is substantively identical to
the October 17, 2023 Cross-Complaint stricken by the Court. (Baker Decl. ¶¶
7-8.) Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that B-Side is not entitled to pursue a
cross-complaint in this action and that Defendants have not explained what
discovery gave rise to their crossclaims. Neither argument is persuasive.
First, contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, B-Side Group is not named as a party
on the proposed Cross-Complaint. (Baker Decl. Exh.1.) Second, no explanation of
the facts giving rise to the crossclaim is required in the context of a
compulsory cross-complaint. Absent an affirmative showing of bad faith with
substantial evidence, the Court is obliged to grant a motion for leave to file
an untimely cross-complaint. (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99; Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court
(1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) Plaintiff has made no such affirmative
showing. Defendants’ motion must therefore be granted, as the proposed crossclaims
are compulsory on their face. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint within 10
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 10, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 