  Case Number:  22STCV32334    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
Ronald Hegge’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
Defendant
Ronald Hegge demurs to the first, second, and eighth causes of action alleged
in plaintiff Lee Ouye’s second amended complaint.
1st
Cause of Action: Breach of Partnership Agreement
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The elements of breach of contract are: “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC
v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Hegge
argues the second amended complaint does not allege he was a party to the
subject contract.  It alleges Hegge
breached the partnership agreement governing defendant Mertz-Del Amo, a
California general partnership.  (SAC, ¶
27, Ex. A.)  Ouye alleges he is a general
partner of the partnership.  (¶ 2.)  The gravamen of the action is that Ouye, James
A. Tanner, and Bob Bosley were the managing general partners in March 2022 (¶
16), but other “partners met in secret” to remove Bosley and “purport[] to
appoint Tanner, Centeno, and Hegge” as “ ‘Interim Managing General Partners’ ”
(¶ 17).  The second amended complaint
alleges, “The Purported Management Committee … seized control of the
partnership assets and froze out” Ouye. 
(¶ 19).  
The
second amended complaint does not unequivocally allege Hegge is one of
Mertz-Del Amo’s partners or is otherwise a party to the partnership
agreement.  It instead alleges, “Hegge purports to be a Managing General
Partner of the Defendant entity MDA, although his legal relation to the entity
is uncertain because he does not appear to have any actual ownership interest
as a Partner in MDA.”  (SAC, ¶ 28.)
Plaintiff may
allege breach of contract on the theory that Hegge was a party to the contract
because Hegge “purports to be” one.  A
plaintiff may “ ‘allege any and all “inconsistent counts” that a reasonable
attorney would find legally tenable on the basis of the facts known to the
plaintiff at the time.’ ”  (Newport
Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 1207, 1223.)  “Where the
exact nature of the facts is in doubt, or where the exact legal nature of
plaintiff’s right and defendant’s liability depend on facts not well known to
the plaintiff, the pleading may properly set forth alternative theories in
varied and inconsistent counts.”  (Rader
Co. v. Stone (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 10, 29 (Rader).)  
Whether Hegge is a
partner and party to the partnership agreement is a legal conclusion that
depends on whether appointing Hegge as a managing partner at the alleged secret
meeting (SAC, ¶ 17) was legally effective. 
Plaintiff ultimately might not succeed in his contention that appointing
Hegge as a managing partner was invalid. 
That Hegge is a partner is a legally tenable theory based on the facts
alleged.  At this stage, plaintiff may allege
claims against Hegge on the basis that he is a party to the contract.
2nd
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  Hegge demurs
on the same grounds as the first cause of action: the second amended complaint
does not allege he is a partner, so he cannot owe any fiduciary duty to
plaintiff.  The court rejects this
argument for the same reasons as the first cause of action.
8th
Cause of Action: Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  “Tortious interference with contractual
relations requires ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff
and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” 
(Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141.)  Hegge argues the second amended
complaint does not allege he committed any intentional acts to induce a breach
or disruption or that any breach or disruption occurred because “Plaintiffs are
still partners in MDA and still stand to receive any benefits of the
partnership.”  (Demurrer, p. 10.)  
The
second amended complaint makes sufficient factual allegations for these
elements.  It alleges Hegge committed
various “intentional and unjustified acts” (¶ 96) including “seiz[ing] control
of the management of the partnership” (¶ 96.a), “improper and negligent
management of the affairs of the partnership” (¶ 96.c), “failing to use their
best efforts” to sell the partnership’s chief asset (¶ 96.d), “attempting to
hire” an outside business “to perform the management functions of the
partnership” (¶ 96.e), “transferring partnership property to” that business (¶
96.f), “failing and refusing to provide an accounting to Plaintiffs” (¶ 96.g),
and “excluding Plaintiffs from partnership communications, withholding
information concerning the business of the partnership, and excluding
Plaintiffs from voting on partnership decisions” (¶ 96.h).  
The
second amended complaint further alleges Hegge “refus[ed] to investigate and
collect the illegal fees collected by [co-defendant] Beverly.”  (¶ 99.) 
Plaintiff alleges this conduct harmed him because “the value of the
partnership’s assets have been diminished” (¶ 101) and “the value of
Plaintiffs’ shares of the partnership were diminished” (¶ 102).  
Hegge
also demurs on the basis that the second amended complaint alleges he is a
party to the contract, so he cannot be liable for interfering with it.  “[T]he tort cause of action for interference
with contract does not lie against a party to the contract.”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.) 
Like the first and second causes of action, the second amended complaint
may allege inconsistent theories in the alternative: Hegge either breached the
partnership agreement as a partner and party to the contract, or he interfered
with it as a non-party.  “[A] party may
plead in the alternative and may make inconsistent allegations.”  (Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th
583, 593; accord Rader, supra, 178 Cal.App.3d at p. 29 [plaintiff could
allege cause of action for breach of executed contract and interference with
prospective economic advantage].)
Disposition
Defendant
Ronald Hegge’s demurrer to the second amended complaint is overruled.Defendant
William J. Beverly’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint Defendant
William J. Beverly, as an individual and as trustee under declaration of trust
by William Mertz and Joelene Mertz, demurs to the third cause of action for
conversion alleged in plaintiff Lee Ouye’s second amended complaint.Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts to constitute conversion.  “ ‘
“A cause of action for conversion requires allegations of plaintiff’s ownership
or right to possession of property; defendant’s wrongful act toward or
disposition of the property, interfering with plaintiff’s possession; and
damage to plaintiff.” ’ ”  (SP
Investment Fund I LLC v. Cattell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 898, 907 (SP
Investment).)  “[C]ash ordinarily cannot be the subject of a
cause of action for conversion.”  (Ibid.)  But “when the money at issue is a specific
identifiable sum held for the benefit of another that has been misappropriated,
a conversion claim can be made.”  (Ibid.)Plaintiff alleges conversion of money that is
not a specific sum held for his benefit. 
Plaintiff alleges he and Beverly are both general partners of defendant
Mertz-Del Amo, a California general partnership.  (SAC, ¶¶ 1, 2, 5.)  The second amended complaint’s cause of
action for conversion alleges, “Defendant Beverly was not authorized to charge
fees to the partnership.  Despite this,
Beverly used his position as an attorney, purported managing partner, advisor
to the partnership and as trustee of trusts that had an ownership interest in
the partnership, to charge and pay management fees that were not authorized and
that he was not entitled to, as a matter of law.”  (SAC, ¶ 59.) 
The second amended complaint further alleges,
“The Partnership had a possessory interest in said accounts, and Beverly’s
improper payments to himself and entities he controlled interfered with the
Partnership’s possessory interest in the money and accounts.”  (¶ 61.) 
“Plaintiffs were damaged by Beverly’s wrongful conversion of the
partnership assets in that the value of Plaintiffs’ shares of the partnership
were diminished by the sums unlawfully collected.”  (¶ 62.) 
Plaintiff does not allege Beverly converted
specific identifiable sums of money held in trust for plaintiff’s benefit.  Plaintiff instead expressly alleges the money
belonged to the partnership, not to him. 
(SC, ¶ 61 [“The Partnership had a possessory interest” in the money].)  Beverly allegedly took the money as “fees”
for things he could not legally charge to the partnership.  These allegations do not mean defendant held that money in trust for the
partnership, let alone for plaintiff. 
Diminishing “the value of Plaintiff’s shares” is not exercising dominion
over plaintiff’s personal property. 
Plaintiff does not allege Beverly took his shares.  These allegations are equivalent to any
breach of fiduciary duty that harms a partnership.  That Beverly allegedly harmed the partnership
by taking money from it does not suffice to constitute a viable conversion
claim by one of the partners.Plaintiff’s reliance on SP Investment
is misplaced.  There, the plaintiff
alleged the defendant “received monetary distributions from the Partnership
that, under” an agreement selling the defendant’s entire partnership interest,
“he held in trust for [plaintiff’s] benefit.” 
(18 Cal.App.5th at p. 907.)  The
court held the “conversion claim, therefore, is not a generalized claim for
money but rather a claim for a specific identifiable sum of money received by”
defendant for plaintiff’s “benefit.”  (Ibid.)  The defendant thus directly assigned his
right to receive distributions to the plaintiff.  Pursuant to the sale agreement, the defendant
became a middleman for those distributions. 
He held any distributions in trust for plaintiff because he was
obligated to transfer them to plaintiff.Plaintiff also does not allege facts showing
he had ownership of or the right to possess the money Beverly allegedly
converted.  Conversion of money generally requires that the defendant “wrongfully
exercised dominion over a specifically identifiable pot of money that already
belongs to the” plaintiff.  (Voris v.
Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152–1153.) 
The plaintiff must “allege [he or she] is ‘entitled to immediate
possession at the time of conversion.’ ” 
(Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452 (Farmers).)  Plaintiff does not
allege facts establishing he was entitled to immediate possession of the money
Beverly allegedly took.  Plaintiff
alleges the partnership—not plaintiff—had a possessory interest in the money
Beverly took.  (SAC, ¶ 61.)  As the opposition argues, “The converted funds belong to the MDA
partnership, and the MDA partnership makes profit distributions (in the form of
net operating income) to its partners including Lee every month.  If management fees had not been improperly
paid to Beverly, and if Beverly had not improperly received them, the amount of
those fees would have been distributed to the MDA partners on a percentage
basis as it always is.”  (Opp., pp.
4-5.)  Rather than an immediate right to possess the
money Beverly allegedly misappropriated, plaintiff alleges Beverly
misappropriated money belonging to the partnership, which then reduced the
profit distributions plaintiff received. 
This attenuated injury is akin to depriving plaintiff of “a mere contractual right of payment” that “will
not suffice” for conversion.  (Farmers,
supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p. 452.) Defendant
William J. Beverly’s demurrer to the second amended complaint’s third cause of
action is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
