 Case Number:  22SMCV01252    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGThe Court is in receipt of an “Amended Notice of Request for Continuances on All Hearings Due to Medical Disability,” filed by Plaintiff John Tebbens (“Plaintiff”) on November 22, 2023, wherein Plaintiff seeks continuances of the hearings on the motions to compel and demurrers set for hearing on this date. Notably, the Court previously continued the hearings on the pending motions to compel due to Plaintiff’s purported medical necessity, despite Plaintiff having failed to provide any evidence of his medical status. The motions came on for hearing on October 26, 2023, and the Court continued the hearings once more after receiving a late filing from Plaintiff documenting his medical status. The Court exercises its discretion to continue the hearings set for the present date to January 12, 2024, as Plaintiff submits evidence of disability until January 2, 2024. All motion hearings shall be for setting only. The Court notes it is not eminently clear in the filed records that Plaintiff’s disability affects his ability to litigate this action, but the Court exercises its discretion to continue the hearings nonetheless.While the Court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s medical status, it takes care to note that there is no legal authority allowing the Court to repeatedly continue all hearings and essentially stay an action based on a party’s disability, particularly where the nature of the disability does not preclude the party’s ability from complying with his discovery obligations or attending hearings remotely. While brief continuances for medical reasons may be proper in the Court’s discretion, Plaintiff fails to indicate when he anticipates he will be able to participate in this action, such that the Court is concerned about Plaintiff’s timely prosecution of this action. “Trial courts are responsible for the monitoring of civil cases for the purpose of expediting them through the system.” (Wantuch v. Davis (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 786, 794.) Plaintiff is advised that if his medical status prevents him from participating in this action, it may be incumbent on him to seek legal assistance to allow him to timely prosecute this action, as the parties are entitled to timely resolution of this action.Accordingly, Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff John Tebbens’ Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff John Tebbens’ Responses to Request for Production of Documents and Things, Set One from Plaintiff John Tebbens is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff John Tebbens’ Responses to Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set Two is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff John Tebbens’ Responses to Request for Production of Documents and Things, Set is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.   for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff, John Tebbens to Respond to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff, John Tebbens to Respond to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff, John Tebbens to Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D.’s Motion to Deem Admitted Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One to Plaintiff John Tebbens is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendants Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D., Tanya Marie Cariveau, and Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendants Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D., Tanya Marie Cariveau, and Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Demurrer to Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only; and Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff John Tebbens’ First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. for setting only.On or before January 5, 2024, Plaintiff shall provide the Court with medical documentation describing the nature of his disability, ascribed by Plaintiff's treating physician and stating an anticipated date of full participation in this action. Such documentation shall be filed under seal. The Court will then make a determination as to how this case shall progress, i.e., the Court will set hearing dates for the above identified motions based on Plaintiff’s anticipated date of full participation in this action.Moving parties to give notice. 