  Case Number:  23CHCV00954    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/22/24
Case #23CHCV00954
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 1/5/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Kannella, Inc. dba Re-Max All
Pro; Charla Gonzalez and Virginia Rios
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Delia
M. Gonzalez, Monica M. Gonzalez and Jessica Acosta

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
            1.  Breach of
Contract
            2. 
Fraud
            3. 
Negligence
            4. 
Civil Battery
            5. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
            6. 
Premises Liability

 
*The causes of action in the caption of the First Amended
Complaint do not match those in the body of the complaint.  The caption lists the causes of action as: (1) Breach, (2) Violation of Civil Code 1102, (3) Fraud by
Concealment, (4) Negligence, (5) Conversion and (6) Battery.

 
RELIEF IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order striking Plaintiffs’ request for punitive and exemplary damages (p.14:3-5,
p.14:7).   
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  The motion to strike is placed
off calendar as moot.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs Delia M. Gonzalez,
Monica M. Gonzalez and Jessica Acosta’s (Plaintiffs) purchase of real property
commonly known as 9043 Greenbush Avenue in Pacoima California from Defendants
Maria Ramos and Gilardo Ramos (the Sellers). 
Defendants Kanella, Inc. dba Re-Max All Pro, Charla Gonzalez, an alleged
real estate agent, and Virginia Rios, an alleged licensed real estate broker (the
Seller Agents) were involved in the sales transaction.  
 
Plaintiffs allege that, on 12/1/22, the Sellers and the Seller
Agents failed to disclose that the property was repaired, patched, and painted
to conceal the fact that the roof needed replacement; mold had to be removed;
and there was significant rotted wood in the walls and ceilings. (FAC ¶16).  Plaintiffs allege that that Defendants Ivan
Escobar of D&M Home Inspections also failed to disclose and/or minimized
the significant damage to the roof, ceiling, and walls which were “unsound to
withstand rain, bugs, and mold.”  (FAC
¶¶18, 21).
 
As a result of the foregoing, on 4/5/23, Plaintiffs,
representing themselves, filed this action alleging various causes of action.  The caption of the original complaint listed
the causes of action as: (1) Breach, (2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1102,
(3) Fraud by Concealment, (4) Negligence, (5) Conversion and (6) Battery. The
body of the original complaint included causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Fraud; (3) Negligence; (4) Civil Battery; (5) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress and (6) Premises Liability.  The complaint did not specify against which
defendants each cause of action was alleged.  On 10/6/23, the Court sustained the Seller
Agents’ demurrer to the entire complaint with leave to amend.  On 11/28/23, Plaintiffs, still representing
themselves, filed the subject First Amended Complaint which, like the original
complaint, contains a caption which sets forth different causes of action than
the body of the First Amended Complaint.  The caption of the First Amended Complaint
lists the same causes of action as the caption of the original complaint and
the body of the First Amended Complaint contains the same six causes of action
as the body of the original complaint.  The
First Amended Complaint, again, like the original complaint, does not specify
against which defendants each cause of action is alleged.
 
After Plaintiffs failed to respond to their counsel’s
meet and confer efforts, on 1/5/24, the Seller Agents filed and served Plaintiffs,
by U.S. mail, with the instant demurer to the entire First Amended Complaint
and motion to strike which seeks an order striking Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive and exemplary damages (p.14:3-5, p.14:7).  (See Hawatmeh Decl.).  Plaintiffs have not opposed or otherwise
responded to the demurrer or motion to strike.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants demur to the entire First Amended Complaint on
the ground that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.  CCP 430.10(e).    
 
The Court finds that the First Amended Complaint is also uncertain
in that the causes of action in the caption do not
match those in the body of the pleading. 
Additionally, it is not clear what is being alleged against each
defendant as none of the causes of action contain specific allegations
regarding the defendants.  

 
Breach of Contract
 
The elements of a breach of contract cause of action are:
(1) a contract between the parties, (2) plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for
nonperformance of their obligations under the contract, (3) the defendants’
breach of their contractual obligations, and (4) resulting damages to the
plaintiffs.  Careau & Co.
(1990) 222 CA3d 1371, 1388.
 
Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action is based on a
written contract between the Plaintiffs and the Sellers, not the Seller Agents.  (FAC ¶26). 
A claim for breach of a written contract must set forth the terms of the
contract verbatim in the body of the complaint or attach a copy of the contract
and incorporate it by reference.  Otworth
(1985) 166 CA3d 452, 458-459; Twaite (1989) 216 CA3d 239, 252.  
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to attach a copy of the
written agreement or to set forth the relevant terms in haec verba or according
to their legal effect.  Additionally,
since the First Amended Complaint alleges that the underlying contract was
between Plaintiffs and the Sellers, not Plaintiffs and the Seller Agents, Plaintiffs
have failed to allege the essential element of a contract between Plaintiffs
and the Seller Agents.  See Careau
& Co., supra; (FAC ¶26).      
 
Fraud
 
The elements of a fraud cause of action are: (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. 
Engalla (1997) 15 C4th 951, 974. 
Fraud claims must be specifically pled with facts showing how, when,
where, to whom and by what means the representations were made.  Lazar (1996) 12 C4th 631, 645.  
 
Plaintiffs have failed to allege specific facts regarding
false representations made to them by the Seller Agents with the intent to
defraud, or the failure to disclose known facts about the condition of the
property.  Under Civil Code §2079(a), a
seller’s broker has a duty to “to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent
visual inspection of the property offered for sale and to disclose to that
prospective buyer all facts materially affecting the value or desirability of
the property that an investigation would reveal.”  However, such an inspection “does not include
or involve an inspection of areas that are reasonably and normally inaccessible
to this type of an inspection.”  Civil
Code 2079.3.  Therefore, the Seller
Agents did not have a duty to climb onto the roof to look for leaks or open up
the walls and ceilings to look for mold or rotted wood. Further, Plaintiffs
have failed to allege any facts to show that the Seller Agents had actual
knowledge of any of the alleged defects and affirmatively failed to disclose
these facts to Plaintiffs.   
 
Violation of Civil Code 1102/Negligence
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are: (1)
duty, (2) breach of duty, (3) proximate cause, and (4) damages.  Peredia (2018) 25 CA5th 680, 687.  It appears that Plaintiffs are alleging that
the Seller Agents breached their duty under Civil Code 2079(a) “to conduct a
reasonably competent and diligent visual inspection of the property offered for
sale and to disclose to that prospective buyer all facts materially affecting
the value or desirability of the property that an investigation would reveal.”  As noted above the inspection required of the
Seller Agents “does not include or involve an inspection of areas that are
reasonably and normally inaccessible to this type of an inspection.”  Civil Code 2079.3.  Therefore, the Seller Agents had no duty to climb
onto the roof to look for leaks or open up the walls and ceilings to look for
mold or rotted wood. 
 
Civil Battery
 
The elements of a civil battery cause of action are: (1)
defendant intentionally performed an act that resulted in a harmful or
offensive contact with the plaintiff’s person; (2) plaintiff did not consent to
the contact; and (3) the harmful or offensive contact caused injury, damage,
loss or harm to plaintiff.  Piedra
(2004) 123 CA4th 1483, 1495.  Plaintiffs
have failed to allege that any of the Seller Agents committed an act that
resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the any of the Plaintiffs.  (See FAC ¶¶1-24, 44-45). 
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
The elements of a cause of action of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
defendants; (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. 
Hughes (2009) 46 C4th 1035, 1050; Christensen (1991) 54
C3d 868, 903.  In order to recover
emotional distress damages for injury to property, there must be a preexisting
relationship between the parties or an intentional tort.  Lubner (1996) 45 CA4th 525, 532; Cooper
(1984) 153 CA3d 1008, 1012. 
 
Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts which show the
type of outrageous conduct by the Seller Agents which caused Plaintiffs to
suffer damage which is required to state a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  See Ragland
(2012) 209 CA4th 182, 203-204.  Nor have
Plaintiffs alleged facts to establish any preexisting relationship between
Plaintiffs and the Seller Agents.  
 
Premises Liability
 
Premises liability is a specialized form of negligence
which relates to care in managing real property, to prevent risk of
unreasonable harm to others.  McIntyre
(2014) 228 CA4th 664, 671.  To prevail on
a claim for premises liability, a plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant's
negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.  See CACI 1000.  A defendant is negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property if “(1) [a] condition on the property created an
unreasonable risk of harm; (2) [the defendant] knew or, through the exercise of
reasonable care, should have known about it; and (3) [the defendant] failed to
repair the condition, protect against harm from the condition, or give adequate
warning of the condition.  CACI 1003.
 
The Seller Agents did not own or control the subject
property.  The Seller Agents were merely
the brokers/agents for the Sellers. 
 
Conversion  
 
While the caption of the First Amended Complaint includes
conversion as the purported 5th cause of action, no such claim
appears in the body of the First Amended Complaint.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to
state any of the claims asserted against the Seller Agents in the First Amended
Complaint.  Additionally, the First
Amended Complaint is  uncertain with
regard to the claims against the Seller Agents.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained. 
While there is a liberal policy of allowing leave to
amend, Plaintiffs have now had two opportunities to try to plead their claims
and have failed to adequately do so.  The
First Amended Complaint suffers from the same defects as the original
complaint.  Additionally, this is the third
 demurrer to which Plaintiffs have failed
to file any opposition or response indicating that they can cure the defects in
their pleading.  (See 10/6/24
Minute Order, p.2; 3/18/24 Minute Order, p.2, p.5).  Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Based on the sustaining of the demurrer as to the
entirety of the First Amended Complaint, the motion to strike is placed off
calendar as moot.
 