 Case Number:  23PSCV02921    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  H Ramirez  v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., Case No. 23PSCV02921   The hearing on Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez’s Motion to Compel  Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified and Custodian of Records of  Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and Request for Documents is CONTINUED  to December 12, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.   Background    Plaintiff Victor Paredes Ramirez  (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:    On  November 2, 2021, Plaintiff entered into an express written contract with  American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a new 2022 Honda CR-V,  VIN # 7FARW1H75NE003437. The subject vehicle is equipped with a computerized  driver-assisting safety system known as “Honda Sensing,” which includes  adaptive cruise control, lane departure warnings, and autonomous braking known  as the Collision Mitigation Braking System. The Honda Sensing system suffers  from a defect that causes the various subsystems within it to malfunction  dangerously while the vehicles are driven (the “sensing defect”). Defendant  knew or should have known about the sensing defect before the subject vehicle  was sold and failed to disclose same.    On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed  a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for (1)  Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express Warranty and (2) Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment.   An Order to  Show Cause Re: Why Sanctions Should Not Be Imposed Against Defense Counsel for  Failure to Appear at the Informal Discovery Conference on June 11, 2024 is set  for October 10, 2024.   The Final  Status Conference is set for February 4, 2025. Trial is set for February 18, 2025.   Pending before  the Court is Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition attendance of a person  most qualified and custodian of records and request for documents.     Legal  Standard “If  the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall  describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is  requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the  deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or  agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to  the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230). “If,  after service of a deposition notice, . . . a person designated by an  organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a  valid objection. . ., fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,  or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the  notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and  testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically  stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) “A  motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following: (1)  The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (2)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. . ., or, when  the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,  electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition  notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contracted the  deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (b).) “If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the  court shall impose a monetary sanction. . ., unless the court finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) Any  motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a  request must be accompanied by a separate statement providing all information  necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses at issue.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a),(c).)    Discussion Plaintiff  moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, for an order compelling  Defendant to produce a Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian of Records to be  deposed. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of  record in the amount of $2,509.00. Plaintiff’s  counsel Timothy Lupinek (“Lupinek”) represents, and/or the accompanying  exhibits reflect, as follows: On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant  with a “Notice of Deposition of Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Person(s)  Most Qualified and Custodian(s) of Record” (“Notice”), setting the deposition  for June 24, 2024; said Notice was comprised of 54 categories of matters for  examination and 53 document production requests. (Lupinek Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A.) On  June 18, 2024, Defendant served its “Objection to Plaintiff’s Notice of  Deposition of the Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian(s) of Record and  Request for Production of Documents” (“Objection”); said Objection provided  objections to each of the matters for examination and document production  requests and advised that the deposition would not be proceeding on the date  and time scheduled. (Id., ¶ 8, Exh. C.) On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office sent  Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter, accompanied by an email  requesting an alternative deposition date. (Id., ¶¶ 6 and 9, Exhs. B and D). On  June 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office sent Defendant’s counsel a video  link to enable Defendant’s witness to participate in the deposition. (Id., ¶ 6,  Exh. B.) On June 24, 2024, at 1:00 p.m.,  Plaintiff’s counsel logged onto the video link for the deposition and stayed on  for 30 minutes, but no one appeared. (Id., ¶¶ 6 and 11, Exh. B.)  Plaintiff’s counsel then emailed Defendant’s counsel and offered Defendant’s  counsel an additional 3 days to provide alternate dates for the deposition. (Id.)  Defendant’s counsel advised that same day that he would “look into this” and  “work on providing . . . dates shortly.” (Id.) On July 10, 2024,  Plaintiff’s counsel followed up with Defendant’s counsel regarding the  requested dates; that same day, Defendant’s counsel advised, “[w]e are working on obtaining dates for AHM’s PMQ and I will  provide them once I am able.” (Id.)  The instant motion followed on August 20, 2024. The Court is inclined to continue the hearing based  on a lack reasonable and good faith meet and confer. Plaintiff’s 7-page meet  and confer dated June 20, 2024 is devoid of specific references to any of the  53 matters for examination and 54 document production requests (i.e., aside  from Matter No. 28 and Category No. 8). Accordingly, the Court will continue the hearing, to  December  12, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. The Court instructs the parties to engage in a reasonable  and good faith meet and confer in the interim. Counsel is instructed to file and serve a Joint  Status Report, outlining the parties’ meet and confer efforts and identifying  what specific categories of requested testimony and document requests remain in  dispute, no later nine court days prior to the continued hearing date.  