  Case Number:  23PSCV00436    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  H De
Valdivia v. Apex Pallets, Inc., Case No. 23PSCV00436
ORDER
ON MOTION TO QUASH SUMMONS 
Specially Appearing Defendant Alex
Loyola’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
Background
Plaintiff
Jesus De Valdivia (“Plaintiff”) alleges he sustained injuries after being attacked
and bit by a dog. On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
negligence and strict liability causes of action against Apex Pallets, Inc.
(“Apex”), and Does 1-20.
On January
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Alex Loyola
(“Loyola”) was named in lieu of Doe 1.
Pending
before the Court is Special Appearing Defendant Loyola’s motion to quash
service of summons.
Legal
Standard
“When the
plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in
the complaint, . . . and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 474).
“[W]hen a complaint
sets forth a cause of action against a defendant designated by a fictitious
name because the plaintiff is genuinely ignorant of his name or identity, and
his true name thereafter is discovered and substituted by amendment, he is
considered a party to the action from its commencement so that the statute of
limitations stops running as of the date the original complaint was filed.” (General
Motors Corp. v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 589). “A
plaintiff is ‘ignorant of the name’ if he knows the identity of the person but
is ignorant of the facts giving him a cause of action against such person.” (Wallis
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1976) 61 Cal.App.3d 782, 786.)
“Improper
service of a defendant under section 474 may be attacked by a motion to quash.”
(McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 368, 375.)
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion. . . (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10.)

Discussion
Loyola and Apex move for an order quashing service
of summons as to Loyola.
At the outset, the Court construes the motion as
having been brought by Loyola only, inasmuch as Apex would not appear to have
standing to seek any relief on behalf of Loyola.
Loyola contends that he is not a true “Doe”
defendant because Plaintiff was aware of his identity and of facts giving rise
to liability prior to the filing of this action. The Court agrees.
This action arises from a March 31, 2021 dog bit
incident. (Bell Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On or about April 5, 2022, Apex’s (and now
Loyola’s) counsel Randy Bell (“Bell”) was served a demand letter from
Plaintiff’s counsel Tigran Martinian, which attached a copy of the animal
control report from the County of San Bernardino. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. B.)
The report identifies Plaintiff as the “Person Bitten,” lists an incident date
of March 31, 2021 and the reporting agency as “Pomona Police Department,”
identifies Loyola as the “Owner” under the section listed as “Animal” and sets
forth Loyola’s address as “225 E Caldwell” in Pomona, in addition to his phone
number. (Id.)
Plaintiff advised in discovery responses that he
received the above report in October 2021. (Id., ¶¶ 6 and 8, Exhs. D, p.
7 and E, p. 30.) The complaint was filed February 14, 2023. (Id.) Again,
Loyola was named in lieu of Doe 1 via an “Amendment to Complaint” filed January
16, 2024. (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. F.)
Plaintiff asserts that section 474 applies because
the dog bite occurred just outside of Apex’s business premises on East End
Street in Pomona and “[a]ll available evidence at the time,” including the fact
that the dog was walking alongside an employee of Apex, led him to believe that
the dog was associated with Apex and not Loyola personally. (Borisov Decl., ¶¶
3-4.) Plaintiff concedes that, while he knew of Loyola’s identity, he only
first learned of the facts giving him a cause of action against Loyola through
Apex’s December 29, 2023 discovery responses, when it became known to him that
Loyola, and not Apex, was the personal owner of the dog. (Id., ¶ 10.)
This position ignores the fact that Loyola was identified on the report as the
dog’s “Owner” and that Loyola’s contact information, including a physical
address different from Apex’s location, was listed; had the owner been Apex,
the report would have listed Apex’s contact information.
Plaintiff also argues that the motion should be
denied because Loyola has not articulated any prejudice. “However, where the
requirements of section 474 are not met, lack of prejudice alone does not allow
the addition of a new defendant by amendment after the statute of limitations
has run.” (Hazel v. Hewlett (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 1458, 1466.)
The motion is granted.  