  Case Number:  20STCV40546    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  C Jesse Simpson vs Loma Linda University Medical
Center, et al.
Case No.: 20STCV40546
Hearing Date: January 16, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#1 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Plaintiff Jesse Simpson’s Motion to Quash is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background

On or about October 24, 2018, Plaintiff Jesse Simpson
(“Plaintiff”) went to Defendant Loma Linda University Medical Center seeking
follow-up care and medication after his surgery. On the day of the incident
Plaintiff was lawfully prescribed pain medication. There are conflicting
accounts as to what follows, but it is clear that a physical alteration took
place. After the physical alteration, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendants alleging physical and emotional injuries. 
Defendants seek an order to compel the medical records of
Plaintiff from the various medical institutions at which he sought treatment
for his injuries. 
A.   Motion
to Quash Subpoena
Legal Standard 
A
deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance and testimony of a
deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the
attendance and testimony, as well as the production of business records. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon motion or the court’s own
motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any
other orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  “A deposition
subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying
shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §2020.410, subd. (a).) 
When
a plaintiff puts her health and physical condition at issue, the privacy and
privileges that normally attach to such sensitive information are
“substantially lowered by the very nature of the action.”  (Heller v.
Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43.)  The Court must
“balance the public need against the weight of the privacy right” and only serious
invasions of privacy will bar discovery.  (Crab Addison, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.)  There is not an
egregious invasion of privacy every time there is a request for private
information and courts must “place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)   
However,
“although in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient . . . privileges as to all
information concerning the medical conditions which they have put in issue,
past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to information relating to
the medical conditions in question, and does not automatically open all of a
plaintiff’s past medical history to scrutiny.”  (Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849.)  The burden is on the party seeking
the constitutionally protected information to establish direct relevance. 
(Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) 
Analysis 
Defendants’ deposition subpoenas for production of medical
records from Windsor Center, Urgent Family Care, Wellsprings Center, Inland
Empire Health Plan, Diagnostic Laboratories & Radiology, Arrowhead Regional
Medical Center, and High Desert Psychological Services, Inc. seek all documents
and records in the possession of each facility from 2013 to the present. (Jass
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)  In bringing this
motion to quash, Plaintiff does not oppose the production of medical records
relating to his physical injuries, prior back injuries, or medical care from
the date of the incident.  Plaintiff does
oppose release of his psychiatric and mental health records. (Reply, p.
3.)  Defendants contend that information relating
to Plaintiff’s medical and mental health records are discoverable because
Plaintiff has placed his medical and mental condition at issue in this
lawsuit.  
 
A.   Medical
Records
The parties agree that Defendants are entitled to medical
records relating to the injuries suffered by Plaintiff on October 24, 2018 and
his medical care since the incident.  They
disagree over medical records relating to prior injuries.  Defendants argue that they are entitled to
discover a broad range of medical records because the extent of Plaintiff’s
claimed injuries is also broad.  Plaintiff
claims he suffered the following injuries from his October 24, 2018 encounter
with Defendants:
“[A] further cervical spine injury, lumbar spine injury,
pain in [plaintiff’s] neck and back, pain radiating to his arms and legs,
periodic difficulty ambulating, ongoing stiffness, abdominal pain, chest pain,
fatigue, muscle pain, weakness of the hands, weakness to the lower extremities,
spasms in the left leg, and numbness.” (Jacobsen Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, Plaintiff’s
Response to Form Interrogatory 6.2.)  
Given the extent of Plaintiff’s claimed physical injuries,
the court determines that Plaintiff’s attempt to limit the production of pre-October
2018 medical records to “back injuries” is unreasonable.  The court finds that the time period stated
in the subpoenas (2013 to the present) is appropriate.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash is
DENIED with respect to Plaintiff’s medical records.  
B.   Mental
Health Records
Plaintiff claims an equally broad range of emotional injury
as a result of his encounter with hospital security:
“Further, the battery triggered psychiatric and
psychological conditions including depression, mental suffering, humiliation,
anxiety, hopelessness and a generalized fear. Further, plaintiff suffered
emotional distress associated with being targeted and battered by those who
were supposed to administer care and protection.” (Jacobsen Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A,
Plaintiff’s Response to Form Interrogatory 6.2.)  
Given the breadth of Plaintiff’s claimed emotional
injuries, the court determines that the production of Plaintiff’s mental health
records from 2013 to the present is appropriate.  The court is unpersuaded by Plaintiff’s
argument, made here and in opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Compel Mental
Examination, that Plaintiff’s continuing injuries are of the “garden variety”
type.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Quash is DENIED with respect to Plaintiff’s mental health records.
C.   Prior
Acts of Aggression Towards Hospital Staff/Security
In addition to records relating to Plaintiff’s medical and
mental health records, Defendants seek records pertaining to any prior acts of
aggression by Plaintiff towards hospital staff/security.  Defendants claim that it was Plaintiff, not the hospital
employees, who acted aggressively during the incident.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s prior
aggressive encounters with hospital staff and security, if any, are directly
relevant to Defendants’ defense and should be subject to disclosure.  The court agrees.  Plaintiff argues that such evidence would be
inadmissible under Evidence Code § 1101 (Evidence to Prove Conduct).  At this juncture, however, it is sufficient
that the information sought could lead to admissible evidence. (CCP §
2017.010.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash with respect to any prior
acts of aggression by Plaintiff towards hospital staff/security is DENIED.
D.   Plaintiff’s
Prior and Current Drug Use
Discovery of records relating to Plaintiff’s prior and
current drug use poses a more difficult question.  Defendants contend that such records are
discoverable because Plaintiff’s drug use may explain his erratic behavior
during the incident and may affect his ability to recall.  However, it is unclear what evidence exists of
Plaintiff’s drug intoxication during the incident.  Defendants assert that “Plaintiff tested
positive for drugs on October 24, 2018” (Opposition, p. 9) but they fail to
specify which drugs.  Moreover, the
declaration offered by Defendants merely indicates Plaintiff was “intoxicated.”
(Jacobsen Decl., ¶ 13. (“plaintiff was aggressive and intoxicated at the time
of the incident”).)  On this record,
Defendants’ request for records relating to Plaintiff’s prior and current drug
use is unsupported by allegations of Plaintiff’s drug use at or near the time
of the incident.  
Defendants argue that evidence of Plaintiff’s post-October
2018 drug use is relevant because “it stands to reason that ongoing drug use
will inhibit plaintiff’s recovery from his claimed injuries” and “Continued
drug use will affect plaintiff’s perception of pain and reported pain levels.”
(Opposition, p. 9.)  Plaintiff has
already produced medical records indicating his use of methamphetamines,
cocaine, marijuana, prescription narcotics, and alcohol in 2018, 2019 and 2020.
(Jacobsen Decl., ¶ 12.) The court determines that production of records
relating to Plaintiff’s history of drug use from and including the date of the
incident to the present may be relevant to issues concerning his treatment and
the costs thereof.  
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash is GRANTED with
respect records relating to Plaintiff’s drug use before October 24, 2018 and
DENIED with respect to records relating to Plaintiff’s drug use on October 24,
2018 and thereafter.  
Plaintiff’s request for
a stay is DENIED.   