 Case Number:  22NWCV01724    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  C Peter Gustavo Pacheco Cateriano vs Gustavo
Mauricio Pacheco De Olazaval
Case No.: 22NWCV01724
Hearing Date: January 16, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#6 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant GUSTAVO MAURICIO PACHECO DE
OLAZAVAL’S Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
Defendant to give notice.
 
Background 
Plaintiff Peter Gustavo Pacheco Cateriano (“Plaintiff”), a
self-represented litigant, alleges that in 1988, when Plaintiff was 8 years
old, his half-brother Defendant Gustavo Mauricio Pacheco de Olazaval (“Defendant”)
“dropped my pants and throw me to the floor and try to penetrate me.”
(Complaint, ¶ 3.) It happened many more times for approximately 5 years, and
later in life when Plaintiff stayed at Defendant’s place in the City of Downey.
(Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) Based thereon, the Complaint asserts causes of action
for: 1. Sexual Battery, 2. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and 3.
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Analysis 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims fail for three
reasons: (1) Plaintiff failed to file a certificate of merit as required by
Cal. Civ. Pro section 340.1; (2) Plaintiff has failed to file a certificate of
corroborative fact; and (3) Plaintiff’s Claims are time barred. 
1.    Certificate
of Merit 
A
plaintiff who is 40 years of age or older in an action arising from childhood
sexual assault must file a certificate of corroborative fact and certificates
of merit executed by the attorney for the plaintiff and by a licensed mental
health practitioner selected by the plaintiff, and the court must review them in
camera.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subds. (f)-(g), (i), (n).)
In the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) Plaintiff’s Exhibit A
purports to be a Certificate of Merit by a licensed mental health practitioner.
While Exhibit A complies with most of the requirements under Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1 it fails
to indicate that the practitioner is not treating and has not treated
the plaintiff. (CCP § 340.1(g)(2).)  More
importantly, however, Plaintiff has failed to submit a Certificate of Merit by
an attorney. (CCP § 340.1(g)(2).)  
2.    Certificate
of Corroborative Fact 
Defendant
must be named “Doe” in all pleadings and filings until there has been a showing
of corroborative fact as to the charging allegations against that
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (l).)  An
application must include a certificate of corroborative fact executed by the
plaintiff’s counsel declaring that the attorney has discovered one or more
facts corroborative of one or more of the charging allegations against a
defendant or defendants and setting forth the nature and substance of the corroborative
fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (m).)  The court must review
the application and the certificate of corroborative fact in camera. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (n).)  The court must order that the
complaint may be amended to substitute the name of the defendant if, based
solely on the certificate and any reasonable inferences to be drawn from the
certificate, one or more corroborative facts of one or more of the charging
allegations has been shown.  (Ibid.) 
Here, Plaintiff sues Defendant
by name without having filed a Certificate of Corroborative Fact which meets
the requirements of CCP § 340.1(l).  Importantly,
the Certificate of Corroborate Fact must be executed by the attorney for the
plaintiff. (CCP § 340.1(m)(1).) The Court hereby strikes Defendant’s name from
the Complaint and replaces it with “Doe 1.”  Until further order of the court, any
subsequent amended complaint shall refer to Defendant as “Doe 1.” 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend. 
The Certificate of Corroborate Fact is placed under seal in
accordance with CCP § 340.1(o).  