 Case Number:  23NWCV02754    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  C Gia Development, LLC vs SC Realty Holdings II
LLC, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02754
Hearing Date: 1/16/2024 at 9:30 AM
 
#3 
Tentative Ruling 
Counsel Omar Gastelum’s Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel as to Plaintiff Gia Development, LLC is DENIED without prejudice. 
Plaintiff’s Counsel to give notice.
 
Background 
This breach of contract case involves an alleged agreement
regarding the purchase of property. 
 
Legal Standard 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an
attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one
which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind
whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the
case.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398,
406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The
court should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, 915.) 
Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the
grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c)
provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The
client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an
illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of
conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State
Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not
pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary
to the judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules
or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member
as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that
the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
Discussion

Counsel Omar Gastelum seeks to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiff Gia Development, LLC.
Counsel’s Declaration fails to specify good cause in
accordance with the Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3-700(C).
Therefore, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED
without prejudice.  
Counsel may supplement his declaration at the hearing on
the motion.  