 Case Number:  23SMCV05754    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 28, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05754




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Kord Enterprises II, Lee Summers, and Ronak
  Kordestani




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Maureen Minehart



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute between landlord Defendants Kord
Enterprises II, Lee Summers (“Summers”), and Ronak Kordestani (“Ronak”)
(“Defendants”) and tenant Plaintiff Maureen Minehart (“Plaintiff”) concerning ongoing
water intrusion and cockroach infestations at the apartment Plaintiff rented
from Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges eight
causes of action (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied warranty of
habitability/tenantability; (3) breach of implied warranty of quiet enjoyment;
(4) negligence; (5) nuisance; (6) breach of statute CCC § 1942.4; (7) intentional
misrepresentation; and (8) constructive eviction.  
 
Defendants demur to the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
causes of action on the grounds they fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (e).  Defendants
additionally demur to the seventh cause of action on the grounds of
uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f).  Further, Defendants move to strike
references to and requests for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions. 
Defendants have not replied.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of “the Grant Deed dated September 08, 2009 for the property commonly know
[sic] as 10830 Massachusetts Ave, Los Angeles, California, transferring the
subject property to Kord Enterprises II, LLC.”
 
Courts may take judicial
notice of the existence and recordation of real property records, including
deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
            Therefore, the Court takes judicial
notice of the requested Grant Deed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendants argue that the seventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation is uncertain because it is unclear what the exact
misrepresentations are.  
 
The complaint alleges:
 
10. Before executing the lease agreement in 2017,
Defendants gave Plaintiff a tour of and an opportunity to briefly inspect the
Property. Plaintiff is not an expert or professional in building construction,
safety hazards, health hazards, pests, mold, or other matters pertinent to
habitability that might exist but not be apparent during a brief, surface-level
inspection. During Plaintiff’s brief, non- expert, non- professional
inspection, she did not notice anything wrong with the property. Rather, she felt
confident and comfortable that the Premises would make a wonderful new home.
 
11. Finally, on or around June 1, 2020,
Defendants sent an email to Plaintiff regarding a major plumbing issue at the
Property.
 
[…]
 
17. On or around December 23, 2021, Plaintiff
notified Defendants of a new water leak inside the kitchen and living room at
the Property. At this point, the entire kitchen and living room were engulfed
in water after a few hours of constant rainfall. The following day, Defendants
issued a response denying knowledge of any existing leaks at the Property,
despite ignoring multiple notices by Plaintiff regarding the continuous water
leaks, and despite their original June of 2020 notice of major plumbing issues
at the Property.
 
[…]
 
19. A few days later, on or around December 31,
2021, Defendants’ maintenance personnel re-appeared to remove the water and
inspect the Property after a week of constant rain. Upon inspection,
Defendants’ maintenance personnel communicated to Plaintiff that the ceiling
tiles were completely wet and required replacement. Despite assuring Plaintiff
that the damaged wood and drywall on the ceiling would be replaced, the ceiling
at the Property remained in the same defective condition for the duration of
Plaintiff’s tenancy.
 
[…]
 
25. On or around August 7, 2022, Plaintiff once
again contacted Defendants via email regarding the cockroach infestation,
suspected mold exposure, and the deteriorated ceiling at the Property. In
response, Defendants continued to deny the existence of habitability issues and
attempted to shift blame onto Plaintiff. Furthermore, Defendants denied
receiving notification from DPH regarding the exposed ceiling at the Property,
despite that a copy of the courtesy notice issued by DPH was mailed directly to
Defendants principal address.
 
26. On or around August 9, 2022, Plaintiff
provided Defendant Ronak the complaint number issued by DPH outlining the
habitability issues at the Property. On or around August 10, 2022, Defendant
Ronak assured Plaintiff via email that a professional exterminator will inspect
the Property to solve the cockroach issues; however, an exterminator never
appeared at the Property.
 
[…]
 
91. On several occasions during the time that
Plaintiff lodged complaints about the habitability of the Premises, Defendant
Ronak represented that repairs would be made. 
 
92. Defendant Ronak also represented that the
Premises was safe for human habitation 
 
93. More specifically, on or around August 10,
2022, Defendant Ronak contacted Plaintiff via email to assure her that a
professional exterminator will inspect the Property to resolve the cockroach
infestation. However, the exterminator never appeared to inspect the Property. 
 
94. Defendant Ronak had no reason to believe the
Premises was at any time habitable as he failed to perform the required tests
and remedial work which would have undoubtedly been required. 
 
95. Even further, Defendant Ronak had no reason
to believe that a professional exterminator would appear at the Premises, as
Defendant Ronak never hired a professional extermination company to inspect the
Property. 
 
96. Defendant Ronak knew that the aforementioned
representations were false when he made them and knew that the representations
recklessly and without regard for its truth.
 
Thus, the Complaint clearly alleges several misrepresentations.  Defendants do not demonstrate that any
portions of the seventh cause of action are so bad that Defendants cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against them.
 
Defendants argue in connection with other causes of action that
Plaintiff conflates Defendants and makes allegations as to all of them.  However, Plaintiff does not demur to any other
cause of action on the basis of uncertainty. 

 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh
cause of action on the basis of uncertainty. 

 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                      
i.         
Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action – Negligence, Nuisance, and Breach of Statute
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action for negligence, nuisance, or breach of statute
against Defendants Summers and Kordestani because they are not landlords or
landowners of the subject property and therefore do not owe Plaintiff a duty
and could not breach Civil Code Section 1942.2 because they are not landlords
with the authority to demand or collect rent. 

 
Specifically, Defendants argue
that the allegations that each Defendant is “the property manager and or
landlord and or owner of the property” (Complaint ¶¶ 2-4) are contradicted by
the lease agreement attached to the complaint, which shows Defendant Kord
Enterprises II is the owner and “Frank Kordestani” (not Summers or Ronak
Kordestani) is the landlord.  Plaintiff
further contends that the grant deed demonstrates the property is owned by Kord
Enterprises II.  
 
However, the lease indicating
that Kord Enterprises II is the property owner and identifying the landlord as
“Frank Kordestani” does not mean that the other defendants are not also property
managers, landlords, and/or owners of the property, as alleged.
 
Defendants also argue that the
allegations are uncertain because most of them are made against all Defendants
instead of against Defendants individually. 
Defendants do not, however, demur to the fourth, fifth, or sixth causes
of action on the basis of uncertainty, and allegations against all Defendants
are not, in and of themselves indicative that Plaintiff fails to state a cause
of action.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
 
                                                    
ii.         
Eighth
Cause of Action – Constructive Eviction
 
Defendants argue that the
eighth cause of action for constructive eviction is uncertain[1]
because California only recognizes a cause of action for wrongful eviction, and
it is otherwise duplicative of the third cause of action for breach of the
implied warranty of quiet enjoyment.
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition
that Civil Code section 1940.2 prohibits a landlord to “(3) Use, or threaten to
use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of
conduct that interferes with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in
violation of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a
reasonable person.  Nothing in this
paragraph requires a tenant to be actually or constructively evicted in order
to obtain relief.”  (Opposition at p. 7.)  However, Plaintiff does not refute that there
is no cognizable cause of action for “Constructive Eviction.” 
 
Rather, “Constructive
Eviction” is an element of the cause of action for Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment.  Absent language to the
contrary, “every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and
enjoyment.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset
Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299-1300.)  The covenant is binding on successors in
interest.  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank
Nat’l Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291.)  
 
“To be actionable, the
landlords act or omission must substantially interfere with a tenants right to
use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.”  (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.)  “The
perpetrator of the interference with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment need not be
the landlord personally. There may be an actionable breach where the
interference is caused by a neighbor or tenant claiming under the landlord.”  (Id. at p. 590.)  “This covenant is breached upon actual or
constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Ibid.)  “Any interference by the landlord that
deprives the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises or renders the
premises unfit for the purposes for which they are let amounts to a
constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and vacates within a reasonable
time.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations
that Defendants’ inactions constructively evicted Plaintiff from her home do
not support an independent cause of action.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
 
                                                  
iii.         
Seventh
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
Plaintiff only alleges the seventh cause of action against Defendant
Ronak.  (See Complaint.)
 
The elements for fraudulent misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was
false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
alleges that on December 24, 2021, “Defendants” denied prior water issues at
the property, contradicting the June 1, 2020 email indicating the
building had plumbing issues.  (Complaint
¶¶ 11, 17.)  On December 31, 2021,
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ maintenance worker assured Plaintiff the wet
ceiling tiles would be replaced, yet they were not replaced during Plaintiff’s
tenancy.  (Id. ¶ 19.)  On August 7, 2022, Defendants denied
Plaintiff’s unit had habitability issues and denied receiving notification from
DPH, even though DPH sent Plaintiff a courtesy copy of the notice they sent
Defendants.  (Id. ¶ 25.)  On August 10, 2022, Defendant Ronak emailed
Plaintiff, indicating an exterminator would be by to treat the infestation
issue, but no exterminator ever came.  (Id.
¶¶ 26, 93.)  Defendant Ronak also
represented that the premises were habitable and that repairs would be
made.  (Id. ¶¶ 91-91.)
 
However, with regard to
reliance and causation, Plaintiff merely alleges:
 
97. Defendant Ronak intended that Plaintiff rely
on the representations. 
 
98. Plaintiff relied reasonably on the
representations and was damaged. The reliance was reasonable as the parties
were in privity of contract and the requirements of the laws of the state. 
 
99. Defendant Ronak was the substantial factor
and the actual and proximate cause of the injuries and damages suffered by
Plaintiff
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 97-99.)  
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff fails to allege reliance and causation with requisite particularity
to withstand demurrer.  As such, the Court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the seventh cause of action. 

 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendants move to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations
of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements
set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks punitive damages as to Defendant Ronak
only.  (Complaint at Prayer ¶ 8.)  As discussed above, Plaintiff does not plead reliance
with requisite specificity to state a claim for Fraudulent Misrepresentation
against Ronak, and therefore, Plaintiff cannot premise the request for punitive
damages on Defendant Ronak’s allegedly fraudulent conduct.  
 
However, Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is proper if the
allegations demonstrate oppression and/or malice.  Here, Plaintiff also alleges Defendant Ronak
repeatedly consciously disregarded serious water intrusions and pest
infestations at the property, by either ignoring Plaintiff’s complaints or
making false promises to repair and remediate the conditions, leaving Plaintiff
with a large cockroach infestation, an exposed, water-damaged ceiling, and mold
levels ten times greater than is acceptable. 
Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations are generally sufficient to allege
oppression and/or malice by Defendant Ronak.
 
Therefore, Defendants’ request to strike the references to and request
for punitive damages is denied.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, although Plaintiff requests leave to amend, Plaintiff has
not identified any specific allegations that could be added to the Complaint to
cure the identified deficiencies.  Therefore,
Plaintiff has not met her burden of demonstrating that leave to amend is
proper.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrers to
the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action, and sustains without leave to
amend Defendants’ demurrers to the seventh and eighth causes of action.    
 
The Court also denies Defendants’ Motion to Strike references to and
requests for punitive damages.   
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the
Complaint on or before April 18, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  March 28, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


