  Case Number:  20SMCV00776    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 28, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV00776




MOTION


Motion to Seal




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants, Cross-Complainants, and Plaintiffs California
  Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield of California and Blue Shield of
  California Life and Health Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Defendants
and Cross-Complainants California Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield of
California and Blue Shield of California Life and Health Insurance Company
(“Blue Shield”) moves to seal portions of Exhibits 3, 4, and 35 containing or
referencing Blue Shield’s confidential and proprietary payment methodology and fee
schedule information with regard to the CPT codes at issue.  Blue Shield’s motion is unopposed.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public, pursuant to a
potent “open court” policy undergirded by the First Amendment and favoring the
public nature of court proceedings.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(c); see¿NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1999)¿20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.)¿ Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery documents,
and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the
parties; filing under seal requires a court order.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.551(a); see¿H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 888.)¿
 
A sealing order must be sought by
means of a motion (or application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points
and authorities, as well as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient
to justify the mandatory findings required to support a sealing order.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rules 2.550(d) & 2.551(b).)¿ The proponent of the sealing
order must also conditionally lodge the¿unredacted¿matter to be sealed with the
court.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4).)¿
 
To grant a motion to seal, a trial
court must expressly find that: (1) an overriding interest exists that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding interest
supports sealing the records; (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no¿less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550 (d).) “If
the trial court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and
cannot support sealing.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see also In re Marriage of Tamir (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 1068, 1087 [“express findings must be made to seal records”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Blue Shield
seeks to redact and seal its confidential and proprietary payment methodology
and fee schedule information included in Exhibits 3, 4, and 35 that Blue Shield
submitted in opposition to Plaintiff, Cross-Defendant, and Defendant Advanced
Orthopedic Center, Inc.’s (“AOC”) motion to tax costs.  
 
            The Court
finds that Blue Shield’s overriding interest in protecting its confidential and
proprietary payment methodology and fee schedule information overrides the
public’s right of access to that information and supports sealing the
record.  If this unredacted information
is unsealed, Blue Shield’s interest in protecting its confidential and
proprietary information will be prejudiced. 
Moreover, Blue Shield’s request is narrowly tailored, as the balance of
the documents are unsealed. Blue Shield only seeks to seal Exhibit 3, which
consists of excerpts of the deposition of Blue Shield’s person most knowledgeable
discussing Blue Shield’s payment methodology (which also includes identifying
patient information), and to redact and seal only the fee information itself from
Exhibits 4 and 35.  There are no less restrictive
means to protect Blue Shield’s overriding interest, as Blue Shield has only
redacted its payment methodology and fee information from the documents at
issue.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants Blue Shield’s unopposed request to redact and seal from the
public record its confidential and proprietary payment methodology and fee
schedule information from Exhibits 3, 4, and 35 submitted in opposition to
AOC’s motion to tax costs.  
 
            Blue Shield
to give notice of the Court’s ruling  and
provide proof of service of the same.
 
 
DATED: 
March 28, 2023                                          ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court