

 
            This
action arises from a dispute involving a $1.5 billion construction renovation
of the Hyatt Regency Century Plaza Hotel in Century City (Project). Plaintiff
Control Air Enterprises, LLC was the HVAC subcontractor for the Project and claims
it is owed millions of dollars for the labor and materials it furnished to
Defendant Webcor Construction, L.P (Webcor), the general contractor on the
Project. Plaintiff Control Air Enterprises also alleges it is owed money for
labor and materials provided to Defendant Next Century Partners, LLC (NCP),
owner of the Hyatt Regency Century
Plaza Hotel. On August 14, 2022, Plaintiff Control Air Enterprises, LLC
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Webcor and NCP. 
 
            On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff
Control Air filed a form Amendment to Complaint (Fictious/Incorrect Name),
replacing “Doe 1” with Next Century Partners Mezzanine Borrower LP (NCPMB).
 
            On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint against Defendants Webcor, NCP, and NCPMB, alleging
causes of action for 1) Breach Of NCP Contract; (2) Fraud-Nondisclosure; (3)
Breach Of Hotel Subcontract; (4) Breach Of Tower Subcontract; (5) Fraud In The
Inducement (Hotel SCO and Tower SCO); (6) Quantum Meruit; (7) Foreclosure Of
Mechanic’s Lien (Hotel); (8) Foreclosure Of Mechanic’s Lien (Towers); (9)
Disgorgement For Violation Of Contractor Licensing Laws; and (10) Declaratory
Relief regarding Violation Of Contractor Licensing Laws. 
 
On June 26, 2023, Defendant Webcor, NCP,
and NCPMB (Defendants) each filed a separate demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint.
Plaintiff filed oppositions to each demurrer. 
 
            Defendant Webcor’s demurrer is sustained with leave as to
the fifth cause of action and sustained without leave to amend as to the ninth
and tenth causes of action. Defendant NCP’s demurrer is overruled as to the first
cause of action. Defendant NCPMB’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as
to first, second, sixth, seventh and
eighth causes of action.
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
1.  Webcor Construction, L.P.’s
Demurrer to the Fifth, Ninth, and Tenth
Causes of Action.
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
in the Inducement
            
            Defendant
Webcor argues the fifth cause of action for fraud in the inducement is not pled
with the specificity required for a fraud cause of action.
 
            Promissory fraud or false promise “
‘is a subspecies of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud.’ [Citations.]” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973–974.) “An action for promissory fraud may lie where a defendant fraudulently
induces the plaintiff to enter into a contract.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
 
The elements of promissory fraud “are: (1) a promise
made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the
existence of the intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3)
intent to deceive or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable
reliance by the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise;
and (6) resulting damage to the promise[e].” (Behnke v. State Farm General
Ins. Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1453.) 
 
As with any other form of fraud, each element of a
promissory fraud claim must be alleged with particularity. (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1059–1060.) “A plaintiff's burden in asserting a
fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a case, the
plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly
fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’ [Citation.]” (Lazar v.
Superior Court, supra, 12 Cal.4th at 645.)
 
            Here, the SAC alleges that Webcor
“promised not to assert any backcharges against CAE relating to any work
performed prior to the execution of the Hotel SCO and Tower SCO” but Webcor had
no intention of performing this promise. (SAC ¶ 68.) 
 
            Defendant Webcor argues these allegations
lack the required level of specificity to state a claim for fraud. 
 
            In opposition Plaintiff argues that
the fraudulent promises are set forth in the written Subcontract Change Orders
(SCO): SCO 020 and 040. Plaintiff claims that because the representation is
within a written contract signed by the Vice President of Webcor, the attached
exhibit satisfies the fraud particularly requirements. 
 
            Based on Plaintiff’s reliance on
these contract provisions in its opposition, Plaintiff’s promissory fraud claim
is essentially a restatement of the breach of contract claim with the added
allegation of Webcor’s absence of any intent to perform. However, as noted in
Webcor’s reply, these SCO provisions cannot form the basis of the false promise
regarding backcharges.
 
The
provisions of SCO 020 and 040 relied upon and cited by Plaintiff in its
opposition each state: 
 
“B.
Subcontractor represents and warrants to Contractor that as of the date of
execution of this SCO, Subcontractor is not aware of any defective or
non-conforming work in, on, at or about the Hotel, Retail and Garage (Permit 1
& Permit 2) other than those conditions and matters specified in this SCO.
Contractor waives, releases, and agrees not to assert claims against any
Subcontractor enrolled in the OCIP for correction of defective or
non-conforming work (i) in, on at or about the Hotel, Retail and Garage
(Permit 1 & Permit 2) which has otherwise achieved Substantial Completion
as of the date of execution of this SCO…” (SAC, Ex. D, p. 92, Ex. E, p. 129
[emphasis added].) 
 
Thus,
these provisions, by their own terms, pertains to “defective or non-conforming
work” and not “backcharges.” In contrast, both SCO 040 and SCO 020 expressly provide
for the issue of backcharges in a separate provision:
 
“C.
Contractor and Subcontractor agree that this change order does not resolve, and
Contractor’s and Owner’s reserved rights and claims include but are not limited
to, the following with respect to the above-referenced Subcontract and
corresponding scope of work on the Project: 
1.
Costs relating to trade damage or other backcharges caused by or
occurring in connection with the performance of Subcontractor’s completion of
its scope of work on the Project after the date of execution of this SCO.”
(SAC, Ex. D, p. 92, Ex. E, p. 129 [emphasis added].)
 
            Based on the language of the SCOs,
Plaintiff, in its opposition, cannot rely on the cited provisions in SCO 020
and SCO 040 as the basis of the fraudulent promise. As result, the pleading does
not contain the requisite specificity because it fails to allege with specific
the facts the circumstances of the fraudulent promise. The demurrer to this
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
            
            Disgorgement For Violation of
Contractor Licensing Laws
 
            Defendant
Webcor also demurs to the ninth cause of action for Disgorgement for Violation
of Contractor Licensing Laws under Business and
Professions Code section 7031, subdivision (b), on the grounds that this
claim fails because Plaintiff lacks standing to assert a claim for disgorgement.

 
            In its demurrer, Defendant Webcor
argues Plaintiff cannot bring this claim because Plaintiff is not a “a person
utilizing services of an unlicensed contractor” and hence cannot bring an
action under the statute, and the backcharges asserted are not “compensation
paid to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or contract,” and
are therefore not recoverable under the statute.
 
            The SAC alleges that Defendant
Webcor was not duly licensed during the tenure of the Project and that this
lack of proper licensure prevents Webcor from receiving compensation for its
work on the Project pursuant to Business and Profession Code section 7031. (SAC
¶¶ 91, 94.) 
 
            Business and Professions section
7031, subdivision (b), states: “a
person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed contractor may bring an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this state to recover all
compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or
contract.”
 
            “Section
7031 is part of the Contractors State License Law (§ 7000 et seq.). It imposes
strict and harsh penalties for a contractor's failure to maintain proper
licensure. Among other things, the [Contractors State License Law] states a
general rule that, regardless of the merits of the claim, a contractor may not
maintain any action, legal or equitable, to recover compensation for “the
performance of any act or contract” unless he or she was duly licensed “at all
times during the performance of that act or contract.” (Kim v. TWA Construction,
Inc. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 808, 823 [citing Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031,
subd. (a)].)
 
            Pursuant to Business and Professions
Code section 7031, a “contractor” is synonymous with “builder”, and courts have
construed the term “contractor” to apply only to those persons or entities that
either: (1) actually perform construction services (Contractors Labor Pool,
Inc. v. Westway Contractors, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 152, 165); (2.)
“supervise the performance of construction services” (Contractors Labor
Pool, Inc. v. Westway Contractors, Inc., supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 165; WSS
Industrial Construction, Inc. v. Great West Contractors, Inc. (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 581, 593 [“overseeing” construction work]); or (3.) agree by
contract to be “solely responsible” for construction services (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 935–936, 939–940). Thus, in the last two
scenarios, a license is required even if the construction work is actually
performed by someone else. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7026 [reaching work “by or
through others”]; Vallejo Development, supra, 24 Cal.App.4th at
p. 941.)
 
            Based on the foregoing legal
authority, Plaintiff – relying on Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck
Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929 – is correct that the statute
applies even where Defendant Webcor did not perform the construction work at
issue in the pleadings. 
 
However, in this case, the SAC allegations show that
Webcor hired Plaintiff to perform construction work and Plaintiff is
seeking compensation for its construction work. That is, the
essential elements of the statute have not been met. The statute requires a
plaintiff “who utilizes the services of an unlicensed contractor.” (SG
Blocks, Inc. v. Hola Community Partners (2021) 521 F.Supp.3d 881, 899
[persons protected under the Bus. and Prof. Code § 7031 are those who “hire[] a
contractor to perform contracting work”].) The statute also requires that
person must have paid compensation to the “contractor” in order to recover it.
(See Eisenberg Vill. of Los Angeles Jewish Home for the Aging v. Suffolk
Constr. Co., Inc. (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 1201, 1207 [deterrence under Bus.
and Prof. Code § 7031 is realized by requiring violators “to disgorge
compensation already paid.”].)
 
Importantly,
here the SAC alleges that Owner Defendants hired Defendant Webcor as the
general contractor charged with designing and building the Project. (SAC ¶ 6.)
Webcor then hired Plaintiff to perform the HVAC scope of work on the Project
pursuant to the Hotel Subcontract and the Tower Subcontract. (SAC ¶ 7.)
 
There
is no allegation that Plaintiff hired or utilized Defendant
Webcor to perform contractor services. Plaintiff is attempting to assert this
disgorgement statute against Webcor in its role as subcontractor. Plaintiff’s
argument is not consistent with the purpose of the statute. The purpose of the
statute is to protect consumers who obtain construction services from
unlicensed contractors. As noted above, Webcor hired Plaintiff for Plaintiff’s
professional construction services. Webcor’s licensing statues is not at issue
here where it was not retained to perform work for Plaintiff. That is,
Plaintiff did not hire Defendant Webcor to perform any contracting work for
Plaintiff. (See Opp. 6:19-28.)
 
Plaintiff
cites Kim v. TWA Construction, Inc. (2023) 78 Cal.App.5th 808, wherein
the court acknowledged that our Supreme Court has not addressed every scenario
under which compensation could be disgorged under the licensing laws. “The
California Supreme Court has not directly addressed the factual situation
presented here as applied to section 7031(a), where a licensed general
contractor seeks compensation from an owner for work performed by an unlicensed
subcontractor.” (Kim v. TWA Construction, Inc., supra, 78 Cal. App. 5th at
824.)
 
This
case is not helpful to Plaintiff’s position as here; Plaintiff seeks
compensation from the general contractor and owner for services and work
provided by Plaintiff. The disgorgement statute simply does not apply to the
facts and circumstances here. 
 
Webcor’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.[1]

 
Declaratory
Relief regarding the Violation of Contractor Licensing Law
 
Defendant
Webcor argues that this tenth cause of action for declaratory relief is
derivative of the ninth cause of action and, therefore, fails for the same
reasons. 
 
The
tenth cause of action in the SAC alleges there is an “actual controversy”
regarding Webcor’s licensure “during the course of performance on the Project”
and seeks a “declaration relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties and a determination of the issue of WEBCOR’s licensure by
this Court.” (SAC ¶¶ 97-98.) 
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 1060's language “appears
to allow for an extremely broad scope of an action for declaratory relief” (Otay
Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 562), “an
actual controversy that is currently active is required for such relief to be
issued, and both standing and ripeness are appropriate criteria in that
determination. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 563.) “One cannot analyze
requested declaratory relief without evaluating the nature of the rights and
duties that plaintiff is asserting, which must follow some recognized or
cognizable legal theories that are related to subjects and requests for relief
that are properly before the court.” (Ibid.)
 
Here,
where the Plaintiff cannot state a claim under Business and Professions Code
section 7031 against Webcor, the same statutory violation cannot form the
basis for an actual controversy. (See Ball
v. FleetBoston Financial Corp.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 794, 800 [“Where a trial court has concluded the
plaintiff did not state sufficient facts to support a statutory claim and
therefore sustained a demurrer as to that claim, a demurrer is also properly
sustained as to a claim for declaratory relief which is ‘wholly derivative’ of
the statutory claim”].) 
 
Webcor’s demurrer to the tenth cause of action is also
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
2.  Next Century Partners, LLC’s
Demurrer to the First Cause of Action
 
            Defendant NCP demurs to
the first cause of action on the grounds that the SAC fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a claim for a breach of the NCP Agreement.  
 
            The first cause of action for a breach of contract arises
from a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Defendant NCP and Plaintiff Control
Air, dated May 8, 2017 (NCP Agreement or the MOU). (SAC ¶¶ 29, 48.) The NCP
Agreement provided that Plaintiff would be paid by Owner Defendants for
additional costs incurred by Plaintiff in performing its HVAC construction
services as a result of changes in the design of the Project. (SAC ¶ 30.) The
SAC then alleges NCP ordered Webcor to enter into two new subcontracts with Plaintiff:
the Hotel Subcontract and Tower Subcontract (jointly Subcontract Change Orders (SCOs)).
(SAC ¶¶ 31-34.)
Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges that “Owner Defendants were experiencing
financial difficulties and were either unable or refused to pay WEBCOR and its
subcontractors (including [Plaintiff]) the amounts they earned for their work
on the Project.” (SAC ¶ 35; see also SAC ¶¶ 47-50.) 
 
            In its
demurrer, NCP argues that Plaintiff has not stated a breach of contract because
the Hotel Subcontract and Tower Subcontract with Webcor superseded
the NCP Agreement. NCP acknowledges that this fact was originally disputed
by Plaintiff but “Webcor, NCP and Control Air successfully negotiated a
resolution in January 2022 covering all then-known disputes concerning the
MOU.” (Dem. 3:18-20.) According to NCP, this so-called resolution is contained
in Subcontractor Change Orders (SCOs) 020 and 040, and Owner Change Order (OCO)
152. (Dem. 3:23-4:2.)
 
            As cited in the demurrer, the SCOs between Webcor and Plaintiff
state in relevant part:
 
“9.
All RFI’s, Bulletins, Submittals, CCD’s, Contract Documents, MOU related
issues, etc. issued prior to this date are deemed included and no change orders
will be valid — this settlement includes ALL known items by and between both
Subcontractor and Contractor, as of today. This agreement settles all MOU
conflicts with the subcontract / claims. The subcontract will govern moving
forward.” (SAC, Exs. D, E.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff Control Air
contends that it is alleging a breach of the NCP Agreement and seeking damages
from NCP, not a breach of the SCO with Webcor. Plaintiff argues that NCP’s
demurrer mischaracterizes Plaintiff’s claim as a breach of the two Subcontract
Change Orders. The Subcontract Change Orders, Plaintiff maintains, are separate
and independent from the NCP Agreement.
 
The Court concludes that Plaintiff misconceives
the demurrer’s argument, which is that Plaintiff cannot state a breach of the NCP
Agreement because of the terms set forth in the SCOs. This requires that the
Court to interpret the terms of the SCO.  
 
Here, Plaintiff
disputes that the SCO’s acts a waiver and release of its claims against NCP
arising from the NCP Agreement. Plaintiff also argues the SCOs could not act as
a waiver/release because “a contractor cannot waive or release its lien rights
against a project owner unless that contractor executes a statutory release as
required under Civil Code section 8122.” (Opp. 4:4-5.)[2]
 
In attempting to reconcile the language
in the NCP Agreement, the parties’ intent, and the legal effect of the
subsequent SCOs, the Court finds there exists ambiguities as to the various
contract interpretations that cannot be resolved on demurrer. 
 
“‘[W]here an ambiguous contract is the
basis of an action, it is proper, if not essential, for a plaintiff to allege
its own construction of the agreement. So long as the pleading does not place a
clearly erroneous construction upon the provisions of the contract, in passing
upon the sufficiency of the complaint, we must accept as correct plaintiff's
allegations as to the meaning of the agreement.’ ” (Aragon-Haas v. Family
Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.) “Where a
complaint is based on a written contract which it sets out in full, a general
demurrer to the complaint admits not only the contents of the instrument but
also any pleaded meaning to which the instrument is reasonably susceptible.
[Citation.] While plaintiff's interpretation of the contract ultimately may
prove invalid, it was improper to resolve the issue against her solely on her
own pleading. ‘In ruling on a demurrer, the likelihood that the pleader will be
able to prove his allegations is not the question.’ ” (Id. at 239.)
 
            Here,
both parties claim different intents as to the purpose of the relevant
provisions. Moreover, the language of the SCOs are not so clear and unambiguous
that the Court may make a determination as a matter of law as to its legal
effect. Finally, the SCOs at issue here also state: “This SCO is subject to and
conditioned upon execution of OCO 152 by Owner and Contractor, along with
approval thereof by Owner’s Lender within 30 days, otherwise this SCO shall be
null and void.” The OCO 152 is not attached to the pleadings or subject to
judicial notice. Thus, the Court lacks the full scope of the agreements that
purport to constitute the settlement of the NCP Agreement, hindering its
ability to make a determination on interpretation.        
 
            Based on the foregoing legal authority,
Plaintiff’s allegations at the pleading stage are sufficient to state a claim.
While Defendant NCP may dispute the interpretation and legal effect of these
contracts, Plaintiff’s allegations and interpretation, at this stage of litigation,
are sufficient to overcome the demurrer.
 
            NCP’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of the NCP contract is
overruled. 
 
3.
 Next Century Partners Mezzanine
Borrower, LLC’s Demurrer to the First, Second, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action
 
            Defendant Next
Century Partners Mezzanine Borrower, LLC (NCPMB) demurs to the first, second,
sixth, seventh and eighth causes of action on the grounds that the SAC does not
allege any specific facts about NCPMB’s purported involvement in the wrongdoing
arising from the renovation project. As the demurrer notes, only two paragraphs
specifically identify NCPMB. (Dem., 3:19-26 [citing FAC ¶¶ 3, 16].)[3]
 
            Further, Defendant NCPMB contends
that the alter ego allegations are insufficient to attach liability onto NCPMB
from other defendants’ conduct. Defendant NCPMB argues Plaintiff simply
recites several common boilerplate factors in support of alter ego liability.
(SAC ¶¶ 18-20.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the SAC makes approximately 83 references to NCPMB, and discusses its
wrongdoing in multiple paragraphs and causes of action, as one of the “Owner
Defendants,” explaining that “Owner Defendants” is defined as “NCP and NCPMB.”
(SAC ¶ 3).
 
            The alter ego allegations are insufficient.

 
“Ordinarily
a corporation is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from its
stockholders, officers and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities
and obligations. [Citation.] The same is true of a limited liability company
(LLC) and its members and managers. [Citations.] [¶] That legal separation may
be disregarded by the courts ‘when [a corporation or LLC] is used [by one or
more individuals] to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish
some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.’ ” (Curci Investments, LLC v.
Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 220-221; see Sonora Diamond Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 539.) 
 
“Before the
alter ego doctrine will be invoked in California, two conditions generally must
be met. [¶] ‘First, there must be such a unity of interest and ownership
between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities
of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there
must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of
the corporation alone.’ [Citation.] While courts have developed a list of
factors that may be analyzed in making these determinations, ‘[t]here is no
litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be pierced; rather the
result will depend on the circumstances of each particular case.’ ” (Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 221; see Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300; Sonora Diamond Corp.
v. Superior Court, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 538.)
 
In general,
the conditions in which a court may disregard the structure of a limited
liability company and consider it the alter ego of a member “necessarily vary
according to the circumstances in each case inasmuch as the [alter ego]
doctrine is essentially an equitable one and for that reason is particularly
within the province of the trial court.” (Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185
Cal. App. 4th 799, 811.)
 
Here, the
SAC alleges in a conclusory manner that Owner Defendants “are the alter ego of one another,
such that they each controlled, dominated, managed, and operated the other and
intermingled substantial assets for the benefit of the Owner Defendants by
treating each other as a mere shell, in an attempt to conceal the identity of
the responsible parties and in order to evade liability and obligations owed to
creditors.” (SAC ¶ 20; see also SAC 18-21.) However, there are no specific
factual allegations of unity of interest, such as allegations
demonstrating commingling of funds, identical equitable ownership in the two
entities, use of the same offices and employees, failure to maintain corporate minutes
and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other. (Zoran Corp.
v. Chen, supra, 185 Cal. App. 4th at 811-12 [providing non-exhaustive
list of factors].)
 
NCPMB’s
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Webcor’s demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action, and sustained without
leave to amend as to the ninth and tenth causes of action. Defendant NCP’s
demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. Defendant NCPMB’s demurrer
is sustained as to first, second,
sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action with leave to amend. The
amended complaint shall be served and filed on or before October 19, 2023.
 


