

Hearing Date:             December
12, 2024
Case
Name:                Markowitz v. Markowitz
Case
No.:                    22STCV31919
[Consolidated with 23STCV14274]
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment

Moving
Party:             Defendant Joseph
Raymond Markowitz
Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs Philip Markowitz and Saul
Markowitz

 
Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion for Summary Judgment is granted. 
 

 
This is a malicious
prosecution action. The allegation in the Complaints arise from the trial
court’s termination of the Underlying Action entitled In re The David and
Rose Markowitz 1998 Trust, Dated June 2, 1998 (Case No. 17STPB08890). The
Complaints contain a single cause of action for malicious prosecution.  
 
Defendant Joseph
Raymond Markowitz (Joseph or Defendant) now moves for summary judgment as to
both consolidated Complaints. Plaintiffs Philip Markowitz and Saul Markowitz
(Plaintiffs) filed an opposition. 
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for
summary judgment on the two consolidated Complaints on the grounds that the sole
cause of action for malicious prosecution is without merit because the termination
of the underlying action was based on statute of limitations and, therefore, does
not constitute a “favorable termination.” 
 
            To
prevail on a claim for malicious prosecution, “[a] plaintiff must plead and
prove three elements to establish the tort of malicious prosecution: a lawsuit
‘(1) was commenced by or at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a
legal termination favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable
cause; and (3) was initiated with malice.’ [Citation.]” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 861, 872–873.)
 
 Here, Defendant Joseph argues that Plaintiffs
cannot prevail on a malicious prosecution claim because the underlying action
did not terminate in Plaintiffs favor. 
 
To determine
“whether there was a favorable termination” for purposes of malicious
prosecution, courts “look at the judgment as a whole in the prior action....” (Sagonowsky
v. More (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 122, 129.) “It is not essential to
maintenance of an action for malicious prosecution that the prior proceeding
was favorably terminated following trial on the merits.” (Lackner v. LaCroix (1979) 25 Cal.3d 747, 750 (Lackner).)
Rather, “[i]n order for the termination of a lawsuit to be considered favorable
to the malicious prosecution plaintiff, the termination must reflect the merits
of the action and the plaintiff's innocence of the misconduct alleged in the
lawsuit.” (Pender v. Radin (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1814.) 


Here, Defendant’s
evidence shows that on October 3, 2017, Defendant Joseph filed a verified
petition in the underlying probate action in the Superior Court of California,
County of Los Angeles (Case No. 17STPB08890), against his brothers Philip
Markowitz (Plaintiff Philip) and Saul Markowitz (Plaintiff Saul) (hereinafter,
the “Underlying Action”). (DSS 1.) 
 
On January 23,
2018, Defendant Joseph filed a verified first amended petition (FAP) in the
Underlying Action seeking to (1) quiet title against Saul’s claims of ownership
of the Burbank Property; (2) compel Plaintiff Saul to return unspecified cash,
stocks, bonds, and other personal property; (3) compel Plaintiff Philip to
deliver unspecified cash, stocks, bonds, and other personal property; and (4)
obtain reimbursement for attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with
the FAP. (DSS 2.) The trial court in the Underlying Action overruled Plaintiffs
Saul and Philip’s demurrers to the FAP. (DSS 3.)
 
On April 11, 2018,
Defendant Joseph filed a verified second amended petition (SAP) in the
Underlying Action. (DSS 4.) Plaintiffs Saul and Philip filed demurrers, arguing
that Defendant’s Joseph’s claims for conversion and restitution were
time-barred because of the three-year statute of limitations. (DSS 5.) The
trial court in the Underlying Action sustained the demurrers to the SAP with
leave to amend to allow Defendant Joseph an opportunity to allege facts to
avoid the statute of limitations. (DSS 6.) Specifically, the trial court in the
Underlying Action concluded that if Defendant Joseph could demonstrate that his
claims were not time-barred and prevailed in the Underlying Action, the Trusts
at issue would be funded. (DSS 7.)
 
On September 18,
2018, Defendant Joseph filed the operative verified third amended petition
(TAP). (DSS 8.) Along with their demurrers to the TAP, Plaintiffs Saul and
Philip each filed Motions for Sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7. (DSS 9.) On February 7, 2019, the trial court in the Underlying
Action overruled the demurrer but granted Plaintiffs Saul and Philip’s motions
for terminating and monetary sanctions. (DSS 10.) The trial court awarded
$5,685 to Plaintiff Philip and $6,460 to Plaintiff Saul as reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs for bringing the motions. (DSS 11.)
 
These materials
facts are undisputed. The only disputed fact is Defendant’s material fact that
“trial court in the Underlying Action acknowledged that without the allegations
of delayed discovery, Joseph’s entire case fails based on the three-year statute
of limitations.” (DSS 12.)  
 
A “ ‘favorable’
termination does not occur merely because a party complained against has
prevailed in an underlying action.... If the termination does not relate to the
merits—reflecting on neither innocence of nor responsibility for the alleged
misconduct—the termination is not favorable in the sense it would support a
subsequent action for malicious prosecution.” (Lackner, supra, 25 Cal.3d
at p. 751.) Thus, a “technical or procedural [termination] as distinguished
from a substantive termination” will not support a claim for malicious
prosecution. (Ibid.)


In Casa
Herrera, Inc. v. Beydoun (2004) 32 Cal.4th 336, the California Supreme
Court specifically identified a dismissal based on statute of limitations
grounds as technical termination not on the merits. (Id. at p. 342
[citing Lackner, supra, 25 Cal.3d at pp. 751-752].)
 
            Based
the above case authority, a termination based on the statute of limitations
cannot constitute a favorable termination. Plaintiffs do not dispute this
position. 
 
Here, admittedly, the
facts are somewhat more complicated than a clear dismissal based on the statute
of limitations. That is, the Underlying Action was not the trial court’s
determination on demurrer that the claims were barred by the statute of
limitations. Rather, the trial court determined pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 that Defendant’s TAP contained untrue allegations and
must be dismissed. (DSS 12-14.) This circumastance, however, does not substantively
change the fact that the termination was based on the statute of limitations. 
 
             
 
Specifically, in
response to the trial court’s concerns and “admonition that the TAP specify why
and how the discovery rule postponed the accrual date for Joseph’s section 850
claim,” Defendant Joseph alleged that he “discovered or
reasonably could have discovered that Rose had not acted to fully segregate her
Trust assets in the Survivor's 'A' Trust from the Trust funds of David
Markowitz in his irrevocable Decedent's 'B' & 'C' Trusts in or about May,
2018 when the parties received the subpoenaed records of the Albience Law
Firm.” (DSS 14 [Ex. B, Court of Appeal Opinion, dated August 25, 2021, p.
13]; see also DSS 12 [Ex. A, Trial Court Order, p. 3].) In this ruling, the
trial court acknowledged the Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice of a
January 6, 2014 affidavit to Joseph’s petition in the Initial Probate Action
filed in November 2014 -- which suggested Joseph’s delayed discovery
allegations in the TAP were false -- but found “on a demurrer, however, the
Court cannot make such an inference.” (DSS 12 [Ex. A, Trial Court Order, p. 4].)
Accordingly, the court in the Underlying Action overruled the demurrers
“insofar as they are based upon the expiration of the limitations period.” (DSS
12 [Ex. A, Trial Court Order, p. 4].)
 
Crucially, however,
the trial court also had before it a motion for sanctions pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.7. This motion requested that the trial court in
the Underlying Action “dismiss this action based on Petitioner’s [Joseph’s] allegations
that ‘[t]he first time Petitioner discovered or reasonably could have
discovered that Rose had not acted to fully segregate her Trust assets in the
Survivor's 'A' Trust from the Trust funds of David Markowitz in his irrevocable
Decedent's 'B' & 'C' Trusts was in or about May, 2018 when the parties
received the subpoenaed records of the Albience Law Firm….’” DSS 12 [Ex. A,
Trial Court Order, p. 5-6].) The trial court determined that Joseph’s allegation
of delayed discovery in the TAP was demonstrably false. This was based, in
part, on evidence submitted in support of the section 128.7 sanctions motion --
specifically, Rose’s January 6, 2014 declaration filed with Joseph’s petition
in the Initial Probate Action filed in November 2014 and deposition testimony
in the case Saul Markowitz v. Joseph Markowitz, et al. LASC Case No.
BC560982 proceeding. (DSS 12 [Ex. A, Trial Court Order, p. 6-7]; see also DSS  13-14 [Ex. B, Court of Appeal Opinion, dated
August 25, 2021, p. 13].)
 
The opposition
argues that the trial court also identified another allegation in the TAP as
false, and this allegation goes to the merits of the Defendant’s case in the
Underlying Action. (Opp., 12:8-26.) Whether this allegation does go to the
merits of the case or not, the trial court only considered the falsity of this allegation
in the context of its statute of limitations analysis; that is, finding this allegation
was also untrue only bolstered the trial court’s determination that the delayed
discovery allegations were false such that the TAP must be dismissed as
time barred. (DSS 12 [Ex. A, Trial Court Order, pp. 7:14 - 8:5.) Thus, the Underlying
Action was dismissed based on the trial court’s determination that Defendant had
alleged false facts in the TAP to circumvent the statute of limitations. 
 
The trial court in
the Underlying Action found that Joseph’s false statements were egregious and
dismissed his case. This Court takes a dim view of Joseph’s perjurious testimony.
Joseph’s TAP was factually and legally frivolous, but it does not follow that
its dismissal was a ruling on the merits. 

 
            The
legal analysis in the context of a motion for terminating sanctions is
instructive in determining how to analyze the termination based on section
128.7.  There is no bright light rule as
to whether dismissal of an action resulting from terminating sanctions meets
the requirement of a favorable termination reflecting on the merits of the
action. Although a few cases have examined the issue, none is dispositive. 
 
For example, in Zeavin
v. Lee (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 766, the underlying action was dismissed
because the plaintiff refused to answer discovery or cooperate with her lawyer.
The defendant in that case, Zeavin, then sued Lee, the attorney for the
underlying plaintiff, for malicious prosecution. The court held dismissal of
the first action for failure to respond to discovery was not a favorable
termination because it did not reflect the innocence of Zeavin or the lack of
merit of the underlying action. (Id. at p. 771.)
 
Similarly, in Pattiz
v. Minye (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 822, the court affirmed summary
judgment in favor of three malicious prosecution defendants—Minye and her two
attorneys from the underlying action. (Pattiz, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at
p. 824.) The underlying action was dismissed as a sanction for discovery
abuses, namely Minye's incomplete and disorderly production of documents and
the failure of Minye's daughter to appear for a deposition; Minye herself
appeared for her deposition and participated in the document production,
however deficient. (Id. at p. 825.) The Pattiz court held that
the undisputed facts did not support an inference that the dismissal of the
underlying case reflected on the merits because “Minye did not abandon the
action or refuse to cooperate in discovery. Moreover, it would be unfair to
ascribe a lack of cooperation by Minye to her daughter's act of refusing
further deposition due to illness.” (Id. at pp. 827–828, 71 Cal.Rptr.2d
802.) 
 
The Pattiz
court continued: “We disagree that the municipal court expressly found or
reasonably inferred that Minye destroyed documents to prevent Pattiz's defense
to the cross-complaint. The discovery ruling stated only that Minye misused the
discovery process and ‘egregious[ly]’ failed to comply with court-ordered
discovery. The ruling made no express findings concerning the merits of the
cross-complaint.” (Id. at p. 828.)
 
            Based
on these cases, a court’s determination that the motion for terminating
sanctions did not constitute a “favorable termination” turns on whether the
discovery misconduct related to whether the underlying action lacked merit.
 
Here, as the Court
has explained above, the trial court in the Underlying Action, determined that Joseph’s
untrue allegations were intended to overcome a statute of limitations defense.
As noted above, a dismissal based on the statute of limitations defense does
not constitute an action on the merits. A dismissal based on actions to thwart
the statute of limitations defense is effectively the same. The trial court in
the Underlying Action found Joseph’s conduct was egregious, but did not make a
determination on the merits of the claim. For purposes of determining malicious
prosecution therefore, there was no “favorable termination.”  
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. 