 Case Number:  21STCV31582    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78   JINHEE CHO,Plaintiff, vs. WOO YEON LEE,Defendant.   Case No.:  21STCV31582 Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   PLAINTIFF JINHEE CHO’S MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify counsel is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is an action for breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty. The First Amended Complaint alleges that Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to form a partnership to purchase property. Defendant engaged in self-dealing by occupying the property and paying no rent, refusing to disclose financial information, and excluding Plaintiff from all business activities and decisions. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to disqualify counsel.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to disqualify John Oh, Counsel for Defendant Woo Yeon Lee, as counsel. “Disqualification of counsel may be ordered ‘when necessary in furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).)’”  (In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 562 (quoting Elliott v. McFarland Unified School Dist. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 562, 567).)  “‘It is well settled that an attorney is prohibited from doing either of two things after severing a relationship with a former client. . . . He may not do anything which will injuriously affect his former client in any manner in which he formerly represented him nor may he at any time use against his former client knowledge or information acquired by virtue of the previous relationship.’”  (Id. (quoting People ex rel. Deukmejian v. Brown (1981) 29 Cal.3d 150, 155) (internal quotation marks omitted).)  “The purpose of the rule is to protect both confidential communications and the enduring confidential relationship between attorney and client.”  (Id.)  “Where . . . a motion for disqualification is predicated upon a claimed breach of confidentiality or conflict of interest, the trial court must undertake a cautious balancing of competing interests.”  (Id.)  “‘The court must weigh the combined effect of a party’s right to counsel of choice, an attorney’s interest in representing a client, the financial burden on a client of replacing disqualified counsel and any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification proceeding against the fundamental principle that the fair resolution of disputes within our adversary system requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel unencumbered by conflicts of interest. [Citations.]’”  (Id. at 562-63 (quoting William H. Raley Co. v. Superior Court (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1042, 1048).)  “[W]here a former client seeks to have a previous attorney disqualified from serving as counsel to a successive client in litigation adverse to the interests of the first client, the governing test requires that the client demonstrate a ‘substantial relationship’ between the subjects of the antecedent and current representations.”  (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283 [emphasis in original].)  “Where the requisite substantial relationship between the subjects of the prior and the current representations can be demonstrated, access to confidential information by the attorney in the course of the first representation (relevant, by definition, to the second representation) is presumed and disqualification of the attorney’s representation of the second client is mandatory; indeed, the disqualification extends vicariously to the entire firm.”  (Id. [emphasis in original].)  “The former client need not establish that the attorney actually possesses confidential information.”  (In re Marriage of Zimmerman, supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at 563.)  “It is the possibility of the breach of confidence, not the fact of an actual breach that triggers disqualification.”  (Id.) “[T]he attorney’s possession of confidential information will be presumed only when ‘a substantial relationship has been shown to exist between the former representation and the current representation, and when it appears by virtue of the nature of the former representation or the relationship of the attorney to his former client confidential information material to the current dispute would normally have been imparted to the attorney . . . .’”  (H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1454.)  Disqualification of the attorney from representing the second client is mandatory where the substantial relationship test is met and access to confidential information is presumed.  (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283.) “[A] ‘substantial relationship’ exists whenever the ‘subjects’ of the prior and the current representations are linked in some rational manner.”  (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 711 (citing Flatt, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 283).)  The “subject” of a representation includes “information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the litigation or transaction given its specific legal and factual issues.”  (Id. at 712-13.)  “[S]uccessive representations will be ‘substantially related’ when the evidence before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the former representation given its factual and legal issues is also material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the current representation given its factual and legal issues.”  (Id. at 713.)  To bring a motion to disqualify, generally, the movant must be a current or former client of the attorney against whom disqualification is sought; alternatively, a fiduciary or confidential relationship providing for the duty of loyalty must exist.¿ (See In re Marriage of Murchinson (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 847, 851.)¿An attorney represents a client for purposes of a conflict of interest analysis when the attorney knowingly obtains material confidential information from the client and renders legal advice or services as a result. (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1148.)California Rules of Professional Conduct rule 5-210 provides that a member shall not act as an advocate before a jury which will hear testimony from the member unless: (A) The testimony relates to an uncontested matter; or (B) The testimony relates to the nature and value of legal services rendered in the case; or (C) The member has the informed, written consent of the client. . .Plaintiff alleges that when she and Defendant Woo Yeon Lee purchased the property at issue, Oh represented Plaintiff and Lee jointly. (SAC p. 7.) Additionally, Oh wrote the partnership agreement naming Lee the sole title owner to the property. (Id.) Plaintiff provides an email in Korean with rough translations. Plaintiff failed to provide a certified translation of the email. Exhibits written in a foreign language must be accompanied by an English translation, certified under oath by a qualified interpreter. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 subd. (g).) The Court will not consider the email due to the lack of a certified translation as required.Plaintiff’s only other evidence submitted in support of the motion includes Oh’s substitution of attorney for Lee filed on August 25, 2022 (Karples Decl., Exh. 2) and the Second Amended Complaint (Id., Exh. 3.) Although the Plaintiff alleges that Oh represented both parties when they purchased the property at issue and drafted the parties’ partnership agreement, there is no evidence that Oh represented Plaintiff. The partnership agreement attached to the SAC does not mention Oh. Although Plaintiff argues that Oh is likely to be called as a witness in this action, Plaintiff fails to provide evidence that Oh was involved in purchasing the subject property.In opposition, Lee argues that Oh never represented Plaintiff. Lee testifies that Lee hired Oh for this litigation and never hired Oh jointly with Plaintiff. (Lee Decl., ¶¶3, 6.) Although Oh was unavailable when this litigation began due to ill health, Lee retained Oh after he returned to work. (Id., ¶¶4-5.) Oh testifies that he has never represented, executed a retainer agreement with, or discussed the substance of the parties’ contract with Plaintiff. (Id., ¶3.) Finally, Oh testifies that the email Plaintiff submitted consisted of one email between Plaintiff and Lee that Oh was not copied on and three private emails between Lee and Oh. (Id., ¶4.) Lee’s evidence shows that Oh was never retained by Plaintiff and never discussed the transaction that is the subject of this lawsuit with Plaintiff. The evidence shows that Oh never knowingly obtained confidential information from Plaintiff. Additionally, Oh never provided legal advice or services for Plaintiff. Therefore, the motion is denied.DATED: October 6, 2023 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 