

Hearing Date:             October
12, 2023
Case
Name:                Corine Cano v.
General Motors, LLC
Case
No.:                    21STCV26927
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment,
or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving
Party:             Defendant General
Motors LLC
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff Corine Cano
 

Ruling:                       The motion for summary judgment is granted. 

 
This is an action
under the Song-Beverly Act in which Plaintiff Corine Cano (Plaintiff) alleges
defects in a 2020 Chevrolet Malibu (Vehicle). Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle
on August 20, 2020. Plaintiff brought the Vehicle for service to GM’s
authorized repair facility on numerous occasions. The Complaint asserts breaches
of express and implied warranties against General Motors, LLC (Defendant or GM).  
 
Defendant GM now moves
for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on the claims
for express warranties (first and third causes of action) and the breach of
implied warranties (second cause of action). 

 
GM principally contends that because the Vehicle was
purchased used, the Song-Beverly Act does not apply under a recent Court of
Appeal decision, Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez).

 
Plaintiff opposes
the Motion.[1]
In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks a continuance pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).
 
Plaintiff’s
request for continuance is denied. The Court grants the motion for summary judgment.
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
            Defendant’s
objection to Plaintiff’s evidence is ruled as follows:  Objections nos. 1-22 are sustained. 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party has
the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
does not dispute that she purchased the Vehicle used.  Her complaint states that she “purchased a
used 2020 Chevrolet Malibu.”  The retail
installment sales contract identified the Vehicle as “used,” and the odometer
disclosed 5993 miles on it when Plaintiff purchased it.  Rather, Plaintiff argues that this used
vehicle can be deemed “new” under the Song-Beverly Act because the new car
warranty had not expired.
 
Defendant GM moves
for summary judgment on the grounds that because the Vehicle was purchased
used, the Song-Beverly Act does not apply under a recent Court of Appeal
decision, Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez).  
 
Plaintiff opposes
the Motion, contending that Rodriguez is not binding because the
California Supreme Court has granted the petition for review.  Plaintiff contends that Jensen v. BMW of
North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 (Jensen) governs,
which held that cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer’s
warranty constitute a “new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
First and Third Cause of Action
– Breach of Express Warranty
 
            Defendant GM moves for summary adjudication on
Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action, alleging breach of express
warranty and violation of Civil Code section 1793.2.  GM contends that Plaintiff’s claims fail as a
matter of law because Plaintiff did not buy the vehicle as a “new motor
vehicle.”
 
“ ‘A plaintiff
pursuing an action under the [Song-Beverly] Act has the burden to prove that
(1) the vehicle had a nonconformity covered by the express warranty that
substantially impaired the use, value or safety of the vehicle (the
nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was presented to an authorized
representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle for repair (the presentation
element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative did not repair the
nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts (the failure to
repair element).’ ”  (Donlen v. Ford
Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 152.)
 
            GM’s
argument for summary adjudication relies heavily on Rodriguez and
distinguishes Jensen.[2] At issue in both Rodriguez and Jensen
is the meaning of “new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. In
relevant part, the statutory language states:
 
“New motor vehicle” includes the chassis,
chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion, but
does not include any portion designed, used, or maintained primarily for human
habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a “demonstrator” or other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.” (Civ. Code, §
1793.22, subd. (e)(2), [italics added].)
 
In Rodriguez, the “sole issue in
the case [was] whether the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty’ covers sales of previously owned vehicles with
some balance remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty.” The plaintiff
in Rodriguez purchased a used truck from a third-party used car
dealership that had 55,000 miles on it. The plaintiff did not purchase any
additional warranties, though the original powertrain warranty was still in
effect at the time of purchase. (77 Cal.App.5th at p. 209.) The trial court
granted the vehicle manufacturer’s motion for summary judgment because the
vehicle was “used.” 
 
The Fourth District affirmed the order,
finding that the statutory text and legislative history supported its reasoning
that a used vehicle with some balance of the original warranty was not a “new
motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. (Id. at pp. 219-223.) Specifically,
the Rodriguez court reasoned that section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2)
referred to a list of “two vehicles (dealer-owned vehicles ‘and’ demonstrators)
followed by an adjectival clause qualifying or describing those vehicles.” It
explained that the lack of a comma in the phrase “dealer-owned vehicle and a
‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty” suggested that the latter phrase “or other motor vehicle” was
“intended to function as a catchall provision to cover a narrow class vehicle –
the previously driven, but basically new (i.e., not previously sold) car.” (77
Cal.App.5th at p. 220.)
 
The Court of Appeal further noted that it
was unclear whether the third-party dealership issued any warranties to
plaintiffs, “but that would be the only way they could seek a refund or
replacement under the Act.” (Id. at p. 223.) The court concluded “that
the phrase ‘other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’
refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold cars
accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.” (Id. at p. 225.)
 
The Rodriguez court discussed Jensen,
supra, 35 Cal.App.4th 112. In distinguishing the earlier case, it
concluded that Jensen was “correctly decided,” but its interpretation of
section 1793.22 should be limited to the specific facts before it. (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 224.) 
 
            In Jensen, the
plaintiff leased a vehicle from a manufacturer-affiliated dealer. The vehicle
had been driven 7,565 miles. The salesman incorrectly represented that it “had
been used as a demonstrator for the dealership.” (35 Cal.App.4th at p. 119.)
The lease was issued with a “36,000-mile warranty on top of the miles already
on the car.”  The Jensen court
concluded that “the words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from
ambiguity” because “[t]he use of the word ‘or’ in the statute indicates
‘demonstrator’ and ‘other motor vehicle’ are intended as alternative or
separate categories of ‘new motor vehicle’ if they are ‘sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty.’” (Id. at p. 123.) The
court noted the “peculiar grammatical structure” of the section and further
reviewed the amendments, documents relating to legislative proceedings, and the
overall statutory scheme, concluding that “section 1793.22 includes cars sold
with a balance remaining on the new motor vehicle warranty.” The court cited to
the “Act’s purpose as a remedial measure” and to protect “‘any individual to
whom the vehicle is transferred during the duration of a written
warranty.’”  (Id. at p. 126.) Jensen
concluded that under section 1793.22, “cars sold with a balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty are included within its
definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’” (35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123.)  
 
            In contrast to Rodriguez,
the Jensen court did not emphasize the lack of a comma in the phrase
“dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty,” but instead focused on the word “or” to hold
that this phrase created an additional category of “new motor vehicle.” (Ibid.)
Thus, while Rodriguez concluded that the clause defined two additional
types of vehicles as “new,” the Jensen Court concluded that the clause
defined three:  dealer-owned vehicles,
demonstrators, and other vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.
 
In distinguishing Jensen, the Rodriguez
court emphasized that “Jensen involved a lease by a
manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car warranty along
with the lease.”  (Rodriguez, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at p. 223 [original italics].) Allowing that Jensen was
“correctly decided,” Rodriguez commented that its statutory
interpretation should be limited to the unique facts in that case: the
manufacturer had issued a full warranty at the time of sale.  
 
Several other cases in the Fourth
District have distinguished Jensen on similar grounds. (Kiluk v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 340, n.4 [questioning Jensen’s
broad holding that “every car sold with any portion of a new-vehicle warranty
remaining is a new motor vehicle] (Kiluk); Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 905, 923 [limiting Jensen to the facts in the case which
involved a lease from the dealer, not a private party].)[3] Further, as explained
in Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, the court found that,
under section 1795.5, “[t]he same protections generally apply to sale of used
goods accompanied by an express warranty, except that the distributor or retail
seller is bound, as opposed to the manufacturer, and the duration of the
implied warranty of merchantability is much shorter.” (Id. at 336.)
 
Not surprisingly,
Plaintiff argues that Jensen should govern here and Defendant GM argues
that Rodriguez applies.  
 
Defendant GM bears
the burden of persuasion to demonstrate there is no triable issue of fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 845.) As a
manufacturer, GM may face liability under the Song-Beverly Act if it “sells
directly to the public” by partnering with a dealership to sell used vehicles
directly to the public.” (Kiluk, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 340.)  By doing so, a manufacturer can “step[] into
the role of a retailer and [may be] subject to the obligations of a retailer
under section 1795.5,” which is the same as a manufacturer under section
1793.2. (Kiluk, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 340.)  
 
Here, Defendant GM
argues that the first and third causes of action fail under Song-Beverly Act
because, like the plaintiff in Rodriguez, the Plaintiff purchased the
Vehicle used and the Vehicle was not purchased from a manufacturer-affiliated
dealer and without a new manufacturer warranty. 
 
As noted, the Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle “used.” (Compl., ¶ 8 [“On August
20, 2020, Plaintiff purchased a used 2020 Chevrolet Malibu.”] [Emphasis
added]; see also Oaks Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A [Retail Installment Sale Contract
specifying vehicle was being sold “Used”].) Further, Defendant’s evidence shows
that Rydell Chevrolet delivered the Vehicle “new” to its original owner(s) on
July 24, 2019, with 9 miles on the odometer. (DSS 5 [Oaks Decl., Ex. B].) Therefore,
the Vehicle was sold at least twice before it was purchased by Plaintiff: first
to National Car Rental from Rydell Chevrolet and was later sold to Advantage
Auto Sales before it was purchased by Plaintiff. (Oaks Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7, Exs.
A-B.) 
 
Additionally, the undisputed
evidence shows that Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle from Advantage Auto Sales,
Inc. (Advantage). (DSS 2.) Defendant submits evidence that Advantage Auto
Sales, Inc. is not a GM-authorized dealership. (DSS 4.) 
 
As noted, Plaintiff
does not dispute she bought the used Vehicle from Advantage—not GM. In an
attempt to tie GM to Advantage in order to attach liability under Song-Beverly,
Plaintiff suggests the following convoluted theory of ownership and liability:
 
“Plaintiff purchased
the vehicle from Advantage Auto Sales, Inc., which acquired the Subject Vehicle
from an auto auction. Based on information and belief, Michael Chevrolet was
the previous owner, and the Enterprise Family, however, is the first and sole
registered commercial owner prior to the Plaintiff’s purchase. Enterprise
family routinely conducts business with GM, and served as GM’s agent. Its
subsidiaries, National Car Rental and EAN Holdings LLC are service agents of
GM, respectively with the BAC number of 139812 and 126389. Moreover, EAN
Holdings LLC conducted the pre-delivery inspection on July 25, 2019.
Additionally, Advantage first acquired the Subject Vehicle under GM’s Fleet
Purchase Risk Program. BAC is a unique dealer number assigned by GM to each
dealership, with which the dealership can log in to GM Approved Dealer Service
Equipment (https://gmdesolutions.com/), as “GM Dealer Shopper.” The website
also listed the mailing address for GM Equipment Program.” (Opp. 9:25-10:7; PSS
4.)
 
Plaintiff does not
submit direct evidence that Advantage GM-authorized dealership. Nor is the
following even circumstantial evidence of a relationship between GM and
Advantage. The evidence supporting this theory is speculative and, most
importantly, inadmissible. 
 
As Plaintiff did
not dispute GM’s evidence with admissible evidence, GM’s evidence that the
Vehicle is “used” and not purchased from GM-affiliated dealer is undisputed. Based
on the foregoing, there is no triable issue of material fact in dispute with respect
to GM’s evidence that Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle used from a GM-authorized
dealer. 
 
Further, Defendant
GM submits evidence that Plaintiff here did not receive any new or additional
warranty coverage from GM; instead, she received from GM only the balance of
coverage under the Warranty that GM issued when the vehicle was delivered new
to the original owner(s). (DSS 6-7; Compl., ¶ 8 [“Express warranties
accompanied the sale of the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff by which GENERAL
MOTORS LLC undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of
Plaintiff’s vehicle or to provide compensation if there was a failure in such
utility or performance.”].)
 
Plaintiff disputes
this evidence by relying on the statement of an unknown Advantage sales
personnel who stated that Vehicle would be covered by GM’s applicable new motor
vehicle consumer warranties. (PSS 7 [Cano Decl., ¶¶ 4-6].) As noted in the
Court’s evidentiary rulings above, this hearsay evidence is inadmissible. 
 
  Based
on the foregoing, there is no material fact in dispute and the undisputed
evidence shows that GM did not issue Plaintiff a new car warranty when she
purchased the vehicle. 
 
            The
facts presented here are closer to those in Rodriguez and different from
those in Jensen. The Court need not decide which case to follow; it is
guided by them both. Both support the conclusion that Plaintiff – who was not
issued a manufacturer’s new vehicle warranty when she bought an admittedly used
vehicle[4]
– cannot be deemed to have purchased a new motor vehicle.   
 
Accordingly, the
Court grants Defendant’s motion to summarily adjudicate the first and third
causes of action for breach of express warranty. 
 
Second Cause of Action - Breach
of Implied Warranty
 
            Defendant
also moves for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s second cause of action,
alleging breach of implied warranty under the Song–Beverly Act, fails as a
matter of law because plaintiff bought the vehicle used and GM was not a
“distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods in [the] sale” of the used
vehicle to Plaintiff. 
 
In vehicle sales,
the implied warranty of merchantability “means that the goods ‘[p]ass without
objection in the trade under the contract description,’ and are ‘fit for the
ordinary purposes for which such goods are used.’ ” (Brand v. Hyundai Motor
Am. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1545.) “[A] new car need not ‘be perfect
in every detail’; rather, its implied merchantability ‘requires only that a
vehicle be reasonably suited for ordinary use.’ ” (Id. at p. 1546.) A
plaintiff must show that at the time of purchase “the product did not possess
even the most basic degree of fitness for ordinary use.” (Mocek v. Alfa
Leisure, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 402, 406.) For a vehicle, this
means whether it was fit for driving and the “ordinary purpose of providing
transportation.” (American Suzuki Motor Corp. v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1296.)  
 
            Defendant
argues that this claim fails because Plaintiffs did not purchase the used
vehicle from GM. Plaintiff, in opposition, contends that the Vehicle was a “new
motor vehicle” and the implied warranties under Civil Code sections 1792 and
1793 apply. 
 
            “[I]n
the sale of used consumer goods, liability for breach of implied warranty lies
with distributors and retailers, not the manufacturer, where there is no
evidence the manufacturer played any role in the sale of the used car to
plaintiff.” (Ruiz Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 398 (Nunez).)
“[O]nly distributors or sellers of used goods—not manufacturers of new
goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale of used goods.” (Id.
at p. 399 [italics in original].)  
 
            As
discussed above, the Vehicle here is a used Vehicle. Defendant GM’s evidence
shows that Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle used from Advantage, which was not a
GM-affiliated dealer. Defendant has met its initial burden of showing through
evidence that it is only the manufacturer of this used Vehicle.
 
             Plaintiff argues that the Vehicle was purchased
new from GM dealer-owned commercial rental fleet vehicle. (Yang Decl., ¶¶ 5-11,
Exhs. 1-8.) Again, as noted above, Plaintiff does not submit admissible
evidence to support this material fact. Moreover, as GM agues, “[a] vehicle
sold in a fleet for commercial use—here, as a rental vehicle—does not suddenly
become “new” when later sold to a consumer.” (Reply 2:26-27.) Plaintiff fails
to meet her burden to raise a triable issue of fact in dispute to counter
Defendant’s showing.
 
            Accordingly,
summary adjudication is granted on the second cause of action. 
 
Request for Continuance
pursuant to Section 437c(h), Request for Leave to Amend, and Request for a Stay
 
            In
the alternative, Plaintiff requests relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (h), on the grounds that further essential discovery relating
to the GM’s Fleet Purchase Risk Program, GM’s administration, policies, and
procedures for use and maintenance, of applicable warranties for dealer-owned
GM vehicles fleet vehicles is necessary.
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), “mandates a continuance of a
summary judgment hearing upon a good faith showing by affidavit that additional
time is needed to obtain facts essential to justify opposition to the motion.”
(Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 246, 253–254; Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h) [“[i]f it appears from the affidavits submitted in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both,
that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons
stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, [or] order a continuance
to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just”].)
 
            “Continuance
of a summary judgment hearing is not mandatory, however, ... when the submitted
affidavit fails to make the necessary showing under [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 437c, subdivision (h).” (Cooksey, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p.
254.) The necessary showing is: “(1) the facts to be obtained are essential to
opposing the motion; (2) there is reason to believe such facts may exist; and
(3) the reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.” (Wachs
v. Curry (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 616, 623 abrogated on other grounds by Marathon
Entertainment, Inc. v. Blasi (2008) 42 Cal.4th 974,
987, fn. 6.) In connection with the third requirement, “[t]here must be a
justifiable reason why the essential facts cannot be presented. An
inappropriate delay in seeking to obtain the facts may not be a valid reason
why the facts cannot then be presented.” (Cooksey, supra, 123
Cal.App.4th at p. 257.) Thus, a majority of courts have held “that lack of
diligence may be a ground for denying a request for a continuance of a summary
judgment motion hearing.” (Ibid.)


            Here,
Plaintiff’s position that this additional discovery may lead to facts essential
to opposing the motion for summary judgment is entirely speculative, based
largely on “information and belief.” (Yang Decl., ¶¶ 9-20.) Those statements,
lacking personal knowledge, are inadmissible and cannot support an issue of
fact. (Evid. Code, § 702 [witness testimony inadmissible without personal
knowledge]; Kellett v. Kellett (1934) 2 Cal.2d 45, 48 [“affidavit made
upon information and belief is hearsay and no proof of the facts stated therein”].)

 
Notably, Plaintiff
seeks a large swath of documents suggesting that the discovery is nothing more
than a fishing expedition. (Yang Decl., ¶ 22.) Further, the declaration in
support does not justify the delay in obtaining this discovery. (Yang Decl., ¶¶
24-25.) This matter has been pending since July 22, 2021. Plaintiff’s evidence shows
no attempts to undertake the relevant discovery until May 8, 2023 –
approximately two months before the motion for summary judgment was filed and a
mere six months before trial. (Yang Decl., ¶ 25.) Additionally, there are no
discovery motions currently pending and, at the time of this hearing, the discovery
cutoff date will be only days away.[5] Nothing
suggests that the additional discovery Plaintiff seeks could not have been
obtained sooner with reasonable diligence. 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) is intended “ ‘[t]o mitigate
summary judgment's harshness’ ” (Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
627, 634) “for an opposing party who has not had an opportunity to marshal the
evidence.” (Mary Morgan, Inc. v. Melzark (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 765,
770.) Plaintiff had such an opportunity.
 
            Plaintiff
also seeks leave to file a first amended complaint to add “the material facts
encompassing the commercial/business relationship between GM and Enterprise
Family, GM’s Fleet Purchase Risk Program, and the new warranties issued by GM
at the time of Plaintiff’s purchase.” As the Court noted above, these so-called
“material facts” are insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact
and also lacking in any evidentiary support. It is unclear why the Court would
allow amendment to plead facts that Plaintiffs cannot substantiate with
evidence in order to circumvent this deficiency at the time of a motion for
summary judgment. Likewise, the Court declines to stay the matter pending the
Supreme Court review of Rodriguez. As argued in the Reply, when granting
review, the Supreme Court declined to de-publish the Court of Appeal opinion,
thereby allowing this Court to rely on this case. (Rodriguez, July 13, 2022,
S274625.)
 
            The
request for continuance is denied. The request for leave to amend is denied.
The request for a stay is denied.  
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is granted. Defendant GM is ordered to prepare, serve, and
lodge a proposed Judgment within fifteen days of the hearing on the motion.  


