

 
BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL
HISTORY         
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff Chuon Guen Lee and Defendants Michael Stevenson
(Stevenson) and Tarell Meeks (Meeks) formed a company called Kings to
manufacture and market a clothing line bearing the logo of Kings – a logo
associated with hip-hop artist Tyga. Plaintiff Lee invested her money into this
joint-venture company through her company, Aphection, Inc, upon the promise
that Defendants would promote the clothing lines and do their utmost to bring in
purchase orders from retailer, Tilly’s. However, once the business became
successful, Defendants formed their own competing company, Egypt Last Kings
Clothing LLC, which engaged in direct competition with Plaintiff’s interests.
Plaintiff alleged damages in the amount of $1,600,000. 
 
            On
March 22, 2016, the Court entered default judgment against Defendants Meeks,
Stevenson, and Egypt Last Kings Clothing LLC in the amount of $1,926,604.36. 
 
            On
April 20, 2018, Plaintiff sought an assignment of royalties due to Judgment
Debtor Michael Stevenson aka Tyga’s record labels, publishers and distributors,
including Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) and the American Society of Composers and
Publishers (ASCAP) to satisfy the Judgment. On June 26, 2018, the Court granted
the motion for assignment and issued an assignment order as to payments paid by
BMI to Judgment Debtors. After an ex parte application from Plaintiff, the
Court also granted an assignment order for payment received from the streaming
service, Spotify, Inc. 
 
            On
January 19, 2023, Defendant/Judgment Debtor Michael Stevenson sought an order
directing Plaintiff to disclose the total proceeds and amounts that Plaintiff/Judgment
Creditor has collected to date on the default money judgment entered in favor
of Judgment Creditors as against Judgment Debtor Stevenson, including an
accounting of all monies collected to date in satisfaction of the judgment.
 
            On
April 19, 2023, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor filed a Partial Acknowledgment of
Satisfaction of Judgment in the amount of $1,798,543.05.[1] 
 
            On
June 19, 2023, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor moved for an order supplementing the
June 26, 2018 Order to reflect sums continuing to be owed to Judgment Creditor
following partial satisfaction of judgment, identifying $1,460,898.43 in unpaid
post-judgment interest and principal. No opposition was filed. No proof of
service was filed as to Judgment Debtor. 
 
            In
a hearing on August 22, 2023, the Court raised the issue of the lack of a proof
of service and whether Judgment Creditor was required to provide notice of this
motion to Judgment Debtor. The Court continued the matter to allow Judgment
Creditor the opportunity to brief this issue. However, rather than address this
issue, Judgment Creditor filed a proof of service, purporting to serve “Dina
Lapolt” at “Lapolt Law, P.C., 9000 Sunset Blvd., Suite 800, West Hollywood, CA
90069” with the Motion to Supplement
Order of Assignment, and the Notice of Continuance (filed September 29, 2023),
and Memorandum of Costs (filed on October 2, 2023).
 
            Plaintiff/Judgment
Creditor’s request for judicial notice of Exhibits A-C is granted. (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (h).) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor seeks
amendment of the June 26, 2018 Order, pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Order, to
specify the remainder owed and payable through the assignment of royalties
collected by Broadcast Music Inc. (BMI). 
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section 685.010 (calculation of
post-judgment interest) and Code of Civil Procedure section 708.520
(authorizing a court to restrain Judgment Debtor from further assigning
royalties or otherwise disposing the right to payment), the Court has the
authority to issue an order approving assignment of post-judgment interest as
accrued on any unpaid judgment.
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor
submits a detailed calculation of payments received to date from BMI and the
calculation of the continuing interest of 10% per year on the unpaid judgment
amounts. (Shining Decl., ¶ 15.) Based on these calculations, Plaintiff/Judgment
Creditor asserts that she is owed a further $1,460,898.43 as of June 13, 2023. (Shining
Decl., ¶¶ 11, 21, Ex. E.) 
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor’s
motion is well-taken. However, as noted above, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor
served this motion on “Dina Lapolt.” There is no substitution of attorney in
the Court’s records identifying “Dina Lapolt” as counsel for Judgment Debtor.
Further, an entirely different law firm appeared before this Court on a January
19, 2023 ex parte application, purporting to represent Judgment Debtor. Thus,
this proof of service does not appear to remedy the issue of service on
Judgment Debtor. At the hearing on the motion, the Court will inquire about the
factual and legal bases why service on Dina Lapolt is proper service on Defendant
Stevenson. 


