 Case Number:  BC616804    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PICO
  NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
CITY OF
  SANTA MONICA.


 Case No.: 
  BC616804
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 8, 2024



 
Defendant
City of Santa Monica’s motion regarding further proceedings on remand is
granted. Parties are ordered to file briefs explaining their respective
positions under the new standard for dilution articulated by the Supreme Court.
 Parties’ briefs may address the last
three Santa Monica City Council elections. Parties are allowed to file
simultaneous supplemental briefs of up to 25 pages, excluding declarations and
exhibits.  Parties then have 30 days to
file simultaneous supplemental responding briefs of up to 15 pages each.
Plaintiffs
Pico Neighborhood Association’s and Maria Loya’s motion for re-issuance of
judgment entered by this Court on February 13, 2019, consistent with the
guidance of the California Supreme Court is denied. 
 
Defendant City of Santa Monica (“City”)
(“Defendant”) moves for this Court to permit the parties to file simultaneous
supplemental briefs of up to 25 pages, excluding declarations and exhibits,
present arguments under the legal standard articulated by the California
Supreme Court in Pico Neighborhood Association v. City of Santa Monica (2023)
15 Cal.5th 292, and introduce new evidence concerning the results of the three
most recent City Council elections.  (Motion Further Proceedings, pg. 7.)  Defendant requests the parties to then have
30 days to file simultaneous supplemental responding briefs of up to 15 pages
each.  (Motion Further Proceedings, pg.
7.)
Plaintiffs Pico Neighborhood Association
(“PNA”) and Maria Loya (“Loya”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for
re-issuance of the judgment entered by this Court on February 13, 2019,
consistent with the guidance of the California Supreme Court.  (Notice Re-issue Judgment, pg. 1.)  
Plaintiffs move on the following grounds: (1)
this Court entered judgment, and issued a corresponding Statement of Decision,
on February 13, 2019, and as the California Supreme Court would later
recognize, this Court “found that the City’s at-large voting system unlawfully
diluted the electoral strength of its Latino residents within the meaning of
the California Voting Rights Act (“CVRA”), in that several alternative voting
systems—e.g., district-based elections, cumulative voting, limited voting, and
ranked choice voting—would better enable Latino voters to elect candidates of
their choice or influence the outcomes of elections”  (Pico Neighborhood Association, 15
Cal.5th at pg. 309, internal quotations omitted; see also id. at pg.
307); (2) the Court of Appeal observed that the California Supreme Court did
not “reinstate the trial court’s judgment on the Act”; indeed, the deadlines
for some of the injunctive relief ordered in this Court’s February 13, 2019,
Judgment have now passed, and thus must be modified to reflect the later entry
of a reissued judgment; (3) the Court of Appeal remanded this case back to this
Court “for further proceedings consistent with the Supreme Court’s guidance,”
and this Court’s analysis of vote dilution mirrors that directed by the
California Supreme Court, obviating the need for further findings for
disposition of this case; and (4) re-issuing the judgment is a simple
ministerial act for this Court in light of this Court’s findings and analysis
in its February 13, 2019 Statement of Decision. 
(Notice Re-issue Judgment, pg. 1.)
 
Procedural History
Plaintiffs sued Defendant in 2016 claiming Defendant’s
at-large system violates the CVRA by diluting Latinos’ votes and that by
adopting and maintaining that system, Defendant intentionally discriminated
against minority voters in violation of California’s Equal Protection Clause.  
The trial court held a six-week bench trial in
the fall of 2018.  A central question in
this case is whether Latino voters cohesively supported candidates who ended up
losing because of white bloc voting.
On November 5, 2018, Judge Yvette M. Palazuelos
issued a tentative decision stating only that the court found in favor of
plaintiffs on both of their causes of action.  The court ordered Plaintiffs to prepare a
proposed statement of decision and judgment, which Plaintiffs did.  On February 13, 2019, Judge Palazuelos adopted
both proposals. 
Defendant appealed the trial court’s
judgment.  The Court of Appeal reversed
the trial court’s judgment and directed the trial court to enter judgment for
Defendant.
Plaintiffs petitioned for review of the Court
of Appeal opinion.  The California
Supreme Court granted the petition, but only “to determine what constitutes
dilution of a protected class’s ability to elect candidates of its choice or to
influence the outcome of an election within the meaning of the CVRA.”  (Pico Neighborhood Association, 15
Cal.5th at pg. 310.)  The Supreme Court
also ordered the Court of Appeal’s decision depublished (id.), but it
remains law of the case with respect to plaintiffs’ Equal Protection claim (People
v. Rivera (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 494, 495; CRC, Rule 8.115(b)(1)).
The Supreme Court “express[ed] no view on the
ultimate question of whether the City’s at-large voting system is consistent
with the CVRA” and remanded the case to the Court of Appeal to decide “whether,
under the correct legal standard, plaintiffs have established that at-large
elections dilute their ability to elect their preferred candidates,” as well as
“whether plaintiffs have demonstrated the existence of racially polarized
voting” and “any of the other unresolved issues in the City’s appeal.”  (Pico Neighborhood Association, 15
Cal.5th at pgs. 324-325.)
On remand, the Court of Appeal issued an order
calling for supplemental briefing, noting that the Supreme Court did not
“reinstate the trial court’s judgment” and instead only “identified the proper
way to analyze” the CVRA. The Court of Appeal also “invite[d] the parties to
include in their briefing whether it would be appropriate to remand the case to
the trial court” to perform the analysis necessary to decide whether the City’s
current election system dilutes Latino voting strength.
After briefing, the Court of Appeal issued an
order remanding the case to this Court “for further proceedings consistent with
the Supreme Court’s guidance.” (Remand Order, pg. 2.)  The Court of Appeal reiterated that the
Supreme Court “did not review the [Equal Protection] issue,” which the Court of
Appeal had rejected, “nor did it reinstate the trial court’s judgment on the
[CVRA]” claim.
Defendant filed its motion regarding further
proceedings on remand on June 26, 2024. 
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on July 26, 2024.  Defendant filed its reply on August 1, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed their motion to re-issue
judgment on July 10, 2024.  Defendant
filed its opposition on July 26, 2024. 
Plaintiffs filed their reply on August 1, 2024.
 
1.     Defendant’s Motion for Further Proceedings
Discussion
“When a trial court applies the wrong legal
standard,” it is natural that “the record might not be fully developed” as it
relates to the right standard.  (In re
J.R. (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 526, 532.)  When some parties and the court focus on what
turns out to be the wrong legal test, it may be the case “that further
information was available, but not presented, at the time” of the trial court’s
judgment.  (In re Charlisse C.
(2008) 45 Cal.4th 145, 167.)  As a
result, when a court announces “the applicable test for the first time,” the
parties “should be allowed to present additional evidence to meet that test if
they choose.”  (Cel-Tech Communications,
Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 190.)
The appellate decisions in this case were the
first to ever evaluate the elements of the CVRA.  The California Supreme Court granted review to
give guidance to lower courts on the legal standard for evaluating vote
dilution under the CVRA.  The California
Supreme Court has now announced that standard, under which “[c]ourts should
consider the totality of the facts and circumstances of the particular case,
including the characteristics of the specific locality, its electoral history,
and an intensely local appraisal of the design and impact of the contested
electoral mechanisms as well as the design and impact of the potential
alternative system.”  (Pico Neighborhood
Association, 15 Cal.5th at pg. 320, citations and quotation marks omitted.)
 “The key inquiry in establishing
dilution of a protected class’s ability to elect its preferred candidate under
the CVRA” under a different election system “is what percentage of the vote
would be required to win.”  (Id.)
Neither the parties nor Judge Palazuelos had the benefit of that standard
during trial.
The CVRA provides that elections predating the
filing of an action “are more probative to establish the existence of racially
polarized voting than elections conducted after the filing of an action.”  (Elec. Code §14028(a).)  That pre-complaint elections are “more
probative” does not mean that post-complaint elections are irrelevant; to the
contrary, it means that post-complaint elections must be “probative” to some
degree, at least.  (See, e.g., Segal
v. ASICS America Corp. (2002) 12 Cal.5th 651, 662 [stating courts must give
statutes their “plain and commonsense meaning”].)
Plaintiffs argue Judge Palazuelos predicted
what the Supreme Court would later articulate on Plaintiffs burden to prove vote
dilution, so this Court should begin and end its dilution analysis with the
2019 decision.  (Opposition. at pgs.
10-12; see also id. at pg. 11 n.7.)  Plaintiffs’ argument does not square with the reality
that two appellate courts ordered remand.  Further, the 2019 Statement of Decision
actually said very little on the subject of dilution.  The Court of Appeal observed:
In passing, the trial court[’s Statement of Decision] mentioned
“cumulative voting, limited voting and ranked choice voting” as systems that,
as alternatives to district voting, would also “enhance” Latino voting power. The
court’s treatment of these alternatives was perfunctory. The court did not
define cumulative voting, limited voting, or ranked choice voting. Nor did it
attempt to analyze how each might satisfy the dilution element. This
fleeting reference, which Pico authored, is insubstantial and cannot
support the judgment.
 
(Pico Neighborhood Association v. City of
Santa Monica (2020) 265 Cal.Rptr.3d 530, 547, as modified on denial of
reh’g (Aug. 5, 2020), as modified (Sept. 20, 2023), rev’d and
remanded sub nom. Pico Neighborhood Association v. City of Santa Monica
(2023) 15 Cal.5th 292, emphasis added.)
          Further,
Plaintiffs argued both at trial and on appeal that Oscar de la Torre’s loss in
the 2016 Council election supports their case.  If de la Torre’s post-complaint defeat in 2016
matters, then so should his post-complaint victory in 2020.
          Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to permit the parties to file briefs explaining their
respective positions on how Defendant’s election system measures up under the
new standard for dilution articulated by the Supreme Court is granted. Parties’
briefs may address the last three Council elections.  Parties then are allowed to file simultaneous
supplemental briefs of up to 25 pages, excluding declarations and exhibits.  Parties have 30 days to file simultaneous
supplemental responding briefs of up to 15 pages each.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for further proceedings is
granted.  
Parties are ordered to file briefs explaining
their respective positions on how Defendant’s election system measures up under
the new standard for dilution articulated by the Supreme Court.  Parties’ briefs may address the last three
Council elections. 
Parties are allowed to file simultaneous
supplemental briefs of up to 25 pages, excluding declarations and
exhibits.  Parties have 30 days to file
simultaneous supplemental responding briefs of up to 15 pages each.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.     Plaintiffs’ Motion to Re-issue Judgment
Discussion
In light of the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s
motion, Plaintiffs’ motion to re-issue judgment is denied.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ motion to re-issue judgment is
denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
August _____, 2024
                                                                             





  