  Case Number:  23TRCV01897    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
LORENA
  MARTIN; ESTELA MARTIN; JUAN MARTIN, JR.; JUAN MARTIN, SR.,


 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01897




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




ALICE
  SONG ; JULIA SONG ; THE SHEARIN GROUP, INC.; AND DOES 1 THROUGH 50,
  inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




RELATED CROSS-COMPLAINT


 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             October 16, 2024        
 
Moving Parties:          Cross-Defendants Lorena Martin, Estela
Martin, Juan Martin Jr., and Juan Martin, Sr.
Responding Party:      Cross-Complainants Julia Song and Alice
Song.
HEARING: 473.5A MOTION
TO VACATE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
            The Court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
 
RULING
Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
            On June 13, 2023,
Cross-Defendants Lorena Martin, Estela Martin, Juan Martin, Jr., and Juan
Martin, Sr. (“Cross-Defendants”) filed a Complaint against Defendants The
Shearin Group, Inc., Does 1 through 50, and Cross-Complainants Julia Song and
Alice Song (collectively, “Cross-Complaints”).
            
            On October 11, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants, alleging (1)
breach of contract-written contract, and (2) breach of contract-implied
contract. Cross-Complainants sought damages totaling $48,890.00, interest on
such damages, and attorney’s fees. Such Cross-Complaint was filed pursuant to
stipulation by the parties, which was signed by Cross-Defendants’ Counsel, Binh
Bui, on October 3, 2023.
 
            On October 20, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed a Proof of Service by Substituted Service on
Cross-Defendants. This filing establishes the Cross-Complainants served summons
on the Cross-Complaint on Cross-Defendants’ Counsel, Binh Bui, by electronic
facsimile on October 17, 2023. It further establishes that Cross-Complainants
served summons on the Cross-Complaint on Cross-Defendants’ Counsel, Binh Bui, as
well as Harry Safarian and Ilya Signayevsky, by email on October 17, 2023.
 
            On December 5, 2023,
Cross-Complainants’ Request for Entry of Default and Default Judgment was
entered by the Court.
 
            On December 20, 2023,
Cross-Complainants served the Notice of Entry of Default, via email service, on
Cross-Defendants’ Counsel, Binh Bui, as well as Harry Safarian and Ilya
Signayevsky.
 
            On July 24, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed an Assignment of Judgment with the Court, and on
September 16, 2024, Cross-Complainants’ assignee filed a Writ of Execution on
such judgment.
 
            On September 19,
2024, Cross-Defendants filed the instant 473.5 Motion to Vacate Default and
Default Judgment.
 
            On October 1, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed an Opposition.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b)
provides for discretionary relief and for mandatory relief, depending on the
circumstances.  For mandatory
relief,  “whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).).  
 
For discretionary relief, “[t]he court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b).) A moving party need only establish “mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect” by a preponderance of the evidence. (Luz v. Lopes (1960)
55 Cal.2d 54, 62.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 permits
the Court to set aside a default and default judgment when the service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5(a).)  Under the statute, “actual notice”
“means genuine knowledge of the party litigant and does not contemplate notice
imputed to a principal from an attorney's actual notice.” (Pulte Homes Corp.
v. Williams Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 274.)  
 
Section 473.5 requires the motion to be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by the party's avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect. Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5(b).)¿The notice of
motion for relief under section 473.5 shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of the following: (1)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (2) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5(a).) In addition, a copy
of the proposed answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Timeliness
 
Here,
under either Code of Civil Procedure §§ 473(b) or
473.5(a), Cross-Defendants’ motion was not timely filed. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b)’s discretionary relief provision a motion to
vacate the entry of default judgment must be “filed within a reasonable time,
but in no event exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5(a), a motion to vacate the entry of default
judgment based upon improper service must be “filed within a reasonable
time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a
default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on
him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered.”
 
Here,
the parties do not dispute that, on December 20, 2024, Cross-Complainants’
counsel served on Cross-Defendants’ counsel Notice of Entry of Default.
Further, as established by the verified statements of Cross-Complainants’
Counsel under penalty of perjury, on December 22, 2024, Cross-Defendants’
counsel stated that he had never received summons on the Cross-Complaint and
intended to file a motion to vacate the default. (Posella Decl., ¶ 15, Exh. K.)
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Vacate must have been filed within six (6) months,
or one hundred and eighty (180) days, from Notice of Entry of Default, or by
Monday, June 17, 2024. Instead, Cross-Defendants’ Motin to Vacate was actually
filed on September 19, 2024, or two hundred and seventy-four (274) days after
Notice of Entry of Default. Based on the foregoing, the instant motion to
vacate is untimely.
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Vacate Entry of Default and Default Judgment is
DENIED based on failure to timely file. However, the Court still considers the
merits of Cross-Defendants’ motion, as discussed below.
 
Motion
to Vacate Entry of Default and Default Judgment Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 473(b) and 473.5
 
            Under both Code of Civil Procedure
§§ 473(b) and 473.5(a), the moving party must establish that their failure to
defend the original action was excusable. Under Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b), the Court may use its discretion to relieve a party from the entry of
default judgment upon a showing that such default was entered “against
him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.” Likewise, under Code
of Civil Procedure § 473.5(b), a party seeking to set aside or vacate a default
judgment pursuant to subdivision
(a) must demonstrate, by sworn affidavit, “that the party’s lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.”
 
            Here, Cross-Defendants’ motion to
vacate is solely based on the contention that they never received actual notice
of the Cross-Complaint entered against them. In Cross-Defendants’ Counsel’s
verified declaration, he states that neither he nor his co-counselor ever
received the purported service by email or physical mail, and he never received
the purported service by electronic facsimile. (Bui Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5.)
 
            However, Cross-Complainants’
Counsel’s declaration establishes that, after he received notice that the
October 17, 2024, email service on Cross-Defendants’ Counsel failed, he
attempted to re-serve Cross-Defendants’ Counsel on October 19, 2024. (Posella Decl.,
¶ 11.) Accordingly, Cross-Complainants’ Counsel did not receive any notice that
such email service failed to send. (Id., ¶ 12.)
 
            Furthermore, even if such email
service had been ineffective, Cross-Defendants’ Counsel’s verified declaration
fails to establish that his lack of actual notice was not based on inexcusable
neglect. As established above, Cross-Complainants filed their Cross-Complaint
upon the signed stipulation of both parties, including Cross-Defendants’
Counsel, dated October 3, 2023. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ Counsel’s claim
that Cross-Complainants’ Counsel’s email that provided Notice of Entry of
Default was “the first time [he] became aware that a Cross-Complaint had been
filed …” cannot be excusable. Cross-Defendant had been put on notice of
Cross-Complainants’ express intent to file a Cross-Complaint and, seemingly,
ignored such intent.
 
            Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Vacate Entry of Default and Default Judgment is DENIED on its merits.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            In all, Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Vacate Entry of Default and Default Judgment is DENIED.