 Case Number:  22STCV39533    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JUSTIN
  BIGGERS,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
RALPHS
  GROCERY COMPANY, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22STCV39533
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: AGS’ MOTION
  FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 31
1:30 p.m.
May 24, 2024



 
Plaintiff Justin Biggers (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Ralphs Grocery Company (“Ralphs”),
The Kroger Co., John Doe, and Does 1-100 for damages arising from allegations
of assault and battery. 
 
Ralphs
filed a cross-complaint against American Guard Services (“AGS”). AGS now moves
for terminating sanctions to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that
Plaintiff failed to comply with the Court’s March 15, 2024 order to serve
verified responses to AGS’ discovery. 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has been entirely absent from this case during the time he has been a
self-represented litigant. Pursuant to CCP section 2023.030, the Court may
impose terminating sanctions “against anyone engaging in conduct that is a
misuse of the discovery process.” As Plaintiff has been absent, he has not
complied with any prior discovery orders imposed by the Court.
 
Based on the foregoing, AGS’ motion
for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff’s complaint is therefore GRANTED. Plaintiff’s
complaint is dismissed.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:

Parties
     are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to
     see if they can reach an agreement.
If
     a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must
     send an email to the court at sscdept31@lacourt.org with
     the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
     the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
     information, and the identity of the party submitting.  
Unless all parties
     submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to
     appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You
     should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  
If
     the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the
     motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the
     Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may
     prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 

 
Dated this 23th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Michelle
  C. Kim
Judge
  of the Superior Court



