 Case Number:  20STCV44434    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VERONICA JOSEPH, ET AL. Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HATHAWAY RECOVERY CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV44434  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION FOR AN ORDER ALLOWING PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE TO BE FILED UNDER SEAL (2) PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 24, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On April 23, 2024, plaintiff Veronica Joseph (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant motion for an order allowing the petition for approval of compromise, pertaining to Kyle Machado, to be filed under seal. The petition sought to be sealed was initially filed on January 10, 2024, in which the Court instructed Plaintiff to tailor the proposed redactions more narrowly. (Min. Order, April 16, 2024.) On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a new petition, and has lodged the unredacted electronic copies with the Court for review.  The motion was again heard on May 17, 2024 and continued to May 24, 2024 to provide Plaintiff the opportunity to lodge an absent document with the Court. (Min. May 17, 2024.) Rather than lodging the settlement agreement with the Court for it to review, Plaintiff instead filed the full unredacted Confidential Settlement Agreement for public view. This appears to defeat the purpose of the motion to seal, in which Plaintiff sought to seal the terms of the settlement and the amount in settlement awarded to Plaintiff in relation to the petition for minor’s compromise. Nonetheless, the Court will rule on the motion.  II. MOTION TO SEAL  Legal Standard California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1) states, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  CRC 2.550(d) makes clear that records cannot be sealed without appropriate findings.  It provides:   The Court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:  (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;  (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;  (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;  (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and  (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)    Discussion  Here, Plaintiff provides the parties reached an agreement that the settlement amount would be subject to confidentiality. Plaintiff has lodged unredacted and redacted copies of the proposed petition to approve compromise and proposed order on Judicial Council form MC-351 (contained as part of MC-350 rather than separately filed). Plaintiff refers to a Settlement Agreement and moves to seal on the grounds that the terms and conditions contain a confidentiality provision.  In Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283, the court considered the issue of whether a confidential settlement agreement can be redacted at length. The Universal court concluded, “We agree with defendant that its contractual obligation not to disclose can constitute an overriding interest within the meaning of rule 243.1(d).” Plaintiff has provided a copy of the Confidential Settlement Agreement, in which the parties expressly agreed that the terms and conditions of that agreement shall remain confidential.  The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored because his motion only concerns the petition for minors’ compromise and Plaintiff has limited the redactions to the sums related to the settlement amount. Because Plaintiff must file a minor’s compromise petition to proceed with settlement, there are no less restrictive means to achieve Plaintiff’s overriding interest. The Court finds that Plaintiff meets the requirements of California Rules of Court Rule 2.550.   Conclusion Plaintiff’s motion to seal the minor’s compromise petition is GRANTED. Moving party is ordered to give notice.    III. PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 05/24/2024 CASE NAME/NUMBER: 20STCV44434 VERONICA JOSEPH, et al. vs HATHAWAY RECOVERY CENTER PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A MINOR Kyle Machado, Age 36 RECOMMENDATION: DENY  TENTATIVE¿ The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.¿ Plaintiffs agreed to settle their claims against Defendant. The Court approved the motion to seal the settlement value on May 24, 2024. As such, that information will not be disclosed in this ruling.  The Court reviews the settlement and finds it fair and reasonable.¿The Court also finds the attorney’s fees fair and reasonable, in that counsel has justified the amount sought from Claimant’s proceeds.   The net settlement is to be transferred to a special needs trust for the benefit of Kyle Machado, an adult with a disability. The discussion regarding the special needs trust is provided below:   NOTICE TO STATE AGENCIES WHEN PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT: When seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health Care Services.  (Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). A proof of service indicates that service and notice is complete.    PLAINTIFF:    Kyle Machado, age 37, Disabled  PETITIONER:    Veronica Joseph, GAL (Appointed 11/30/20)  GROSS AND NET SETTLEMENT (Petition, p. 6, sections 15 and 16f):    Gross XXXX, Net $XXXX  PROPOSED RECIPIENT OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDS (Petition, pp. 8-9, sec. 18): Petitioner proposes to fund the entire net settlement proceeds into a SNT.   An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of calculating benefits eligibility.  On January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and there is no longer a means test for Medi-Cal.  The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change and therefore there might remain a reason for creation and funding of a SNT to maintain other benefits, though the court may wish to inquire of plaintiff’s counsel on this issue.    BRIEFING REGARDING TRUST ISSUES: Petitioner provides briefing regarding trust issue at Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 86.  PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT: Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument at Exhibit A to Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 91.   The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b).  The proposed trust instrument meets those requirements and is ready for approval for creation and/or funding.  ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR RELIEF: Petitioner makes the following additional requests for relief that are beyond those fundamental to the approval and funding of a settlement trust:  Petitioner requests authority for trustee to invest in mutual funds and bonds with maturity dates greater than five years to provide for diversification and a higher rate of investment return.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 88.)  This request would provide for a broader investment authority than the statutory baseline but is common when the trust assets will be large and the investment horizon is long (where plaintiff is fairly young).  The Court will grant this request.  Petitioner requests authority to pay $11,554.50 fees to trust specialist counsel, Susan A. Katzen, for tasks relating to the minor’s settlement trust including drafting of the trust instrument and related portions of this petition.  (Attachment 20, court’s pdf at p. 134, para. 11 and in order at Attachment 13, court’ pdf at p. 176, para. 11.)  The Court will grant this request.  FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT: When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to Probate Code section 3604(b) (there are factual allegations in the Petition to Approve Compromise and its attachments supporting the settlement that generally cover the requisite findings):  The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap; The SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust;  The money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.  The Court will make the requisite findings.  TRUSTEE AND BOND: The proposed initial trustee is Scott Jospeh, plaintiff’s brother.  (Consent to act attached at Exhibit B to Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 121.)  Normally, bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.)  The proposed trustee does not meet the definition of a corporate fiduciary and bond should be required.   Petitioner calculates $247,252 bond in the SNT briefing (court’s pdf at p. 87).  That amount appears to be correct based upon the assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income from investments and any annuity, plus an additional amount required for the costs of any recovery on the bond.  The Court will require $247,252 bond submitted by trustee to this department (which will later be resubmitted to the Probate court in any trust supervision action).       ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:  Proposed Order received stamp date:  A separately-filed proposed order does not appear in the court file.  Petitioner attaches a proposed order as part of Exhibit 20 to the petition (court’s pdf at p. 135).  Petitioner should provide a separate proposed order as the court will not be able to use the proposed order exhibit as the court’s order on this petition.  The order analysis below will address the order at Exhibit 20.   The order is labelled in the caption as “Amended” yet that is only appropriate where there was a prior order then an amended order on a petition.  Here, a revised version of a proposed order is not an “amended” order.  Need correction.    General trust orders are made at Attachment 13, court’s pdf at p. 176. The order contains two separate lists of “findings” at Attachment 8b(2)(a) that the proposed trust instrument meets each of the CRC rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b) requirements.  These “findings” are not necessary or appropriate and they should be removed.   Order requires first trust accounting in one year but does not set a 14 month calendar due date.  Need the addition of an actual 14 moth calendar date at order, Attachment 13, para. 9, which will be picked up by the Probate filing window to set the first OSC re accounting in the trust supervision action. The Court will provide the date to be included in the Order at the hearing on this matter.   Order requires filing of a Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 but does not set an actual due date in 60 days.  Need correction. The Court will provide a date to be included in the Order at the hearing on this matter.  Order sets OSC in this civil department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission of bond, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate.  Need to add date/time/dept in the blanks provided at Attachment 13, para. 14. The Court will provide the dates for inclusion in the Order. ORDERS: Approve settlement, fees, etc.:  yes Approve creation and funding of proposed trust: Yes Make the Probate Code section 3604(b) findings: Yes Require trustee bond: $247,252 Require first trust accounting in one year and set calendar due date for filing in 14 months. Set OSC in civil department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate. Proposed Order: Need submission of separate proposed order containing the corrections noted above.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  