  Case Number:  19STCV23068    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JINING ZHOU, Plaintiff(s), vs.  SAID MOHAMADREZA SIADATAN, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV23068  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 24, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jining Zhou (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Said Mohamadreza Siadatan, Silverado Senior Living, Inc., Shenzhen New World II, LLC dba Sheraton Universal Hotel (“the Sheraton”), Enterprise Rental, and Does 1 through 100 for damages arising a motor vehicle v. pedestrian collision at a parking lot located at 333 Universal Hollywood Dr., Universal City, CA on May 8, 2019. The complaint sets forth two causes of action for (1) negligence against Said Mohamadreza Siadatan, Silverado Senior Living, Inc., and Does 1 through 10, and (2) premises liability against the Sheraton. The Sheraton now moves for summary judgment against the cause of action against it in Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff’s cause of action is barred by the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. Plaintiff, Said M. Siadatan and Silverado Senior Living, Towne Park, LLC (Doe 1), Mile Hi Valet Service, Inc. (Doe 2) oppose the motion. The Sheraton filed a reply.  Preliminary, in terms of the Sheraton’s contention that co-defendants lack standing to oppose its motion, the Sheraton also acknowledges that no published California appellate court case has been found to support this contention. The oppositions filed by co-defendant are substantially the same as Plaintiff’s opposition, and the Court finds no reason to not consider it all together.   II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Opposing parties collectively object to the declarations of Gidon Vardi (“Vardi”) at paragraphs 4, and 5, and the declaration of Tom Beedon (“Beedon”) at paragraphs 2 and 3. The objection to Vardi’s declaration is overruled. Opposing parties do not demonstrate how the difference between a licensed contractor and unlicensed contractor would affect the objective value of work performed based on labor, materials, tools, and equipment used to repair an air conditioning unit. The Court finds Vardi is sufficiently qualified to opine on the industry standard prices and values for HVAC repair issues, and to estimate the value of Plaintiff’s services based on Plaintiff’s deposition detailing the time spent and the specific work performed to repair the air conditioning.  The objection to paragraph 2 of Beedon’s declaration is sustained. Beedon does not provide the foundation for his declaration that the amount the Sheraton would pay Plaintiff would exceed $500. The objection to paragraph 3 of Beedon’s declaration is overruled; this is in conjunction with the Sheraton’s proof of workers’ compensation provided as evidence in the reply.   III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT A. Legal Standard  A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 0159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) B. Analysis Re: Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity Rule 1. The Sheraton’s Moving Burden As To Whether Plaintiff Was An Employee The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.’ [Citation.]”  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) As in any negligence action, whether a duty was owed under the facts is a question of law for the court. (Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.)    The [Workers’ Compensation Act] provides the exclusive remedy for an injury sustained by an employee in the course and scope of employment. (Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3602, subd. (a); Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 813, 102 Cal.Rptr.2d 562, 14 P.3d 234 (Vacanti).) The workers’ compensation exclusivity rule is based on the “presumed ‘compensation bargain’ ” in which, in exchange for limitations on the amount of liability, the employer assumes liability regardless of fault for injury arising out of and in the course of employment. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 16, 276 Cal.Rptr. 303, 801 P.2d 1054.) The compensation bargain encompasses both psychological and physical injury arising out of and in the course of the employment. (Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3208.3.)   (Shirvanyan v. Los Angeles Community College Dist. (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 82, 105.)  Ordinarily, an employee's rights against his or her employer for on-the-job injuries lie solely under the workers' compensation law. Here, the following facts are undisputed. On May 8, 2019, Plaintiff was engaged in work at a construction site in Diamond Bar when he received a call from Sheraton’s hotel manager that the AC in the hotel was not working. Plaintiff had three major jobs going on with Sheraton, a Diamond Bar construction site, and his own individual work. For work previously performed for Sheraton, Plaintiff’s practice is to invoice Sheraton at the end of the job. On May 8, 2019, Plaintiff brought two additional workers with him to the Sheraton for the AC repair, in which Plaintiff cut materials and began to weld them together. Neither Plaintiff nor his company “Intelligent Designer Contract, Inc.” are found on the Contractors State License Board.  The Sheraton argues Plaintiff was required to have a contractor license because Plaintiff had determined the structure on the rooftop was rotted enough that it had to be replaced completely, and that the objective value of the labor, materials, and items for the air conditioning repair work exceeded $500. In support thereof, the Sheraton furnishes the affidavit of Gidon Vardi, Ph.D. (“Vardi”), a licensed contractor and construction consultant. Vardi opines that contract price for the work Plaintiff described in his deposition would be no less than $1,500. (Vardi Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) As such, the Sheraton contends Plaintiff was not exempt from licensure due to contract price exceeding $500. (B&P § 7048.) The Sheraton contends California Code of Regulations Title 16, Division 8, Article 3 has mandated licensure requirements for a Welding Contractor (C-60 license) and for Warm-Air Heating, Ventilating and Air-Conditioning Contractor (C-20 license) for anyone who maintains, services, and repairs air conditioning systems complete with air conditioning unit. The Sheraton asserts Plaintiff was required two licenses for the work performed on May 8, 2019, but Plaintiff was unlicensed to perform the work for Sheraton.  Labor Code 2750.5 provides in part:  “There is a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or who is performing such services for a person who is required to obtain such a license is an employee rather than an independent contractor. Proof of independent contractor status includes satisfactory proof of these factors: ...” […] The penultimate paragraph of section 2750.5 states: “In addition to the factors contained in subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), any person performing any function or activity for which a license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code shall hold a valid contractors' license as a condition of having independent contractor status.” (Blew v. Horner (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1380, 1385.)   The Supreme Court has interpreted this statute to provide that ‘the person lacking the requisite license may not be an independent contractor.’”  (Mendoza v. Brodeur (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 72, 77 [Citations omitted].)  Accordingly, a property owner that hires an unlicensed contractor to perform work is presumed to be the person’s employer. (Ibid (Mendoza); Cedillo v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 227, 235 [“the hirer of a contractor for a job requiring a license is the statutory employer of the unlicensed contractor”].)   Further, the Sheraton provides the declaration of its general manager, who declares that the Sheraton had workers’ compensation insurance with Sompo International Insurance (Policy No. WCDS1004E0) that would apply to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Beedon Decl. ¶ 3.) (Mendoza, 142 Cal.App.4th. at 80-81; see Rosas v. Dishong (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 815, 820-22 [If an employee does not qualify or receive workers’ compensation coverage, a property owner can be liable for general tort damages to an unlicensed person hired by the owner to perform work that requires a license.].) Therefore, the Sheraton has met its prima facie burden that it had employed an unlicensed contractor for work that required a contractor license, such that Plaintiff is an employee subject to the Workers Compensation Act.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact in this regard.   2. Plaintiff’s Shifted Burden As To Whether He Was An Employee  Paragraph of Labor Code § 2750.5 states in pertinent part that “any person performing any function or activity for which a license is required … shall hold a valid contractors' license as a condition of having independent contractor status.”  (Blew, 187 Cal.App.3d at 1385.)  “In other words, under the statute, the presumption of employee status can be rebutted only as to persons who hold a valid contractor's license; the presumption cannot be rebutted as to persons who do not hold a valid contractor's license.” (Chin v. Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 994, 1004.)  Labor Code § 2750.5, thus, creates a “conclusive presumption of employee status,” which “applies to any unlicensed subcontractor.”  (Neighbours v. Buzz Oates Enterprises (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 325, 328.)  “Section 2750.5's conclusive presumption of employee status for an unlicensed contractor … is dependent upon only one factor—failure to secure the requisite license.”  (Id. at 331; see also Cedillo v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 227, 233 [“the presumption that the person who employs the unlicensed contractor is the employer is conclusive.”].) Because it is undisputed by the parties that Plaintiff did not have a contractor license at the time of the incident, the presumption of his employee status cannot be rebutted.  Thus, Plaintiff must raise a triable issue of material fact that this incident falls outside the Workers Compensation Act by other means. Plaintiff first argues that the Sheraton failed to comply with Labor Code Section 5401, which requires the employer to personally or by first-class mail, provide a claim a form and notice of potential eligibility for benefits to the injured employee upon one working day of receiving notice or knowledge of the injury. Plaintiff argues Sheraton’s representative visited him in the hospital during his 10-day admission resulting from the accident, and that the Sheraton did not provide him notice of his workers’ compensation eligibility despite having actual notice of his injuries. However, Plaintiff does not provide any authority that the effect of the failure to give timely notice of eligibility would, in effect, exempt Plaintiff from the workers compensation scheme. Rather, if an employer breaches its statutory duty to provide to the employee a claim form and a notice of potential eligibility for workers' compensation benefits within one working day of receiving notice or knowledge of injury, “the limitations period is tolled for the period of time that the employee remains unaware of his rights.” (Truck Ins. Exch. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2016) 2 Cal. App. 5th 394, 397.) Additionally, “ “No tolling occurs if the employee has actual knowledge of his rights before the employer's breach. The employer has the burden of proving when the injured employee gained actual knowledge of his workers' compensation rights. The employee must know that he may be entitled to relevant benefits under the workers' compensation system.” [Citations].” (California Ins. Guarantee Assn. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2008) 163 Cal. App. 4th 853, 860.) As such, a failure to abide by the statutorily required notice does not create a triable issue of material fact as to whether Plaintiff’s sole remedy is within the Workers’ Compensation Act.  Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Beedon’s and Vardi’s declarations lack proof for the value of Plaintiff’s services, and that there exists a triable issue of material fact as to the value of Plaintiff’s work. The Court sustained the objection to Beedon’s declaration in terms of the service value, but overruled the objection to Vardi’s declaration because he has established sufficient foundation and qualification for his opinion. However, notably Plaintiff does not provide any opposing affidavit or opposing evidence that the value of his work on the date of the incident is less than $500 to have exempted him from a licensure requirement. Further, Plaintiff does not dispute the Sheraton’s contention that he was mandated to have a C-60 license for welding work, and a C-20 license for work on the air conditioning unit. As such, Plaintiff has not created a triable issue of material fact regarding exemption from a licensure requirement for the type of work performed on the date of the incident. An “opposition to summary judgment will be deemed insufficient when it is essentially conclusionary, argumentative or based on conjecture and speculation.” (Buehler v. Alpha Beta Company (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 729, 733.) Plaintiff also argues that Beedon could not find Shenzhen New World II, LLC as a named insured under the insurance policy notwithstanding his affidavit that it has workers compensation insurance that would cover Plaintiff’s claims. In response, the Sheraton provides that in response to the March 18, 2024 discovery requests to it, that it produced the complete policy to all parties, including the Endorsement with Effective Date of March 1, 2019 (before Plaintiff’s May 8, 2019 injury) that states: "Named Insureds is amended to read:" and listing "Shen Zhen New World II LLC DBA: Sheraton Universal Hotel" as a named insured. (Reply Decl. Lee ¶¶ 2-4; Exhs. 1 and 2.) Thus, the Sheraton has proven that it maintained workers’ compensation insurance for the applicable period.  C. Waiver Plaintiff argues that the Sheraton has waived its right to assert the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. However, Plaintiff does not provide any factual support for this contention of waiver. Here, the Sheraton filed an Answer to this lawsuit filed by Plaintiff, and asserted as an affirmative defense that Workers’ Compensation is Plaintiff’s sole and exclusive remedy. (The Sheraton’s Answer at ¶ 14.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the Sheraton relinquished its intent to enforce the exclusivity rule when the motion is consistent with the affirmative defense pled in its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.   D. Estoppel Plaintiff argues the Sheraton is estopped from claiming workers’ compensation exclusivity because Plaintiff did not receive a workers’ compensation claim, and he was unaware of his right to make such a claim due to lack of notice. “Whenever a party has, by his own statement or conduct, intentionally and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing true and to act upon such belief, he is not, in any litigation arising out of such statement or conduct, permitted to contradict it.”  (Evid. Code § 623.)  “Four elements must ordinarily be proved to establish an equitable estoppel: (1) The party to be estopped must know the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting the estoppel had the right to believe that it was so intended; (3) the party asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and, (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” (Hopkins v. Kedzierski (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 736, 756 [internal quotations omitted].) As previously stated, a lack of notice in itself does not remove Plaintiff from the workers’ compensation scheme. Further, this contention of estoppel is conclusory, and Plaintiff has not established the requisite elements of estoppel.  “The essence of an estoppel is that the party to be estopped has by false language or conduct ‘led another to do that which he would not otherwise have done and as a result thereof that he has suffered injury.’ [Citation.]” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 5, 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146 (Meier ).) In the absence of a representation by the contractor that he or she is licensed, there can be no estoppel. (Meier, supra, at p. 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146; see also Travelers Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1033, 1038, 195 Cal.Rptr. 564 (Travelers ) [same].)  …  Whether a party's conduct estops it from taking a particular legal position usually, though not always, involves a factual determination. “The existence of an estoppel is generally a question of fact, and the party relying on the estoppel must prove all of the elements.” (Meier, supra, 40 Cal.3d at pp. 19–20, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146.) Occasionally, a court may rule on estoppel as a matter of law. (See General Accident Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1149, 55 Cal.Rptr.2d 272.) (Chin v. Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 994, 1004-1006.) Relevant factors include the nature of the worker's initial disclosure and the hirer's initial inquiry, the parties' expectations, the nature and length of the relationship between worker and hirer, and custom and practice in the industry, among others, and in some cases, oral representation of a valid license status may require further investigation or even written proof depending on the circumstances. (Id. at 1007.) Here, Plaintiff has not proven all the elements of estoppel to create a triable issue of material fact in this regard. (Lee v. Board of Administration (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d 122, 135 [“estoppel will not be applied where it is based on surmise or questionable inference.”].)  E. Unclean Hands Plaintiff argues unclean hands by citing to case law, but provides no specific facts or actual arguments in this regard. Unclean hands is a fact dependent determination. (Crosstalk Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal. App.4th 631.)  “The misconduct that brings the unclean hands doctrine into play must relate directly to the cause at issue. Past improper conduct or prior misconduct that only indirectly affects the problem before the court does not suffice.” (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltc. v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 979; see also Pond v. Insurance Co. of North America (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 280, 290 [“The actions of the party alleged to have soiled hands must relate ‘directly to the transaction concerning which the complaint is made; i.e., it must pertain to the very subject matter involved and affect the equitable relations between the litigants.’ ”].) Plaintiff has not demonstrated how the Sheraton’s defense pertaining to the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule is unconscionable.  Plaintiff, therefore, fails to show the doctrine of unclean hands would bar the Sheraton’s affirmative defense as pled.     IV. CONCLUSION  The Sheraton’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   