 Case Number:  24PSCV00166    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Heavenstone
Corporation v. Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP, et al. 
1
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admission (Set One);
2
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation’s Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One);
3
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One);
4
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation’s Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set
One);
5
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Deem Admitted
Requests for Admission (Set Two);
6
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One); and
7
– Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation’s Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set
Two) 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s
discovery motions. Plaintiff Heavenstone Corporation must provide code
compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant Ecoff Campaign Tilles
& Kay, LLP’s Special Interrogatories (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Sets
One and Two), and Request for Production of Documents (Sets One and Two),
within 20 days of the Court’s order. The Court hereby DEEMS the truth of the
matters specified in Request for Admissions (Sets One and Two) admitted and
conclusively established as to Plaintiff Heavenstone Corporation. The Court
further GRANTS Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $4,420.00. Plaintiff and its
attorney of record must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant
Ecoff Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
            Defendant Ecoff Campaign Tilles
& Kay, LLP is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a legal services related lawsuit. On January 16, 2024, plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Ecoff
Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP (Law Firm), Lawrence C. Ecoff (Ecoff), Kevin T.
Kay (Kay) (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of
action for legal malpractice, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of
contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and civil
conspiracy to commit fraud. On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (FAC)[1] against Defendants, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, contractual fraud, breach of
implied covenant of fiduciary duty, and civil conspiracy to commit fraud. 
On August 30, 2024, Defendant Law Firm moved to compel initial
responses to various written discovery requests against Plaintiff.[2] On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the two motions to deem requests for
admissions admitted. Plaintiff did not oppose the other motions. On October 1,
2024, Defendant Law Firm replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a party fails to serve a
timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories
may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection,
including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
When a party fails to serve a
timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move
for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives
any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
When a party fails to serve a
timely response to a request for admission, the party propounding the request
for admission may move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely
response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order,
unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been
directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to
the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section  2033.220. It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES 
            The Court notes that the two
oppositions Plaintiff filed on September 30, 2024, were untimely. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The
Court exercises its discretion to still consider the oppositions, but
admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez
v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing
motions to compel, the Court appreciates Defendant Law Firm’s efforts to meet
and confer before bringing this motion. (Smith Decls., ¶ 3; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404; Dept. 6 Courtroom Information.) 
            Analysis 
            Defendant
Law Firm contends it served various written discovery requests on Plaintiff on
May 31, 2024. (Smith Decls., ¶ 2.) Law Firm contends that Plaintiff has failed
to provide responses, despite Law Firm granting Plaintiff an extension. (Smith
Decls., ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff’s oppositions concede that it did not serve
responses to the requests for admissions, but states that responses will be
provided prior to the hearing. (Vega Decls., ¶¶ 2-4.) Plaintiff did not oppose
the other motions, which the Court construes as further admissions that
Plaintiff did not provide any responses. (Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;
C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation]”].) The Court finds Law Firm’s motions well taken.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Law Firm’s motions unless Plaintiff has in fact
served verified responses without objections. 
            The Court GRANTS
Law Firm’s requests for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,060.00
for the first of the seven motions, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing the motion
and appearing at the hearings on the motions, and $560.00 for the other six
motions, comprised of 1.0 hour preparing the motion, multiplied by the reduced
hourly rate of $500.00, plus $60.00 for each motion filing fee, for a grand
total of $4,420.00. Plaintiff must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for
Law Firm within 30 days of the Court’s ruling. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s
discovery motions. Plaintiff Heavenstone Corporation must provide code
compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant Ecoff Campaign Tilles
& Kay, LLP’s Special Interrogatories (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Sets
One and Two), and Request for Production of Documents (Sets One and Two),
within 20 days of the Court’s order. The Court hereby DEEMS the truth of the
matters specified in Request for Admissions (Sets One and Two) admitted and
conclusively established as to Plaintiff Heavenstone Corporation. The Court
further GRANTS Defendant Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $4,420.00. Plaintiff and its
attorney of record must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant
Ecoff Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
            Defendant Ecoff Campaign Tilles
& Kay, LLP is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order.


