  Case Number:  21STCV31632    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Nicholas
Muso, et al. v. Sevadham Management, LP, et al.
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against Defendant Sevadham Management, LP and
Defendant’s Counsel of Record 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES
Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions against Sevadham. However, Defendant Sevadham is ordered to comply with this Court's June 7, 2024 and August 6, 2024 orders within 30 days of this order.
Defendant Sevadham is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an elder abuse and wrongful death action. On August 26,
2021, plaintiff Patricia Muso, individually and as representative of decedent Nicholas
Muso (collectively, Plaintiffs), filed this action against defendants Sevadham
Management, LP dba Mountain View Centers Claremont Memory Care (Sevadham), Does
1 through 25, plus Nicholas Anthony Muso and Kathryn Muso as nominal
defendants, alleging causes of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect,
violation of patient rights, negligence, and wrongful death. 
On September 3, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for terminating sanctions
against Sevadham. On September 26, 2024, Sevadham opposed the motion. Plaintiffs
did not reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The court is
authorized, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, to impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, terminating
sanctions, and contempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.030, subds. (a)-(e).) A terminating
sanction may be imposed by an order dismissing the action of the party that
brought the action. (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(3).)   
“The
discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination. [Citation.]” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992; see J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction
fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted. (Doppes, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) “Discovery sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed what is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but
denied discovery.’” (Ibid.) “But where a violation is willful, preceded
by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would
not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified
in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid., quoting Mileikowsky v. Tenet
Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279–280); Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702,
quoting Doppes and Mileikowsky.)   
The court
should consider the totality of the circumstances, including conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful, the determent to the
propounding party, and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly, but are justified where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and there is evidence
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) 
Before any
sanctions may be imposed the court must make an express finding that there has
been a willful failure of the party to serve the required discovery responses.
(Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) The party who failed to comply with discovery obligations
has the burden of showing that the failure was not willful. (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Cornwall v. Santa Monica Dairy
Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.)  
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivisions (d) and (f), provide that a misuse of
the discovery process includes, but is not limited to, “[f]ailing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery” and “[m]aking
an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d),
(f).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
The Court appreciates Plaintiffs’ efforts to meet and confer with
Sevadham before bringing this motion. (Oghassabian Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.) 
            Summary of Arguments 
            Plaintiffs move for terminating
sanctions on the grounds that Sevadham has failed to comply with the Court’s
order dated June 7, 2024, in which the Court ordered Sevadham to provide
responses to Plaintiffs’ various discovery requests. Plaintiffs indicate that
they gave notice of that ruling to Sevadham, but that Sevadham still has not
provided the responses. Plaintiffs contend terminating sanctions are warranted
because the lesser sanctions have not resulted in Sevadham’s compliance.
Plaintiffs contend this case cannot progress until Sevadham provides the
requested discovery that is exclusively in Sevadham’s custody and control and
that they are otherwise greatly disadvantaged in evaluating and litigating
their claims. 
Plaintiffs contend there is no excuse or justification for
Sevadham’s refusal to produce responses as the Court ordered. Plaintiffs
contend it is evident Sevadham will not cooperate, and that they have incurred
substantial costs and attorney fees in connection with their motion to compel
discovery. Plaintiffs contend they are particularly prejudiced by Sevadham’s
willful disregard of the discovery process as they are unable to identify or
test any evidence Sevadham plans to rely on. Plaintiffs further contend that
lesser sanctions will not adequately address the prejudice to Plaintiffs, and
that terminating sanctions are therefore appropriate. 
In
opposition, counsel for Sevadham indicates that he and his family have
encountered a series of health challenges over this past year that have
disrupted his law practice. Sevadham indicates that it intends to serve proper
responses and requests a short extension to do so. Sevadham indicates that
there was no intentional delay in the late responses, as such delay is due to
counsel for Sevadham’s personal and family medical issues. Sevadham requests
that the Court not impose sanctions, or to alternatively impose lesser
sanctions than evidentiary, issue, or terminating sanctions. 
Analysis 
The
Court finds that terminating sanctions are not warranted at this time. The
Court accepts the explanation of counsel for Sevadham regarding his personal
and family medical problems over the past year as the cause of disruption to
his law practice. (Weiser Decl., ¶¶ 2-42.) As such, the imposition of
terminating sanctions here would unduly punish Sevadham for what appears to be
solely its counsel’s fault. Therefore, the Court does not find that Sevadham’s
failures to comply with its discovery obligations were willful or intentional. (Doppes,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992; Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los
Angeles County, supra, 246 Cal.App.2d at p. 118.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES
Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions against Sevadham. 
Defendant Sevadham is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order. However, Defendant Sevadham is ordered to comply with this Court's June 7, 2024 and August 6, 2024 orders within 30 days of this order.