  Case Number:  21GDCV01154    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  X DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint.     
 
Plaintiff brings this action against Defendant Koulax
Enterprises seeking only to recover PAGA civil penalties for herself, and on
behalf of all current and former aggrieved employees that worked for Defendant.
 Plaintiff’s FAC states she does not seek
to recover anything other than penalties as permitted by California Labor Code
§ 2699.  To the extent that statutory
violations are mentioned for wage violations, Plaintiff does not seek
underlying general and/or special damages for those violations, but simply the
civil penalties permitted by California Labor Code § 2699.
 
The first
amended complaint alleges that Koulax violated various California labor laws
with respect to its non-exempt employees, including failure to pay minimum and
overtime wages, failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to provide
accurate itemized statements, and failure to reimburse for required expenses.  The class is defined as all non-exempt
employees of Koulax Enterprises in California during the class period—which is
4 years prior to the filing of the original complaint.  The amount in controversy for the aggregate
claim of the class members is under $5 million.
 
Tentative
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the first through eighth causes of
action is OVERRULED and motion to strike references to class actions is DENIED.

 
Requests for Judicial
Notice 
 
Defendant’s Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant
requests the Court to take judicial notice of Exhibit AA, the Declaration of
Koulax’s Human Resources Manager Andy Trujillo, with an attached Exhibit A,
which Trujillo attests is a copy of the Alternative Dispute Resolution
Agreement executed by Plaintiff—whose initials appear after each substantive
paragraph.  The Trujillo Declaration was
filed with the Court in the instant case on March 15, 2023, in
support of Koulax’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
Exhibit B is the docket in the instant case, as of March 7,
2024. 
 
Exhibit C is the memorandum of points and authorities in
support of Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint. 
 
Exhibit D is a copy of an Amended Order Granting Final
Approval of Class Action Settlement and Judgment, in the San Bernardino County
case Brito v. Koulax, dba Tommy’s Hamburgers, Case No. CIVDS1930872.
 
The requests for judicial notice are GRANTED as to all
exhibits.  Evidence Code section
452(d)(1) authorizes the taking of judicial notice of the official records of
any court of this state.
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff
requests the Court to take judicial notice of Exhibit 1, a copy of the Court’s
November 2, 2023 Minute Order in this action.  The request is GRANTED.  (See Evid. Code, § 452(d)(1).)
 
Legal Analysis
 
Defendant’s Demurrer

Defendant’s amended
demurrer states the demur is to the class action portion (first through eighth
causes of action) of the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff expressly waived her
right to bring a class action. 
 
Further, the
demurrer states a prior class action was brought against Koulax in
October 2019, in the matter of Brito v. Koulax, dba Tommy’s Hamburgers,
Case No. CIVDS1930872 (“Brito”), which resulted in a class action settlement
approved by the court in October 2022 and which provided that the settlement
subsumed current and past non-exempt California employees of Koulax who had
worked for the company in California from October 15, 2015, to June 7, 2021
(“Brito Class Period”) and who had not signed an arbitration agreement with
Koulax (“Brito Settlement”).  Defendant
asserts Plaintiff’s instant case proposes an overlapping settlement which would
subsume non-exempt employees for a period starting four years before the filing
of the original Complaint in the instant case, which was on or about September
8, 2021 to a date as defined by the Court (“Class Period”).  However, Defendant argues, Plaintiff cannot
seek monies on behalf of non-exempt employees during the Brito Class Period for
the class claims already adjudicated for such employees – employees who did not
sign an arbitration agreement while in the employ of Koulax.
 
Standing
Defendant
contends Plaintiff lacks standing to bring a class claim. “‘Standing is a jurisdictional issue
that … must be established in some appropriate manner.’  [Citation.]”  (Reynolds v. City of Calistoga (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 865, 871 [citing Chiatello v. City and County of San
Francisco (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 472, 480].)  Jurisdiction is therefore a proper ground for
a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10(a).)  Defendant’s primary argument
is that Plaintiff Breann Howard executed an employment agreement with Koulax
Enterprises which includes a class action waiver, so she lacks standing to sue
as a class representative.  Defendant
argues the waiver is valid and enforceable as class arbitration waivers are not
unconscionable and are enforceable under the FAA.  Defendant also argues that the arbitration
clause in the agreement is severable from the rest of the agreement.  That is, even if the arbitration clause is
found to be unenforceable, the class action waiver and other provisions of the
agreement would remain valid and binding.  Defendant also argues that in Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (RJN, Exh. C), Plaintiff
implicitly acknowledged the existence of the agreement and the fact that it
prohibited class actions. 
 
Turning to the facts
in the pleading, the FAC specifically pleads: 
 
“3. PLAINTIFF
was employed by DEFENDANT in California as a non-exempt employee entitled to
overtime pay and meal and rest periods from May of 2019 to January of 24 2021.
[…]
 
4. PLAINTIFF brings this Class
Action on behalf of herself and a California class, defined as all persons who
are or previously were employed by DEFENDANT in California and classified as
non-exempt employees (the “CALIFORNIA CLASS”) at any time during the period
beginning four (4) years prior to the filing of the original Complaint and
ending on the date as determined by the Court (the “CLASS PERIOD”).”
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
The FAC contains no
mention of an employment agreement where Plaintiff waived her right to a class
action.  The Court must assume the truth
of properly pleaded factual allegations, and Plaintiff has alleged she was a
non-exempt employee and brings the class action on behalf of herself and other
non-exempt employees. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that Defendant materially breached the
arbitration agreement, which excuses Plaintiff from any further performance
under the agreement.  Plaintiff contends
Defendant’s arguments about the severability clause and the Plaintiff waiving
her right to bring class claims are baseless and unsupported by any authority.  Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s
demurrer on the grounds of a prior settlement is irrelevant. 
 
In
reply, Defendant argues the question is when the waiver took effect.  It asserts the waiver took effect the moment
Plaintiff signed the agreement including the express waiver, and then proceeded
in employment with Defendant for years.  Separately,
Defendant asserts the class action waiver paragraph is separate from the
arbitration clauses and should be allowed to stand on its own.  Lastly, Defendant mentions the previous Brito
settlement not only overlaps with the proposed class action but covers the
entire period during which Plaintiff was no longer employed with Defendant,
plus Plaintiff signed the agreement with arbitration and class waivers. Thus,
Defendant argues, Plaintiff shares no commonality or typicality with those she
purports to attempt to represent as a class representative. 
 
As
demonstrated by the FAC and the moving, opposition, and reply papers,
Plaintiff’s waiver of her right to a class action is a contested issue.  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.”  (Serrano v. Priest
(1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  The Court
must accept as true the FAC’s allegations.  The FAC has pleaded adequate facts to support
Plaintiff’s class claims in the first through eighth causes of action.  Ultimately, the waiver of Plaintiff’s right to
a class action is a question of fact that the Court cannot resolve on demurrer.

 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The Court may, in its discretion and upon a motion to strike
by defendant: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading, or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
435-436.)  The matter must appear on the
face of the complaint or be subject to judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Defendant
moves to strike the class action allegations and references in the FAC on
similar grounds as Defendant’s arguments in the demurrer.  Given the above discussion regarding the
demurrer, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the first through eighth causes of
action is OVERRULED and motion to strike references to class actions is DENIED.

 