 Case Number:  24NNCV01005    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  X CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCEThe Court has reviewed the Case Management Statement filed by Defendant.No Case Management Statement has been filed by Plaintiff.No jury fees have been posted.The Court continues the Case Management Conference to February 3, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.  The parties are ordered to comply with California Rules of Court and the Court’s Local Rules concerning preparation for and participation in the Case Management Conference.Counsel for Defendant is to give notice unless waived by the parties.DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKEDefendant demurs to the Complaint’s fourth and fifth causes of action, and moves to strike references to punitive damages.This is a lemon law case arising from Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt in 2021.  The complaint alleges five causes of action: (1) breach of express warranty (Song-Beverly), (2) breach of implied warranty (Song-Beverly), (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, (4) fraud, and (5) violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200.Tentative RulingDefendant’s demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  The motion to strike is DENIED as moot.Legal AnalysisFourth Cause of Action – FraudDefendant GM argues the fourth cause of action (fraud) fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against GM. Defendant asserts the complaint fails to plead fraud for the Fourth Cause of Action and the “fraud prong” of the UCL claim for the fifth cause of action with the requisite specificity.  That is, Plaintiff does not present well-pleaded facts specifying the how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the alleged “fraud” occurred; Plaintiff fails to allege facts plausibly showing that Defendant knew of and intentionally misrepresented or concealed any material facts before Plaintiff bought the vehicle; Plaintiff cannot base any fraudulent misrepresentation claim on Defendant’s publication of EPA estimates; Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claims are barred both by the economic loss rule and also because Plaintiff failed to allege a transactional relationship with Defendant—i.e. that the Subject Vehicle or express warranty was purchased directly from Defendant—so as to trigger any duty to disclose.  Further, Defendant argues the “unfair” prong of the UCL claim also fails because Plaintiff does not identify breach of any established public policy by GM, nor claim that GM’s conduct is immoral, unethical, oppressive, or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.In opposition, Plaintiff details allegations that Defendant was aware of issues with Bolt’s battery as early as December 2016, including the risk of spontaneous ignition due to overcharging.  Despite this knowledge, Plaintiff alleges, Defendant continued to market the Bolt as an affordable, long-range, and safe vehicle, even running commercials in January 2017 highlighting the battery’s range.  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant created several programs in 2017 and 2018 to address the battery and software issues, and became aware of the first Bolt battery fire in March 2019.  By August 2020, Plaintiff alleges, Defendant was aware of at least 12 Bolt battery fires; in October 2020, NHTSA opened an investigation into the vehicle.  Despite this knowledge, Plaintiff alleges Defendant did not disclose any of this information to them when they purchased the vehicle.  Furthermore, Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s Vice-President Steve Hill promised the plaintiff a battery replacement in December 2021, but in June 2023, Plaintiff was informed that his vehicle would only receive software updates to cap the battery charge at 80%, rather than a full battery replacement.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant knowingly allowed them to purchase a vehicle with a risk of catching fire and failed to properly address the issue.In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s opposition contains no clarity on the exact terms and conditions, or timeline, of the promise made.  Further, Defendant asserts, no facts alleged in the opposition demonstrate that Defendant intended to deceive Plaintiff at the time of the transactions, and thus the allegations fail to provide a clear and specific basis for Plaintiff’s fraud claim.“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198, internal citations omitted.) The complaint does not sufficiently plead intent.  The complaint alleges that Defendant’s marketing statements about the vehicle having long range capability and being environmentally friendly and safe were representations that Defendant knew were false and intended Plaintiff to rely on.  (Compl., ¶¶ 91-93.)  The complaint alleges “Defendant intended for Plaintiff to rely on these representations, as evidenced by Defendant’s advertising which stresses the long range of each vehicle.”  (Compl., ¶ 101.)  Yet these statements attributed to Defendant in paragraphs 91, 95-96 are not sufficiently particular to warrant intent to induce Plaintiffs to rely on those statements by concealing the alleged defects.  Since intent to induce reliance is an element of fraud, that is a fatal defect in the complaint.  The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. Fifth Cause of Action – Bus. Profs. Code 17200Defendant challenges the fifth cause of action on the basis that the “unfair prong” fails because Plaintiff does not reference any established public policy that Defendant's actions violated. Defendant cites to McKell v. Washington Mutual (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473 for the proposition that “[a] business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.”  Defendant then submits that Plaintiff “does not cite any established public policy that GM’s actions have violated or claim that the conduct is immoral, unethical, oppressive, or unscrupulous.”  Based on the Court’s review, the “unfair” section of the fifth cause of action is inadequately pleaded and the demurrer to this cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.Motion to StrikeAs stated above, the Court agrees that the fourth and fifth causes of action are improperly pled, and sustained the Demurrer with leave to amend.  The motion to strike is, therefore, denied as moot considering the ruling on the Demurrer which grants Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint.Moving Party is to give notice unless waived by the parties.