 Case Number:  22STCV33876    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Manjit Singh’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.                  
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Manjit
Singh (Defendant) moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff Worldwide ATM, Inc.’s
only cause of action for breach of contract on several grounds. Defendant
contends that the contract at issue, for the installment of an ATM on
Defendant’s premises, is unenforceable and unconscionable. (Motion at pp.
8–14.) Defendant argues that there was no breach the contract to maintain an
ATM on the premises, because Defendant only turned off the ATM after sending a
notice of non-renewal before the expiration of the contract term, and if the
notice was not timely under the contract this was immaterial because time was
not of the essence. (Motion at pp. 14–17.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff
cannot show damages resulting from the breach, and has further failed to serve
responses to Defendant’s discovery. 
 
Defendant’s
arguments on the enforceability of the contract and the lack of damages are
unpersuasive. Defendant argues that the contract is not entitled a “contract,”
that it does not define “month,” that it defines “transaction” but not
“eligible transaction,” and that the auto-renewal provision is included under a
heading marked “Exclusivity.” (Motion at pp. 10–11.) But these terms are
susceptible to interpretation according to their ordinary, reasonable meanings.
And while Defendant makes some case for procedural unconscionability — this was
a form contract drafted by Plaintiff in English, and Defendant is not fluent in
English — there is no indication that Defendant, a business owner, was
under any pressure to sign the agreement for the placement of an ATM in his
store, or that any provision of the agreement would create oppression or
surprise. (See Ajamian v. CantorCO2e (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)
Nor can Plaintiff make an argument as to lack of damages resulting from breach,
because Plaintiff targets a different breach than that identified in the
Complaint. The Complaint states that Defendant breached the agreement by
turning off the ATM in October 2021. (Complaint ¶ 10.) But Defendant focuses on
damages resulting from his untimely service or notice of non-renewal in August
of that year. (Motion at p. 20.) The Complaint makes no issue of Defendant’s
untimely service.
 
However, Defendant’s
argument as to breach is persuasive. Plaintiff’s allegations of breach depend
upon the contract being in effect in October 2021, after auto-renewing on
September 1, 2021. The contract’s provision governing auto-renewal states as
follows:
 
This agreement shall be for a term of five
years from the date of installation. Upon the expiration of the Initial term.
this Agreement will automatically renew for an additional term of equal length,
each on the same terms and conditions as provided herein, unless written notice
by certified mail Is given at least 1 month prior to expiration of the first
term.
 
(Motion Exh. 1.) The
contract is dated September 1, 2016, and the date of renewal was September 1,
2021, meaning that notice of non-renewal would have to have been sent by August
1, 2021, under the contract. Defendant sent a number of written notices of non-renewal
prior to September 1: an email dated July 13, 2021; another dated August 1,
2021; and a written notice sent by first-class mail on August 17, 2021. (Motion
Exhs. 2–4.) Thus the first qualifying notice of non-renewal was sent on August
17, less than a month before the renewal date, although notice of intent not to
renew had previously been sent by email. 
 
[T[he prescribing a day at or
before which, or a period within which, an act must be done, even with a
stipulation that it shall be done at or before the day named  does not render the time essential with
respect to such an act. The general rule in equity is that time is not of the
essence unless it has been made so by its express terms or is necessarily so
from the nature of the contract.. . . . [T]he intent to make a particular date,
or time, the essence of the contract must be clearly, unequivocally and
unmistakably shown by an express declaration.  In order to render time thus essential, it
must be clearly and expressly stipulated that it shall be so; it is not enough
that a time is mentioned during which or before which something shall be done.
(Alfinito v. Sater (1966)
246 Cal.App.2d 362, 379, internal citations and quotations marks omitted.)
 
Here, Defendant has presented
evidence that he sent notice of his intent not to renew prior to the appointed
time, and written notice by mail after the appointed time. However, this
belated service was still prior to the renewal period of the contract, and no
portion of the contract indicates that time was of the essence with respect to
the deadline at issue. Accordingly, Defendant has shown the absence of a
triable issue of fact as to whether the contract was in effect in October 2021,
when the alleged breach occurred. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to this
motion.
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.