  Case Number:  21STCV23857    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Yvette Villalba’s Petitions to Approve Minor’s Compromise for Plaintiffs Zachary
Cuevas and Richard Cuevas are GRANTED, subject to the court’s modifications.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.                  
PETITION
FOR MINOR’S COMPROMISE
Minors or people without legal
capacity to make decisions must appear in court by a guardian, conservator of
the estate, or guardian ad litem. (Code Civ. Proc. § 372, subd. (a)(1).) Such
person appearing in court on behalf of the minor or person without capacity has
the power to compromise the claims of the represented person, “with the
approval of the court.” (Ibid.) The requirement of court approval exists
“to protect the best interests of the minor.” (Pearson v. Superior Court
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1338.) 
“A petition for court approval
of a compromise of, or a covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's
disputed claim; a compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to
which a minor or person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the
proceeds of a judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate
Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be
verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing on the reasonableness of the compromise,
covenant, settlement, or disposition.” (CRC Rule 7.950.) 
If an attorney assisted in the
preparation of the petition, the petition must disclose: “(1) The name, state
bar number, law firm, if any, and business address of the attorney; (2) Whether
the attorney became involved with the petition, directly or indirectly, at the
instance of any party against whom the claim is asserted or of any party's
insurance carrier; (3) Whether the attorney represents or is employed by any
other party or any insurance carrier involved in the matter; (4) Whether the
attorney has received any attorney's fees or other compensation for services
provided in connection with the claim giving rise to the petition or with the
preparation of the petition, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the
person who paid the fees or other compensation; (5) If the attorney has not
received any attorney's fees or other compensation for services provided in
connection with the claim giving rise to the petition or with the preparation
of the petition, whether the attorney expects to receive any fees or other
compensation for these services, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of
the person who is expected to pay the fees or other compensation; and (6) The
terms of any agreement between the petitioner and the attorney.” (CRC Rule
7.951.)
The petitioner and claimant
must attend the hearing on the petition unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise. (CRC Rule 7.952, subd. (a).)
In all cases
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or Probate Code sections 3600-3601,
unless the court has approved the fee agreement in advance, the court must use
a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of attorney's
fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a
minor or a person with a disability.
The court
must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.
(CRC Rule 7.955, subd.
(a)(1)–(2).)
Plaintiff Yvette Villalba, on
behalf of minor Plaintiffs Zachary Cuevas and Richard Cuevas (Claimants), seeks
approval of the following settlement. Defendants Park Village Family Apartments
dba Jasmin Garden Apartments and FPI Management Inc. (Defendants) shall pay a
global settlement amount of $2.15 million. (Petition Att. 11b(3).) The
settlement is apportioned as follows: $1.75 million for Yvette Villalba, the
wife of the Decedent Jonathon Cabrera, and $100,000 each for Plaintiffs Zachary
Cuevas, Richard Cuevas, Jade Chan, and Yoel Chan. (Ibid.) 
From the gross $100,000 to be
given to each claimant, $35,000 (or 35% of the gross) is allocated to attorney
fees, while $724.90 is allocated to expenses, leaving a net settlement payment
for each claimant of $64,275.10. (Petition at p. 6.) These payments are to be
deposited in insured accounts subject to withdrawal on authorization of the
court. (Petition at p. 8.) 
Plaintiffs justify the
allocation of the settlement by noting that Claimants, as stepchildren of
Decedent, had a more limited relationship with him than his wife, Petitioner.
(Petition Att. 11b(6).) Plaintiffs submit the declaration of their counsel, Joshua
H. Haffner, who states that his firm has a contingency fee agreement with
Petitioner for a 40% fee to be paid out of any recovery, which is discounted to
35% in the case of the present claimants. (Haffner Decl. ¶¶ 3–4, Exh. 17a.) Haffner
describes the discovery conducted in this matter, including the depositions of
all parties, the exchange of documents, and the retention of an expert, before
this case settled at mediation on November 11, 2023. (Haffner Decl. ¶ 8.) 
The court finds reasonable
compensation for services provided to the minors to be $30,000 each, and costs
shall be attributed to the wife of decedent. 
The petitions are therefore GRANTED, subject to the above
modification.
 