 Case Number:  22STCV23998    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants Golden West Donuts and Sophon Koeuth’s Motion to
Recall and Quash Writ of Execution and Return of Assets Levied is GRANTED in part, and Plaintiff is directed to return
$10,744.26 in levied funds.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
QUASH WRIT OF EXEUCTION
“Certainly a trial court has the power, and it is the trial
court's duty, to vacate or recall a writ of execution which has been
improvidently issued. If a writ of execution is issued to enforce a void
judgment, obviously it has been improvidently issued. It is a fundamental rule
that a writ of execution must be founded upon a Valid and subsisting judgment
which has not been satisfied.” (Jones v. World Life Research Institute
(1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 836, 840, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.)

Defendants Golden West Donuts and Sophon Koeuth
(Defendants) move to quash a writ of execution issued on February 7, 2023, on
the grounds that the default judgment upon which the writ was based has been
vacated. (Motion at pp. 7–8.) “Once vacated, the status of the parties that
existed prior to the judgment is restored and the situation then prevailing is
the same as though the order or judgment had never been made.” (Bulmash v.
Davis (1979) 24 Cal.3d 691, 697.) Defendants also note Code of Civil
Procedure § 908, which authorizes appellate courts to direct restitution of
property rights lost as a result of a judgment that has since been reversed or
modified. (Motion at p. 8.) Defendants accordingly seek the return of
$10,144.26 in levied funds. (Kenny Decl. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff in opposition notes that the writ of execution
was quashed by order of the court through ex parte application on October 11,
2023, making Defendants’ request moot. (Motion at p. 1.) Plaintiff also notes
that it has twice notarized and sent to Defendants a release of abstract of
judgment, and has confirmed the release of all liens. (Opposition at p. 2.)
Plaintiff argues, however, that no return of the levied $10,144.26 in levied
funds should be ordered, since the funds are subject to a lien by Plaintiff’s
counsel upon any recovery in this action. (Opposition at pp. 2–3.) Thus
Plaintiff argues that ordering return of the levied funds would be inconsistent
“with rights of third parties” — i.e. its counsel — under Code of Civil
Procedure § 908.
Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive, and restitution is
properly ordered. Plaintiff acknowledges that its counsel’s lien is upon any
recovery in this action. (Opposition at p. 2.) Yet there has been no recovery
in this action, as the judgment pursuant to which any recovery was made has
since been vacated. (See Bulmash, supra, 24 Cal.3d at p.
697.) An order of restitution is therefore not inconsistent with the rights of
Plaintiff’s counsel.
The motion is therefore GRANTED in part, and Plaintiff is
directed to return $10,744.26 in levied funds.
Defendant further seeks $9,795.90
in attorney fees under Code of Civil Procedure § 697.410, which authorizes
attorney fees to the prevailing party in an application to a court “for an
order releasing the judgment lien on the property” belonging to the moving
party. (Code Civ. Proc. § 697.410, subd. (c), (d).) This section does not apply
however, as the section’s remedies are directed to the owner of property
against which an abstract of a money judgment has been recorded “because
the name of the property owner is the same as or similar to that of the
judgment debtor,” and the property owner has been “erroneously identified.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 697.410, subd. (a).) This is an application for relief based
on a vacated judgment, not mistaken identity. Moreover, no fees would be
appropriate if the statute were applicable, as Plaintiff served a release of
the abstract in August 2023, before the motion was served, although Defendant
evidently did not receive it. (Gentino Decl. ¶¶ 1–2.) No sanctions are awarded.