 Case Number:  21STCV33984    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  61 April
Robles’ Motion to be Appointed Successor in Interest to Plaintiff Maria Refugio
is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR
SUBSTITUTION OF PLAINTIFF
 
 “[A] cause of action for or against a person
is not lost by reason of the person’s death, but survives subject to the
applicable limitations period.” (Code Civ. Proc. 377.20, subd. (a).) “On motion
after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court
shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued
by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s
successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.31.)
 
(a)   The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following:
 
(1)The decedent’s name.
 
(2) The
date and place of the decedent’s death.
 
(3) “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.”
 
(4) If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution
of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
 
(5)
Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
 
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
 
(B) “The
affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
 
(6) “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
 
(7) “The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(b) Where
more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this section,
the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to
reflect that fact.
 
(c) A
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
377.32.) 
 
The present motion addresses
the death of Plaintiff Maria Refugio on March 29, 2023, and is brought by April
Robles, her niece, to succeed to Plaintiff’s causes of action in this matter.
(Motion Exh. A.) The motion includes a declaration from Robles that is in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32. No opposition has been filed.

 
 The motion is GRANTED.
 