 Case Number:  22STCV02561    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Armen Ambarachyan’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Code of Civil Procedure § 128.5 allows a court to order the payment of
attorney fees to a party wronged by another party’s “actions or tactics, made
in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).) 
Another statute allows sanctions where an attorney presents materials to
the court not in keeping with the following guarantees:
(b) By presenting to the court, whether
by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition,
written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented
party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information,
and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of
the following conditions are met:
 
(1) It is not being presented primarily
for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
 
(3) The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery.
 
(4) The denials of factual contentions
are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subd. (b).)
Defendant Armen Ambarachyan
(Defendant) moves for $71,000 in sanctions against Plaintiff Sebastian Rucci
(Plaintiff) and the Law Offices of Sebastian Rucci, P.C., representing
$18,000.00 in fees expended with the present motion, as well as $53,000 in legal
fees incurred, which Defendant offers to substantiate at a later date.
(Artunyan Decl. ¶¶ 6–7.) 
The basis for the present
motion is similar to the bases offered for Defendant’s prior demurrer and
motion to apply Ohio law. Namely, Defendant contends that Plaintiff is a
resident of Ohio, who cannot benefit from California’s Homeowner Bill of Rights
(HBOR). (Motion at pp. 10–11.) Defendant notes that Civil Code § 2924.15
provides that HBOR’s protections apply to “owner-occupied residential real
property” that is the “principal residence of the borrower.” (Civ. Code §
2924.15, subd. (a)(1)(A), (B).) Defendant presents email and text
communications in which Plaintiff states, as of November 2021, that he lives in
Ohio. (Motion Exh. H.)
The motion is unpersuasive. None
of the exhibits attached to the motion are authenticated. Although the motion
mentions Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses, no such interrogatories or their
responses are presented to the court. Moreover, the evidence that Defendants
cite is contradicted by Plaintiff’s verified allegations of California
residence contained in his FAC.
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 