

Hearing Date:             October 17, 2024        
Case Name:                 Creasun Entertainment USA,
Inc. v. Helfant, et al.
Case
No.:                    24STCV03380
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Arbitration
Moving
Party:             Defendants Michael Helfant
and Loeb & Loeb LLP

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Creasun Entertainment USA,
Inc. 


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Court grants the
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 

 
Background
 
This is a legal malpractice action.
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff Creasun Entertainment USA, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Michael Helfant (“Helfant”) and Loeb &
Loeb LLP (“Loeb”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging the legal services
rendered to Plaintiff for a film project fell below the standard of care and
were performed in breach of Defendants’ professional and ethical obligations to
Plaintiff. 
 
On May 7, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration pursuant to an Engagement Letter,
which Shanghai Creasun Media Culture Corporation Ltd., entered into with Loeb.
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. On June 11, 2024, Defendants
filed a Reply. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants’ request for judicial
notice of Exhibits 1-5 attached to the declaration of Emma Tehrani and
depositions transcripts from Case No. 20STCV35479 are granted. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendants’
objections to the declaration of Timothy McGonigle are overruled. 
 
            Defendants’
objections to the declaration of Minglu Ma are sustained as to Nos. 3, 5, and
6,  and overruled as to Nos.1, 2, 3, 4,
and 7. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
objections to the declaration of Emma Tehrani are overruled. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 authorizes the court to order arbitration of a case if it finds the
parties agreed to arbitrate that dispute “and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy.” Arbitration agreements should be
liberally interpreted and ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply
to the dispute in question.  (Weeks v.
Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353; Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)  “ ‘Doubts as to
whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration.  The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.’ ” (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State¿(2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.) 
 
Discussion
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement 
 
The party moving to compel
arbitration has the initial burden to (1) affirmatively admit and allege the
existence of a written arbitration agreement, and (2) prove the existence of
that agreement by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Rosenthal v. Great W. Fin. Sec. Corp, 14 Cal.
4th 394, 413.) Once this is met, the burden shifts to the responding party to
prove that the agreement is unenforceable by a preponderance of the
evidence.  (Ibid.)  
 
In establishing the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is sufficient for defendant to
provide a copy of the arbitration agreement or state the paragraph
verbatim.  (Baker v. Italian Maple
Holdings, LLC, 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160 (2017); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1330.)  
 
Here, Defendants
have produced an Engagement Letter dated October 31, 2017, which contains an
arbitration clause. (Tan Decl., ¶8, Ex. 1.) Miss Minglu Ma, Chairman of the
Board of Shanghai Creasun Media Culture Corporation Ltd. (“Shanghai Creasun”) entered
into an attorney-client relationship with Defendants on the behalf of Shanghai
Creasun via the Engagement Letter related to the “Groove Tails” film project. (Id.)

 
The Engagement Letter includes the following
arbitration clause:
 
“11. Arbitration
and Costs.
 
By executing
this engagement agreement you agree that if any dispute (other than disputes
concerning the fees owed to us) between you and the firm arises out of this
engagement agreement, our relationship with you or our performance of any
current or future legal services, whether those services are the subject of
this particular engagement letter or otherwise, that dispute will be resolved
solely by binding arbitration in Los Angeles, California, before one arbitrator
(to be designated through JAMS) and pursuant to the Comprehensive Arbitration
Rules and Procedures (as then in effect) of JAMS. The disputes subject to
binding arbitration will include, without limitation, disputes regarding or
alleging negligence, malpractice, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud or any claim
based upon a statute, as well as any dispute as to the arbitrability of any
such claims. The arbitrator’s award will be final and binding, and judgment
thereon may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. Arbitration will
be the sole means of resolving any such disputes, and both parties waive their
rights to resolve disputes by jury trial or other court proceedings. (Italics
added.)
 
. . . . 
 
The parties
acknowledge that this engagement agreement is a contract involving interstate
commerce and that, notwithstanding the general choice of law provision in
paragraph 12, this arbitration provision will be interpreted under the Federal
Arbitration Act.”
 
As a preliminary
matter, the Court notes the parties do not dispute the Engagement Letter
contains an agreement to arbitrate certain claims arising from the
attorney-client relationship between Defendants and Shanghai Creasun. However, Defendants
move for an order compelling Plaintiff Creasun Entertainment USA, Inc.to
arbitrate its legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty claims. Plaintiff
asserts it is a nonsignatory of the Engagement Letter. Therefore, the threshold
issue is whether Plaintiff, a nonsignatory to the Engagement Letter can be
compelled to arbitrate its claims against Defendants. 
 
“Generally speaking, one must be a
party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Westra
v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Brokerage Co., Inc. (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 759, 763.) Nevertheless, “[t]here are exceptions to the general
rule that a nonsignatory to an agreement cannot be compelled to arbitrate and
cannot invoke an agreement to arbitrate, without being a party to the
arbitration agreement.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236–1237.) These exceptions are: “ ‘(a) incorporation by
reference; (b) assumption; (c) agency; (d) veil-piercing or alter ego; (e)
estoppel; and (f) third-party beneficiary’ [citations].” (Benaroya v. Willis
(2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 462, 469.) For purposes of this motion, the Court will
focus on estoppel, agency, and third-party beneficiary as those are the three exceptions
Defendants argue support compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate its claims. 
 
1.    
Equitable Estoppel
 
Under the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel
a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations. [Citations].” (JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra,
 93 Cal.App.4th 1237 (emphasis added).) “By
relying on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if
not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement. [Citations].” (Id.) “The
rule applies to prevent parties from trifling with their contractual
obligations. [Citations].” (Id.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has sued Michael
Helfant and the law firm, Loeb & Loeb LLP for legal malpractice and breach
of fiduciary duty. The Complaint alleges “Plaintiff retained Defendants to
represent its interests in the negotiation and documentation of a film
financing deal in which Plaintiff was to provide the financing for [the film
production called “Kung Fury 2”].” (Compl., ¶¶6-7.) As such, Defendants argue
these claims arise out of and rely on the rights and responsibilities of the
parties created by the Engagement Letter. Although the Complaint does not
mention the Engagement Letter, Defendants have provided the retainer invoice
for $25,000.00, titled “RETAINER PER ENGAGEMENT LETTER” that is addressed to
Plaintiff and confirmation that Plaintiff paid the retainer fee. (Tan Decl.,
¶13, Ex. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff contends the Engagement
Letter limited Defendants’ scope of services to providing legal representation
to Shanghai Creasun, not any of its parent, subsidiary, related, affiliated or
associated person or entity. This argument fails for two reasons: (1) the
Engagement Letter “scope of services” limited Defendants’ “initial
responsibilities” to such restriction not further or future legal services and
(2) as shown above, Plaintiff’s claims are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the obligations set forth in the Engagement Letter.  
 
Moreover, “[d]irect-benefit
estoppel involve[s] non-signatories who, during the life of the contract, have
embraced the contract despite their non-signatory status but then, during
litigation, attempt to repudiate the arbitration clause in the contract.
[Citations].” (Noble Drilling Services, Inc. v. Certex USA, Inc. (5th
Cir. 2010) 620 F.3d 469, 473; see also Knight et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide Alt. Disp. Res. (The Rutter Group 2023) Ch. 5-F, ¶5:266.14.)
“A non-signatory can ‘embrace’ a contract containing an arbitration clause in
two ways: (1) by knowingly seeking and obtaining “direct benefits” from that
contract; or (2) by seeking to enforce the terms of that contract or asserting
claims that must be determined by reference to that contract.” (Id.) As
previously discussed, Plaintiff sought and received legal services from
Defendants pursuant to the Engagement Letter as evidenced by the retainer
invoice. (Tan Decl., ¶¶12-13, Ex. 4; Mot. at 15:27-16:1-2.) Ms. Ma sought
Defendants’ legal representation on behalf of Plaintiff for the Kung Fury 2
project. (Opp’n at 6:24-25.) Lastly, Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts claims of
malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty, which must be determined by reference
to the Engagement Letter because the attorney-client relationship between the
parties was formed via payment of the retainer per the Engagement Letter.  
 
Accordingly, equitable estoppel permits
Defendants to enforce the arbitration clause in the Engagement Letter against
Plaintiff. 
 
2.    
Agency Principles
 
Next, Defendants assert that
arbitration must be ordered under agency principles. 
 
“A nonsignatory to an agreement to
arbitrate may be required to arbitrate, and may invoke arbitration against a
party, if a preexisting confidential relationship, such as an agency relationship
between the nonsignatory and one of the parties to the arbitration agreement,
makes it equitable to impose the duty to arbitrate upon the nonsignatory.” (Westra
v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Brokerage Co., Inc. (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 759, 765; see also Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1285.) “Courts look to traditional principles of contract and agency law
to determine whether a nonsignatory is bound by an arbitration agreement signed
by its principal or agent.” (Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program,
LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 860.) “Ostensible
authority exists to the extent that ‘a principal, intentionally or by want of
ordinary care, causes or allows a third person to believe the agent to possess’
such authority.” (Id.) 
 
Defendants contend Ms.
Ma, as the Chairman of the Board of Shanghai Creasun and Plaintiff, represented
to them that Plaintiff was Shanghai Creasun’s United States operating entity,
i.e., an agent of Shanghai Creasun. (Helfant Decl., ¶2.) Defendants further argue
that Plaintiff acted as the agent or instrumentality of Shanghai Creasun
because its actions throughout Defendants’ legal representation were directed
and accomplished by Ms. Ma in her capacity as Chairman of the Board for both
Plaintiff and Shanghai Creasun. (Id. at ¶¶8-11, Exs. 4-6.) Further, Shanghai
Creasun’s employees were directly involved in Plaintiff’s negotiation of the
Term Sheet for the Kung Fury 2 project, which was consistent with Ms. Ma’s
representation that Plaintiff was Shanghai Creasun’s United States operating
entity. (Id. at ¶¶2, 7, Ex. 3.) Additionally, Defendants argue Ms. Ma
represented to them that she needed the Shanghai Creasun’s board of directors
to approve the final version of the Term Sheet. (Id. at ¶5, Ex. 1.)
 
Plaintiff admits Ms.
Ma is its principal and the principal of Shanghai Creasun. (Ma Decl., ¶¶7, 11,
13; Opp’n at 4:24-25, 7:2-3.) Plaintiff also admits it sought out Defendants’
legal services for the Kung Fury 2 film project and Ms. Ma told Attorney Junzi
Tan to re-draft the invoice to be directed to Plaintiff. (Opp’n at 7:20-27.) Plaintiff
does not contest the veracity of the email communications submitted by
Defendants, which show that:  (1) Ms. Ma
signed her signature as a Chairman of the Board of Plaintiff and Shanghai
Creasun, (2) Shanghai Creasun’s employees were involved in the negotiation
process for the Kung Fury 2 project, and (3) Ms. Ma represented to Defendants
the Shanghai Creasun’s board needed to approve the final Term Sheet for the Kung
fury 2 project. Defendants have demonstrated that Ms. Ma, on behalf of Shanghai
Creasun, caused Defendants to believe an agency relationship existed between
Shanghai Creasun and Plaintiff such that compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate
would be equitable. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant Helfant cannot invoke the arbitration clause because he was not a
party to the Engagement Letter. Defendants admit former attorney Steven
Saltzman was counsel who represented Shanghai Creasun in the “Groove Tails”
project. Nevertheless, Defendants argue Defendant Helfant is entitled to invoke
the arbitration agreement because the allegations against him concern his
conduct as an agent and employee of Defendant Loeb, who is a signatory to the
Engagement Letter. The Court agrees. 
 
In Thomas v. Westlake (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 605, the court held “a plaintiff’s allegations of an agency
relationship among defendants is sufficient to allow the alleged agents to
invoke the benefit of an arbitration agreement executed by their principal even
though the agents are not parties to the agreement.” (Id. at pp. 614-615
[allegation that defendants acted as agents of one another sufficient to allow
alleged agent/nonsignatory to compel arbitration]; see also Dryer v. Los
Angeles Rams, 40 Cal.3d 406, 418 (1985).)
 
            Therefore,
agency principles apply to allow Defendants to enforce the arbitration clause
in the Engagement Letter against Plaintiff.
 
 
3.    
Third-Party Beneficiary 
 
Finally, Defendants argue Plaintiff
is required to arbitrate its claims as a third-party beneficiary of the
Engagement Letter.
 
“A third party beneficiary is
someone who may enforce a contract because the contract is made expressly for
his benefit.  [Citation.]  The test for determining whether a
contract was made for the benefit of a third person is whether an intent to
benefit a third person appears from the terms of the contract. [Citation.]  The mere fact that a contract results in
benefits to a third party does not render that party a third party beneficiary.
[Citation]” (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 973
[internal quotation marks and brackets omitted].) 
 
“In Goonewardene [v.
ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830], the Supreme Court held that in
considering third party beneficiary contract claims, a court should ‘carefully
examine[ ] the express provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of
the relevant circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to
determine not only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties
was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting
party is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.’ [Citation]  ‘All three elements must be satisfied to
permit the third party action to go forward.’ ” 
(Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th 973.)
 
Defendants argue that during the
execution of the Engagement Letter, Ms. Ma expressed intent to use Shanghai
Creasun’s U.S. entity to enter into the “Groove Tails” Term Sheet, thus drafts
of the Term Sheet contained a placeholder for “the U.S. subsidiary of Shanghai
Creasun Media Culture Stock Corporation – to be named[.]” (Tan Decl., ¶¶10-11,
Exs. 2-3.) Plaintiff acknowledges the draft of the “Groove Tails” Term Sheet
contained such language, but contends the draft was not signed because Michael
Becker was supposed to possibly bring in an additional American company. (Opp’n
at 6:15-23.) 
 
The final version of the Engagement
Letter executed and signed by the parties states, “Our initial
responsibilities on your behalf will be to advise you (as opposed to any
parent, subsidiary, related,  affiliated
or associated person or entity of you, or any of your or their respective
officers, directors, investors, agents, partners or employees) in
connection with your equity financing of the animated feature film currently
entitled “Groove Tails”, as well as other matters which we may agree from time
to time. Thereafter, we will perform such further legal services for you as
you and we may agree upon from time to time. All further legal services will be
governed by the terms of this letter.” (Tan Decl., ¶8, Ex 1 at p. 15 (Italics
added).) Neither party contests “you” or “your” refers to Shanghai Creasun. On
the face of the Engagement Letter, Defendants agreed to perform further legal
services for Shanghai Creasun as agreed upon by the parties, which a reasonable
person could infer includes drafting the “Groove Tails” Term Sheet to contain
the language cited above. On the other hand, Defendants only provide the draft
Term Sheet, not the finalized Term Sheet. They thus fail to demonstrate
Plaintiff was intended to benefit from the Engagement Letter as a third-party. 
 
Nonetheless, Defendants have met
their burden proving the existence of a valid binding agreement to arbitrate
between Defendants and Plaintiff based on the doctrine of equitable estoppel,
and principles of agency. 
Conclusion
            The Court grants Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration. The Court stays this action pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1281.4 pending arbitration.