  Case Number:  20STCV14617    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend and File Fourth
Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend
and File Fourth Amended Complaint is denied. 

BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Roderick Corprue brings
an action against the City of Lawndale (“Lawdale”),
Johnny Calderon, Kahono Oei, and doe Defendants
1 to 100 ( collectively, “Defendants”), alleging employment
discrimination.  
On 6/23/22, the Court denied Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment, and granted in part and denied in part Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication with respect to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. After
the 6/23/22 order, the remaining clams alleged violations of the FEHA (discrimination,
harassment, retaliation, failure to prevent, promptly investigate and correct
FEHA violations, failure to engage in the interactive process, and failure to
accommodate) based on disability for conduct that occurred within one year of
Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH Complaint. Thus, wrongful conduct based on disability that
occurred before 3/19/19 was time-barred. The Court specifically granted summary
adjudication against Plaintiff with respect to his claims for violation of the
FEHA based on race and age. 
Plaintiff then sought leave to amend the pleading to
add new claims and legal theories that had arisen since he filed the case. In
granting Plaintiff’s motion to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), the
Court noted in its order on 8/1/23 that Plaintiff could reallege summarily
adjudicated claims to avoid waivers on appeal, but that issues summarily
adjudicated could not be relitigated merely because such allegations were
contained in the amended pleading. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ prior FEHA claims
based on race and age remained dismissed because the Court had previously
summary adjudicated those claims along with other claims for violation of the CFRA,
violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5, and defamation. Accordingly, as the
Court noted in its 5/15/24 order, following the filing of the TAC, the
following claims are in the case:
(1)   Violation
of the FEHA - discrimination based on disability for conduct that occurred
within one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH Complaint;
(2)    Violation of the FEHA – harassment based on
disability for conduct that occurred within one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20
DFEH Complaint;
(3)   Violation
of the FEHA – retaliation based on disability for conduct that occurred within
one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH Complaint;
(4)   Violation
of the FEHA – failure to engage in the interactive process based on disability
for conduct that occurred within one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH
Complaint;
(5)   Violation
of the FEHA – failure to accommodate based on disability for conduct that
occurred within one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH Complaint; and
(6)   Violation
of the FEHA – failure to prevent/investigate based on disability for conduct
that occurred within one year of Plaintiff’s 3/20/20 DFEH Complaint.
The motion now before the Court is Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend and File a Fourth
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff seeks to add causes of action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy, Violation of Labor Code Section §6310,
and Violation of Labor Code Section §6310. Plaintiff also seeks to add allegations
regarding racial and physical hrassments he allegedly suffered dating back to
2008, alleged retaliation he suffered dating back to 2021, and his formal
termination in May 2024. Lawndale filed an opposition, and Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant
part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the
name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a
mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for
answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to
the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047. Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” Morgan v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530. In
contrast, “[w]here the trial date is set, the jury is about to be impaneled,
counsel, the parties, the trial court, and the witnesses have blocked the time,
and the only way to avoid prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the
trial date to allow further discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an
abuse of discretion. Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
488.
 
ANALYSIS
Unreasonable Delay
Lawndale argues that Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Amend and File a Fourth Amended Complaint is untimely and prejudicial because
it is scheduled for hearing less than a month before trial. Plaintiff argues
that its motion is timely based on Lawndale’s conduct since Plaintiff filed his
Third Amended Complaint on January 11, 2023. 
Motion at p. 4:12-27.  The conduct
consists of filing a cross-complaint for conversion and unjust enrichment in
September 2023 and formally terminating Plaintiff in May 2024.  
The Court concludes Plaintiff’s
motion is not timely based on either of Plaintiff’s explanation of changed
circumstances. First, Lawndale filed their cross-complaint in September 2023,
almost a year before Plaintiff filed this Motion. Plaintiff has offered no
justification for this delay. 
Second, Plaintiff’s
argument that his termination is a new development is inconsistent with his
previously pleaded allegations. In his First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff
included a cause of action for Wrongful Termination Against Public Policy and
alleged that Lawndale had terminated him. 
FAC ¶ 44.  Plaintiff explains that
this cause of action was removed from the Second Amended complaint because “the
issues at the time were ultimately based on acts constituting Plaintiff’s
constructive termination.”  Motion at p.
3:19-20.  In his Third Amended Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that Lawndale constructively terminated him in 2022. TAC ¶¶
36, 49.
“Constructive
discharge occurs when the employer’s conduct effectively forces an
employee to resign.” Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 568, 578, quoting Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1244. “[A] constructive discharge is legally regarded as
a firing rather than a resignation. Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., supra,
7 Cal.4th at 1245, (citing Zilmer v. Carnation Co. (1989) 215 Cal. App.
3d 29, 38-39.)
While plaintiffs
are permitted to plead inconsistent legal theories, they are not permitted to
plead inconsistent facts. See Steiner v. Rowley (1950) 35 Cal.2d 713,
719 (contradictory or antagonistic facts are not allowed).  In previously alleging wrongful termination in
the FAC and alleging constructive termination in the TAC, Plaintiff represented
that his employment had been terminated. Because Plaintiff’s operative
complaint contends he was terminated in 2022, his motion to amend his complaint
to include a claim for Wrongful Termination now is not timely. 
Prejudice
Lawndale argues that
Plaintiff’s motion is prejudicial because it comes so close to trial. It would
require Lawndale to respond to these new claims, conduct additional discovery
to test the viability and applicability of the Labor Code claims, and possibly
require new experts concerning OSHA violations. Opposition at p. Lawndale
argues that this would likely delay the trial currently set for October 21,
2024.  
Plaintiff argues that no
prejudice will result because the amended allegations and causes of actions he
seeks to amend have arisen since he filed this action and are related to the
facts initially pleaded. Motion at p. 7:8-11. 
Plaintiff does not respond to arguments concerning the likely necessity
of delaying the trial to avoid prejudicing Lawndale.
The motion and discovery cut-off date is September 23,
2024 (the same date as the hearing on the current motion). The current motion
for leave to amend was filed on August 28, 2024, less than a
month before the motion and discovery cut-off date. The trial is
set for October 21, 2021, less than one month from now. It is the Court’s
understanding that all fact discovery has been completed, including depositions
of the parties and other fact witnesses.
If the amended complaint is filed, Defendants will
need to conduct additional discovery and possibly file motions contesting the
merits of the new claims sought to be added to the case. The filing of an
amended complaint will necessitate a continuance of the trial date and
significant additional pre-trial litigation. Under Magapli v. Farmers
Group, Inc., supra, the Court has discretion to deny a motion
for leave to amend under these circumstances. The Court exercises its
discretion in this instance to deny leave to amend.
Rule 3.1324(b)
Additionally, while Plaintiff filed a separate
declaration of his attorney, Christopher Porter, in support of his motion, as
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), it fails to specify the
effect of the amendment and the reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier. See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b); Porter
Declaration ¶¶ 1-14.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is denied.  
Because the Court concludes that leave to amend should
be denied for the reasons given, it declines to address Lawndale’s arguments as
to the validity of Plaintiff’s proposed claims or that the proposed new
allegations and claims are inconsistent with the Court’s earlier summary
adjudication.
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend and File Fourth Amended
Complaint is denied.