 Case Number:  24STCV15148    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Defendant's
Motion to Disqualify Counsel
 
Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel is denied.    
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Armine Avetissian (“Plaintiff”)
brings
this action against Lucid Group USA, Inc.
and Lucid USA, Inc., and doe defendants 1 to 30 (“Defendants”),
alleging that Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff the money owed under the parties’
settlement agreement. Defendants, instead, paid the funds to hackers, who had hacked
Plaintiff’s Counsel’s email and sent Defendant false wire instructions.  
The causes of action are: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith And Fair Dealing; and  (3)
Negligence.
The motion now before the Court is Defendants’ Motion
to Disqualify Counsel.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“A trial court's
authority to disqualify an attorney derives from its inherent power, codified
at Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(5), to control the
conduct of its ministerial officers and of all other persons connected with its
proceedings in furtherance of justice.” Jarvis v. Jarvis (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 113, 129. Disqualification may be ordered as a prophylactic
measure against a prospective ethical violation likely to have a substantial
continuing effect on future proceedings. City of San Diego v. Superior Court (2018)
30 Cal.App.5th 457, 462, 471–472; but see In re Jasmine S. (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 835, 843 (“‘an appearance of impropriety by itself does not
support a lawyer's disqualification’”). Doe v. Yim (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th
573, 581 (Yim).  
 
ANALYSIS 
Conflict of
Interest
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
Counsel, Hovanes Margarian, has a conflict of interest because he and his law
firm face potential liability due to their inadequate IT security and failure
to detect the breach of the firm’s email system, which resulted in the hack and
thus Plaintiff’s loss. Motion at p. 2:2-14. 
Defendants further argue that Margarian’s inquiry into potentially
representing Defendants on other cases after this case is resolved raises
questions regarding his ability to represent Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff argues that because
she has given her informed written consent, there is no reason to disqualify
Margarian. Opposition at p. 5:9-11.   
California Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 1.7 (b) states the following: “A lawyer shall not,
without informed written consent from each affected client and compliance with
paragraph (d), represent a client if there is a significant risk the lawyer’s
representation of the client will be materially limited by the lawyer’s
responsibilities to or relationships with another client, a former client or a
third person, or by the lawyer’s own interests.” Cal. R. Prof. Conduct 1.7 (b),
(footnote omitted).
“A ‘standing’ requirement is implicit in disqualification motions.” Great Lakes Construction, Inc. v. Burman (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 1347, 1356 (Great Lakes). “Generally, before the disqualification
of an attorney is proper, the complaining party must have or must have had an
attorney-client relationship with that attorney.” Ibid. In the absence
of an attorney-client relationship, generally, “some sort of confidential or
fiduciary relationship must exist or have existed.” Ibid. “Thus, a
moving party must have standing, that is, an invasion of a legally cognizable
interest, to disqualify an attorney.” Id. at p. 1357. “[T]he standing
requirement for attorney disqualification motions protects against the
strategic exploitation of the rules of ethics and guards against improper use
of disqualification as a litigation tactic.” Id. at p. 1358.  
Defendants are not now and have not previously been Margarian’s clients,
nor do they allege that they have any confidential or fiduciary relationship
with Margarian.  Instead, Defendants
argue that they are prejudiced by the risk that Plaintiff could decide that Margarian’s
representation was ineffective, forcing Defendants to relitigate this case. Motion
at p. 8:14-20. Defendants provide no authority for the proposition that a civil
plaintiff whose attorney’s ineffective assistance results in a negative verdict
may overturn that verdict and relitigate the case. Accordingly, the Court finds
that Defendants lack standing to bring a motion to disqualify based on any
potential conflict of interest between Plaintiff and Margarian. See Great
Lakes, supra, (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th at p. 1357.  
 
The
Advocate-Witness Rule
Defendants further argue
that Margarian should be disqualified because he is likely to testify as a fact
witness at trial.  
The “advocate-witness
rule” prohibits an attorney from acting as an advocate and a witness in the
same proceeding. Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1208.
As codified, the rule states, “A lawyer shall not act as an advocate in a trial
in which the lawyer is likely to be a witness unless: [¶] (1) the lawyer’s
testimony relates to an uncontested issue or matter; [¶] (2) the lawyer’s
testimony relates to the nature and value of legal services rendered in the
case; or [¶] (3) the lawyer has obtained informed written consent from the
client.” Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 3.7(a), fn. omitted. A comment to the rule
clarifies that the informed consent exception is not absolute: “Notwithstanding
a client’s informed written consent, courts retain discretion to take action,
up to and including disqualification of a lawyer who seeks to both testify and
serve as an advocate, to protect the trier of fact from being misled or the
opposing party from being prejudiced.” Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 3.7(a), com. 3.
fn. omitted (citing Lyle v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 470 (Lyle).
“Where a lawyer representing a party in trial is also
a witness during the trial, his or her effectiveness, both as a lawyer and as a
witness, may be impaired in the eyes of the fact finder. Such disadvantage
inures to the detriment of the party being represented by the lawyer serving
such a dual function.” Smith, Smith & Kring v. Superior Court (1997)
60 Cal.App.4th 573, 578. In Lopez v. Lopez (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 412,
425 (Lopez), the court
reversed the order of disqualification where the trial court found the attorney’s
“dual role would impair his credibility as a witness … and diminish his
effectiveness as an advocate.” California Rules of Professional Conduct, rule
37(a)(3), likewise reflects the insight that as a general matter, it is the
attorney’s client who is harmed by the attorney acting as a witness, and
therefore requires informed consent from the client, and no other parties to
the trial. See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 37.(a)(3). 
“[T]he trial court, when
balancing the several competing interests, should resolve the close case in
favor of the client’s right to representation by an attorney of his or her
choice.” Lyle, supra, 122 Cal.App.3d at. 482 “[I]f a party is willing to
accept less effective counsel because of the attorney’s testifying, neither his
opponent nor the trial court should be able to deny this choice to the party
without a convincing demonstration of detriment to the opponent or injury to
the integrity of the judicial process.” Ibid. 
“In exercising its
discretion to disqualify counsel under the advocate-witness rule, a court must
consider: (1) whether counsel’s testimony is, in fact, genuinely needed; (2)
the possibility opposing counsel is using the motion to disqualify for purely
tactical reasons; and (3) the combined effects of the strong interest parties
have in representation by counsel of their choice, and in avoiding the
duplicate expense and time-consuming effort involved in replacing counsel
already familiar with the case. Trial judges must indicate on the record they
have considered the appropriate factors.” Lopez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at
424 (cleaned up).
Here, Defendants have named Margarian and his firm as
cross-defendants and intend to argue at trial that Margarian is responsible for
Plaintiff’s injury. See Cross Complaint at ¶¶  4,9, 10, 11. Defendants intend to call
Margarian as a witness to testify as to his alleged negligence in failing to
prevent the wire fraud. See Motion at p. 7:5-6.  While Plaintiff has given written consent, Defendants
argue the Court should nevertheless exercise its discretion to disqualify
Margarian. Defendants argue that Margarian appearing as a witness and serving
as an advocate will likely prejudice Defendants and cause juror confusion.
Defendants offer no reason specific to this case that Margarian’s testimony
will result in prejudice and confusion besides the fact of his dual role. Id.
at p. 7:2-3. This argument is unavailing because it would amount to a
bright-line rule against attorneys as witnesses. However, Rules Prof. Conduct,
rule 3.7(a), explicitly allows attorney witnesses where informed consent is
given. While a court may disqualify an attorney even when informed consent has
been given, it may only do so when there is a “convincing demonstration of
detriment to the opponent.’ Lyle,
supra, 122 Cal.App.3d at. 482. 
Defendants argue that they might be prejudiced in
challenging Margarian’s credibility but fail to consider how Margarian’s
testimony may disadvantage Plaintiff. Motion at p. 9: 18-19. Margarian serving
as both a witness and advocate could impair his credibility and effectiveness
as an advocate because the jury may find he has an unusually strong interest in
vindicating his own actions regarding the hacking of his email. If Defendants
successfully impeach Margarian’s testimony, the jury may not believe his
arguments as an advocate. 
Because the Court finds that Defendants have not made
a convincing demonstration of detriment, it declines to exercise its discretion
to disqualify Margarian.  
 
CONCLUSION
The Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel is
denied.  