  Case Number:  21STLC06138    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  26  
Gonzalez
v. Los Angeles Police Department, et al.DEMURRER(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT EAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiff Jose Manuel Gonzalez
(“Plaintiff”) brought the instant action for personal injury and tort claims
against Defendant City of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “Los Angeles Police
Department”) (“Defendant”) for injuries sustained during an incident with
officers.
On June 26, 2023, Defendant
filed a motion to dismiss the action without prejudice under CRC rule 3.110(b),
Government Section 68608(b) and Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2,
subdivision (a). The Court denied the motion to dismiss on September 18, 2023,
and granted Defendant’s oral request for 30 days’ leave to file a demurrer. On
October 16, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
At the hearing on January
17, 2024, the case was reassigned from Department 25 of the Spring Street
Courthouse to Department 26 of the Spring Street Courthouse. No opposition to
the Demurrer has been filed.
Discussion
The demurring
party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading to resolve objections raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a).) Here, Defendant did not properly meet and confer with Plaintiff as required
under section 430.41. The supporting declaration indicates that defense counsel
made several attempts to call Plaintiff on October 5, 2023, to no avail. (Demurrer,
Lazarevich Decl. ¶6, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff later responded by email, to which defense
counsel scheduled a call for October 13, 2023, at 2:30pm, however, Plaintiff
did not answer. (Id. at ¶7, Ex. 1.) It was later explained to defense counsel
that Plaintiff’s phone was not operable. (Id. at ¶8.)
Communication between the parties solely occurred by email. (Id. at Ex.
1.) This does not satisfy the meet and confer requirements under section 430.41,
which does not limit parties’ ability to “meet and confer” to telephone
communications; it also allows the parties to meet in person. Here, Defendant had
evidence that Plaintiff is of limited means and had issues with communications
via telephone. Yet defense counsel did not offer Plaintiff the opportunity to
meet in person to confer about resolving the objections raised in the demurrer.
Despite this deficiency, the Court cannot sustain or overrule the demurrer
under this basis, therefore Court will address the merits of the demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint appears to allege two causes of action for assault and
discrimination. “The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are:
(1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or
threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff
reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff simply alleges that he was assaulted and
discriminated against by police in relation to an alleged report describing an
attempted break-in of a car. These are conclusions of law, not facts. Gonzales
does not allege facts sufficient to establish each element of a cause of action
for assault or discrimination. In addition, Defendant correctly notes that
under Government Code section 815, subdivision (a) “[e]xcept as otherwise
provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person.”  The
Complaint does not identify any statutory basis for liability against Defendant
for assault. Similarly, the cause of discrimination lacks an allegation
demonstrating a statutory basis for liability. Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is sustained. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) 
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can
be amended successfully. (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff has not filed any opposition to the demurrer, nor otherwise demonstrated
that amendment to the Complaint is possible to assert any cause of action
against Defendant. Leave to amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 