  Case Number:  18STCV00180    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  74 Join Fortune
LTD v. Zhan Liu
Defendant Zhan Liu’s Motion to Set
Aside Default.
 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
Join Fortune LTD (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint in 2018 for failure to pay a promissory
note against Defendant Zhan Liu (Defendant).
            On
May 09, 2019, the Court entered default judgment against the Defendant.
            On
August 13, 2024, Defendant filed the motion to set aside judgment.
            Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), an application for
relief must be made no more than six months after entry of the order from which
relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to
the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b); English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
In
addition, courts have the authority to vacate a default and default judgement
on equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.  (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 118.)  Parties
seeking to set aside judgments on the grounds of extrinsic mistake or fraud
must show (1) a meritorious case, (2) a satisfactory excuse for not presenting
a defense in the earlier proceeding and (3) diligence in seeking to set aside
the judgment after discovery.  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 975, 982.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
is seeking to set aside the judgement issued against her in 2018.  Since the six-month period has passed,
Defendant must show extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake that led to the
default being entered. 
 
Extrinsic Fraud
Extrinsic
fraud occurs when “a party is deprived of the opportunity to present his claim
or defense to the court; where he was kept ignorant or, other than from his own
negligence, fraudulently prevented from fully participating in the
proceeding.”  (Sporn v. Home Depot
USA, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1294, 1300.) 
            Here,
Defendant presents evidence that at the time the lawsuit was filed, she was
living in China to complete a graduate degree. 
(Liu Decl., ¶ 10, 11.)  Defendant’s
husband at the time, Moses Wong, was the principal of plaintiff Join Fortune,
LTD. While Defendant was living in China, Wong arranged to have Defendant served
at their joint home in Pasadena.  (Liu
Decl., ¶ 2, 4; Liu Decl., Ex. 2.)  Moses told
Defendant’s mother who lived in the Pasadena home to give him any mail
delivered to Defendant.  (Supp. Liu
Decl., ¶ 8.)  Defendant’s Mother, who
lacked English proficiency, did so when she was substitute served, giving the
mail to Moses’s secretary without informing Defendant of the service.  (Liu Decl., ¶ 14.)  Defendant did not become aware of the suit or
the default until June 2024.  (Liu Decl.,
¶ 12.)
            Plaintiff
contends that Defendant’s failure to receive service was an intrinsic mistake
because it was Defendant’s mother who failed to deliver the summons and
complaint to Defendant. Plaintiff’s contention does not persuade the Court because
Plaintiff does not acknowledge the role Wong played in seeing the mail was
routed to Wong.
            Given
that Defendant has shown extrinsic fraud, to vacate the default Defendant must
also show (1) a meritorious case, (2) a satisfactory excuse for not presenting
a defense in the earlier proceeding and (3) diligence in seeking to set aside
the judgment after discovery.
 
Meritorious Case
Defendant
meets her burden of showing a meritorious defense. 
The
burden of showing a meritorious defense is low. 
(Rappleyea, supra, 8Cal.4th 983 [“Ordinarily a verified
answer to a complaint’s allegation suffices to show merit”].)  The complaint alleges that Defendant
defaulted on a loan.  Defendant testifies
that Moses had her “sign many documents without explaining what he was asking
me to sign” and that she never knew of the loan, nor did she ever receive any
of the money.  (Lui Decl., ¶ 8, 9.)  Plaintiff presents a copy of the Defendant’s
bank account, showing a $3,691,000 wire transfer.  (Hin Yee Wong Decl., Ex. “A.”)  This is unpersuasive given Defendant’s
testimony that Moses controlled the bank account and that the bank account was
only used to purchase the Pasadena property. 
(Supp. Liu Decl., ¶ 3,4.) 
Defendant also testifies that the bank account has three entries in
Moses’s handwriting that prove she did not control the account.  (Supp. Liu Decl., ¶ 12.)
Given
the above evidence and testimony, Defendant has met her burden of showing a
meritorious defense. 
Satisfactory Excuse
            As
discussed above, Defendant provides sufficient evidence that she did not learn
about the lawsuit until June 2024. 
Diligence
            Defendant
testifies that she learned of this default when Plaintiff attempted to take her
property in June 2024.  (Liu Decl., ¶
12.)  Defendant promptly filed the motion
to vacate in August 2024.  
CONCLUSION
The
court grants Defendant’s motion to vacate the judgment and set aside the
default.
Defendant
shall give notice.