 Case Number:  23STCV15038    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  74 Roldan v.
Cordova Construction Services, Inc.
Plaintiff Fredy Roldan’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND 
             Plaintiff Fredy Roldan (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint for disability discrimination and violations of wage and hour laws
against defendants Cordova Construction Services, Inc. (Cordova), Barrett
Business Services Inc (Barrett), and Does 1-10.
            Plaintiff
filed this motion to compel arbitration on February 08, 2024.
            Defendants
Cordova Construction Services, Inc., Jennifer Cordova, Oscar Cordova and
DecisionHR I, Inc. (collectively Defendants.)
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION
Defendant Cordova Construction
Services Inc.’s Objection to Fedy Roldan’s Declaration
-         
Sustained:
1 (translation not certified)
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions,
Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by
presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to
compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy
must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated
by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            The
Court sustained Defendants evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Fredy
Roldan for lack of certified translation. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not
authenticated the exhibits attached to the declaration and thus Plaintiff does not
provide an authenticated copy of the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff
may include a verbatim statement of the agreement to satisfy the California
Rules of Court, but here Plaintiff submits quotations from the claimed
arbitration agreement that include several ellipses, indicating missing
portions of the agreement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) Moreover, that
part of the agreement that Plaintiff does quote does not include the minimum
necessary terms under Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
such as the allowance of judicial review, the types of relief available, and
who pays for arbitration costs.  (24
Cal.4th 83, 113-118.) Given the foregoing, Plaintiff has not met his burden of
showing the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement.
CONCLUSION
The
court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff
shall give notice.