  Case Number:  22STCV15543    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ALEJANDRO
  SANCHEZ, SR., Individually, As Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez,
  decedent, and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. SANCHEZ, a minor, and ARACELI
  HERNANDEZ,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FORD MOTOR
  COMPANY; PACCAR, INC. dba KENWORTH; TUTOR PERINI CORPORATION; ZACHRY CONSTRUCTION
  CORPORATION; PARSONS CORPORATION; DEUDIEL JUAREZ RAMIREZ; H&M TRUCKING
  AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL OF DINUBA; et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCV15543
 
  Hearing Date:  March 7, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant ford motor company’s DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE COMPLAINT
 
 



 
Procedural
Background
            On May 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Alejandro
Sanchez, Sr., Individually, As Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez,
decedent, and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez, a minor, and Araceli
Hernandez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the instant wrongful death action
against Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford”),  Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth, Tutor Perini
Corporation, Zachry Construction Corporation, Parsons Corporation, Deudiel
Juarez Ramirez, and H & M Trucking And Equipment Rental of Dinuba.[1]  
            The complaint asserts twenty four
causes of action for (1) Wrongful Death based on Strict Product Liability (CCP
§ 377.60) by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. individually against Ford; (2) Survival
based on Strict Product Liability (CCP § 377.20, § 377.34) by Plaintiff
Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. as the Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez against
Ford; (3) Bystander Liability based on Strict Product Liability by Plaintiffs
Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem for E.
Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Ford; (4) Strict Product Liability by
Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem
for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Ford; (5) Wrongful Death based
on Strict Product Liability (CCP § 377.60) by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. individually
against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (6) Survival based on Strict Product
Liability (CCP § 377.20, § 377.34) by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. as the
Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (7)
Bystander Liability based on Strict Product Liability by Plaintiffs Alejandro
Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and
Araceli Hernandez against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (8) Strict Product
Liability by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad
Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Paccar, Inc. dba
Kenworth; (9) Wrongful Death based Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez,
Sr. against Ford; (10) Survival based on Negligence by Plaintiff Alejandro
Sanchez, Sr. as the Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez against Ford; (11)
Bystander Liability based on Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr.
(Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli
Hernandez against Ford; (12) Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr.
(Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli
Hernandez against Ford; (13) Wrongful Death based Negligence by Plaintiffs
Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (14) Survival based
on Negligence by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. as the Successor-In-Interest
to Brianna Sanchez against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (15) Bystander Liability
based on Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as
Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Paccar,
Inc. dba Kenworth; (16) Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr.
(Individually and as Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli
Hernandez against Paccar, Inc. dba Kenworth; (17) Wrongful Death based
Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. against Tutor Perini
Corporation, Zachry Construction Corporation, Parsons Corporation; (18)
Survival based on Negligence by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. as the
Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez against Tutor Perini Corporation,
Zachry Construction Corporation, Parsons Corporation; (19) Bystander Liability
based on Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as
Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Tutor
Perini Corporation, Zachry Construction Corporation, Parsons Corporation; (20)
Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad
Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Tutor Perini
Corporation, Zachry Construction Corporation, Parsons Corporation; (21) Wrongful
Death based Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. against Deudiel
Juarez Ramirez, and H & M Trucking And Equipment Rental of Dinuba; (22) Survival
based on Negligence by Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. as the
Successor-In-Interest to Brianna Sanchez against Deudiel Juarez Ramirez, and H
& M Trucking And Equipment Rental of Dinuba; (23) Bystander Liability based
on Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as
Guardian Ad Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Deudiel
Juarez Ramirez, and H & M Trucking And Equipment Rental of Dinuba; and (24)
Negligence by Plaintiffs Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. (Individually and as Guardian Ad
Litem for E. Sanchez), and Araceli Hernandez against Deudiel Juarez
Ramirez, and H & M Trucking And Equipment Rental of Dinuba.
            On December 22, 2023, Defendant Ford
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike portions of the complaint.  On January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  On January 18, 2024,
Defendant Ford filed a reply.  On January
23, 2024, the instant action was deemed a complicated personal injury matter
and was reassigned to the current department. 
(Minute Order 1/23/24.)  On
February 22, 2024, Defendant Ford gave notice of rescheduling the instant
motion to March 7, 2024 in the instant department.
 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
            The complaint alleges that:
            On May 10, 2020, Plaintiffs Alejandro
Sanchez, Sr., Araceli Hernandez, and their minor son E. Sanchez, and their
minor daughter Brianna Sanchez were owners, operators and/or occupants of a
2004 Lincoln Navigator “stopped in traffic northbound on State Route 99 near a
construction zone (hereinafter referred to as the "HSRA Construction
Zone") south of Mountain View Avenue in an unincorporated area of Fresno
County, California.”  (Complaint ¶
13.)  
             “At all relevant times, the 2004 Lincoln
Navigator was designed, manufactured, sold, distributed and otherwise provided
by [Ford], as a defective product, including without limitation a defective
fuel line, defective gasoline tank, defective seat belts, defective ingress and
egress, defective design, lack of warnings, and other defects according to
proof at trial.”  (Id. ¶ 15.)  
            “On May 10, 2020, defendants,
Ramirez and H & M Trucking, operated a motor vehicle, a Kenworth Truck
Tractor (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Kenworth’), northbound on State Route
99 approaching the HSRA Construction Zone. At said time and place, Ramirez and
H & M Trucking collided their Kenworth into the rear end of the 2004
Lincoln Navigator. Due to the above described defects in the 2004 Lincoln
Navigator, plaintiffs' Lincoln Navigator exploded into fire. Further, the above
described defects in the 2004 Lincoln Navigator prevented Brianna Sanchez to
escape or be rescued from the flaming 2004 Lincoln Navigator; she was burned
alive, and died in the fire.”  (Id.
¶ 16.)  
 
Legal Standard 
Demurrer
Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts “give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and read it
in context.”  (Schifando v. City of
Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefor’e, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike
Standard
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages,
etc.).  (See CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party
may file a motion to strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading.  However, if a
party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to the complaint,
the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§
435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP § 436.) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleadings or by way of judicial notice. 
(CCP § 437.)
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  There is a similar
meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (CCP § 435.5.)
Defendant Ford has
fulfilled the meet and confer requirement. 
(Solorio Decl. ¶¶ 2-6, Exhs. A-C.)[2]
 
Discussion -
Demurrer
Ninth, Tenth,
Eleventh and Twelfth Causes of Action – Negligence            
            Defendant Ford contends that the ninth,
tenth, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action against it – i.e., the negligence
claims against Ford – fail because Plaintiffs fail to allege a duty of care
owed to Plaintiffs by Ford.
            “In any action for wrongful death
resulting from negligence, the complaint must contain allegations as to all the
elements of actionable negligence.”  (Jacoves
v. United Merchandising Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 105.)  Therefore, “[P]laintiff[s] must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff[s] a
duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach
proximately caused the plaintiff[‘s] damages or injuries.”  (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)  “Negligence
involves the violation of a legal duty imposed by statute, contract or
otherwise, by the defendant to the person injured, e.g., the deceased in a
wrongful death action.”  (Jacoves,
supra, 9 Cal.App.4th at p.105.)  
            Here, the complaint alleges that the
2004 Lincoln Navigator was designed, manufactured, sold, distributed and
otherwise provided by Ford and had a “defective fuel line, defective gasoline
tank, defective seat belts, defective ingress and egress, defective design,
[and] lack of warnings[.]”  (Complaint ¶
15.)  “[Ford] failed to exercise
reasonable skill and care and were otherwise negligent in the manufacture,
sale, distribution, retail and other provision of the 2004 Lincoln Navigator,
including without limitation the design, ingress and egress, fuel line,
gasoline tank, seat belts, warnings, and other parts, components,
representations and omissions according to proof at trial.”  (Id. ¶ 69.)  Ford’s failure to exercise reasonable care
resulted in the car exploding into fire and the death of decedent Brianna
Sanchez who was an occupant of the 2004 Lincoln Navigator.  (Id. ¶¶ 13, 16, 70.)
            Though the allegations are sparse,
nothing further is required to state a claim as California follows a notice pleading standard,
(See e.g., Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th
279, 305, Fn. 14), and the pleadings are generally liberally construed.  (CCP § 452, [“In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”].)
Moreover, the complaint
does set forth sufficient facts indicating a duty owed to the decedent, Brianna
Sanchez.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Ford manufactured the 2004 Lincoln Navigator. 
(Complaint ¶ 15.)  As such, Ford
owed a duty to provide consumers such as Plaintiffs with a defect-free
product.  (Ford v. Polaris Industries,
Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 755, 768 [“[U]nquestionably a manufacturer has
a duty to provide consumers with defect-free products[.]”].)  
            Accordingly, Defendant Ford’s
demurrer to the negligence claims for failure to allege a duty owed is
OVERRULED.
 
Second and Tenth
Causes of Action – Survival Causes of Action as Successor-in-Interest
            Defendant Ford asserts that
Plaintiff Alejandro Sanchez, Sr. fails to file the required affidavit under
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32 to bring a successor-in-interest claim.
            “Under [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 377.30, a ‘cause of action that survives the death of the person
entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent's successor
in interest, ... and an action may be commenced by the decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.’”  (Aghaian v. Minassian (2021) 64
Cal.App.5th 603, 614.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.32 requires the ‘person who seeks to commence an action
or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent's
successor in interest’ to file an affidavit stating, among other things, that ‘
“No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent's estate” ’ and ‘[i]f the decedent's estate was administered, a copy
of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent's cause of action
to the successor in interest.’ Literally, this provision does not require that
the affidavit be filed as a condition precedent to commencing or continuing the
action. However, failure to file the affidavit could possibly subject the
action to a plea in abatement.”  (Parsons
v. Tickner (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1523–1524.)
            The failure to file the required
affidavit under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32 does not render the complaint
a nullity or otherwise render  the
complaint insufficient.  (Aghaian,
supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at p.614.)  Rather,
“at most, ‘failure to file the affidavit could possibly subject the action to a
plea in abatement.’[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  Therefore, the failure to file the required
affidavit does not support the demurrer to the complaint.  
            Moreover, in opposition, Plaintiffs
have filed the required affidavit pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
377.32.  (See Brown Decl. attached
to Opposition.)  Thus, any plea in
abatement that Defendant Ford might wish to bring is no longer be
warranted.  
            Accordingly, Defendant Ford’s
demurrer to the second and tenth causes of action is OVERRULED.


Discussion –
Motion to Strike
Defendant
Ford moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages.
 
Punitive Damages
California Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), provides: “In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id. at
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id. at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus
require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) 
Moreover, a demand
for punitive damages for the commission of any tort requires more than the mere
conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294; see Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal. App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
“[A] punitive damages award may properly be entered in a strict products
liability suit.”  ( Loomis v.
Amazon.com LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 466, 475, Fn. 4.)
Here, the
complaint alleges that “[a]t all times relevant, [Ford] knew or had reason to
know that the 2004 Lincoln Navigator was designed, manufactured, sold,
distributed and otherwise provided by [Ford] as a defective product, including
without limitation a defective fuel line, defective gasoline tank, defective
seat belts, defective ingress and egress, defective design, lack of warnings,
and other defects according to proof at trial. Such acts and omissions of
defendants, and each of them, were committed in a deliberate, cold, callous,
malicious, fraudulent, willful and intentional manner with a conscious
disregard of the safety of occupants of the 2004 Lincoln Navigator, including
without limitation Brianna Sanchez. Plaintiff seeks punitive damages against
defendants in an amount appropriate to punish or set an example of them.”  (Complaint ¶ 23.)  This allegation is more than mere conclusory
allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice[.]” (Perkins, supra, 117 Cal. App.3d at pp.6-7.)  
Thus, the complaint
alleges that Ford knew or should have known of serious life-threatening defects
such as a defective fuel line that could have and did result in a fire killing
decedent, and Ford did not take action to remedy the defect.  Though these allegations do not include any facts
as to how Ford knew or should have known about the defect in the 2004 Lincoln
Navigator, a complaint is not required to set forth every fact that may
ultimately be proved but such ultimate facts must be clearly alleged.  (Rutherford Holdings, LLC, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at p.236, [“Defendants argue that Rutherford failed to allege
specific facts to support an alter ego theory, but Rutherford was required to
allege only ‘ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.’”].)  
Accordingly,
Defendant Ford’s motion to strike is DENIED.
            
CONCLUSIONS AND ORDER
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Ford Motor Company’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendant
is to file an answer no later than April 8, 2024.
Plaintiff
has filed proof of service of the Summons and Complaint as to certain
defendants who have not responded though the time for them to file a responsive
pleading has lapsed.  Specifically, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of
the summons and complaint on Paccar Inc. on July 24, 2023, but Paccar Inc. has
not responded.  Plaintiff has failed to file and serve a statement of
damages.  Plaintiff has also failed to seek Paccar Inc.'s default.
4/12/24
at 8:30 am - OSC re sanctions for entry of default.  Plaintiff’s Counsel
is ordered to appear on 4/12/24 at 8:30 am and explain why sanctions
(including monetary sanctions of at least $500 and/or dismissal) should not be
imposed for failure to cause entry of default as to all served defendants who
have not responded.
If
defaults have not all been entered at that time, then no later than five days
before the OSC hearing, Plaintiff’s Counsel is also to file a declaration
explaining the failure to obtain entry of defaults as to all served defendants
who have not responded and explaining any and all efforts undertaken to seek
their defaults. 
The
Case Management Conference is continued to 4/12/24 at 8:30 am.
            Moving Party Ford is to give notice of
this order and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: 
March ___, 2024                                                    ___________________________
Elaine Lu
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court 
 


