 Case Number:  23AHCV02132    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE RODRIGUEZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORD
   MOTOR COMPANY,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02132
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT FORD MOTOR COMPANY’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
   PLEADINGS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   16, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 14, 2023, plaintiff Jose
Rodriguez filed this action against defendants Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”)
and WC Performance Ford dba Performance Ford. Plaintiff alleges that on April
15, 2022, he purchased a new 2022 Ford Explorer (the “Subject Vehicle”).
(Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that the Subject Vehicle had a defective
ten-speed automatic transmission (the “10R80 Transmission Defect”) which caused
“abrupt harsh shift, erratic shifting, jerking (commonly known as “juddering or
“shuddering”), lunging while slowing down, hesitation between gears, lack of
acceleration, loss of power, stalling, slipping gears, failure to change gears,
clunking or banging noises, and other drivability concerns that impede the
driver’s safety, each and all of which prevent a 10R80 equipped vehicle from
operating as intended by the driver.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
On November 22, 2023, Defendant moved
for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for
fraudulent concealment. It argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
fraudulent concealment fails to state sufficient facts and is barred by the
economic loss rule.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
438, the court may grant a defendant’s motion for judgment on a pleading on
several grounds, including the ground that the pleading “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “The grounds for motion provided for in
this section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any
matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (d).) "The standard for granting a motion for judgment
on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general
demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that
may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) The court treats the complaint as “admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Schonfeldt v. State of California (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1465.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
“Concealment is a species of fraud or
deceit.” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858, 868.) It occurs “the defendant conceals from the plaintiff a
material fact of the subject matter of the transaction that the defendant has a
duty to disclose.” (Barnhouse v. City of Pinole (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d
171, 187.) "[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage." (Marketing
West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612–613.)
"In California, fraud must be pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice." (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) "[E]very element of a
cause of action for fraud must be alleged both factually and specifically[.]” (Cooper
v. Equity Gen. Insurance (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1252, 1262.) However, an
exception exists, by which less specificity is required when, due to the nature
of the allegations, the defendant possesses more facts of the fraudulent act
than the plaintiff. (Committee On Children's Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217.)
A.  
Whether
Plaintiff Has Pled Fraud With Sufficient Particularity 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
pleading fails because he did not plead fraud with the requisite level of
particularity. Specifically, it argues that Plaintiff did not allege sufficiently
facts suggesting that it “knowingly concealed” the alleged 10R80 Defect prior
to Plaintiff’s purchase date because technical service bulletins (“TSBs”)
cannot be used to establish knowledge of an alleged defect. (Motion, p. 3.)
Defendant also argues that these TSBs were available to the public. Defendant additionally
claims that Plaintiff did not plead facts showing that it owed Plaintiff a duty
to disclose information. 
Plaintiff adequately alleges that Defendant
“knowingly concealed” the alleged 10R80 Defect because Defendant allegedly had
knowledge “when it began receiving consumer complaints from NHSTA” and “knew
that the 10R80 transmissions installed in its vehicles were prematurely failing
[and] requiring repeated repair or replacement.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendant “tracks and monitors warranty spending by component
part” and that knowledge of defects were “enhanced by its regular internal review
of warranty spending on repairs for the 10R80 transmission and its component
parts.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) Additionally, Defendant’s technical service bulletins
attributed the 10R80 Defect to vehicles that simply needed “to be broken-in” and
claimed that “abrupt and harsh shifting is normal.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) The TSBs
also directed Defendant’s dealerships to inform customers that the vehicle is
equipped with an “adaptive transmission shift strategy which allows the
vehicle’s computer to learn the transmission’s unique parameters and improve
shift quality.” (Id., ¶¶ 22.) These specific allegations are sufficient
to allege that Defendant knowingly concealed the defect with the 10R80 transmissions.
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has not sufficiently pled a duty to disclose. A duty to disclose exists under
four circumstances: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Heliotis v.
Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) The latter three circumstances are
“transactions” which create the relationship and attendant duty to disclose. (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.) 
Plaintiff argues in his Opposition that
Defendant’s duty to disclose is based on its “superior knowledge of the
transmission and its defects since at least 2018” and Defendant “knew or should
have known” about the safety hazard posed by the defective transmissions based
on pre-market testing, consumer complaints, warranty claims for repairs, and
other sources which drove Defendant to issue TSBs and recalls acknowledging the
transmission’s defect. (Opp., 10.) 
The Court notes this issue was
addressed in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
828, wherein the plaintiffs sued Nissan North America, Inc. alleging a
transmission defect. The Dhital plaintiffs alleged claims under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that
Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car. (Dhital
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828 at 838). The California Supreme Court granted
review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however, the request for
depublication was denied. Since review is pending and the Supreme Court did not
otherwise order the case depublished, Dhital does not have binding
effect and “may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (CRC, Rule
8.1115 (e)(1).)
Although Dhital is currently on review,
the Court finds its analysis persuasive. The Dhital court held
plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a transactional relationship because they
alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that the car was
backed by Nissan warranty, and that Nissan dealerships are authorized agents. (Dhital
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828 at 844.) Here too, Plaintiff alleges he purchased the
Vehicle from Defendant’s authorized dealership and that it was backed by a
warranty. (Compl, ¶ 4.) 
B.  
Plaintiff’s
Claim Falls Under the Fraud Exception to The Economic Loss Rule
“Where a purchaser's expectations in a
sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’
losses.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th
979, 988 [Robinson].) The policy behind the economic loss rule is that a
defect in a product is simply damage to the product itself and is therefore
covered under the warranty. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 989.)
Unless there is to damage to “other property,” there can be no liability in
tort.
There is an exception, however, by
which a plaintiff may recover tort damages in a contract case when the contract
was fraudulently induced. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 989.)
The rationale is that fraud removes the dispute from the parties’ contractual
agreement because "[n]o rational party would enter into a contract
anticipating that they are or will be lied to." (Id. at p. 993.)
Again, the parties discuss Dhital,
in which the First District held in a Song-Beverly vehicle defect case that the
plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim against the vehicle manufacturer was
not barred by the economic loss rule. As stated above, our Supreme Court is
currently reviewing this case, such that its holding is merely persuasive.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(e)(1); Dhital v. Nissan N. America
(2023) 523 P.3d 392.) However, Dhital has not been disapproved of by
other California appellate courts; and has only been disapproved of by a few
(and certainly not all) federal courts. Additionally, it does not contradict Robinson.
In Dhital, the purchasers of a vehicle accused the manufacturer, Nissan,
of fraudulently concealing an allegedly known transmission defect. (Dhital,
supra, at 834.) The First District held that the fraud exception to the
economic loss rule, as expressed in Robinson, applied because
"Plaintiffs allege that Nissan, by intentionally concealing facts about
the defective transmission, fraudulently induced them to purchase a car."
(Id., 838.) Acknowledging that Robinson applied the exception to
fraudulent misrepresentation rather than concealment, the appellate court
nonetheless held that the reasoning applied to the plaintiffs’ fraudulent
concealment claim, too. (Dhital, supra, at 841.)
Under Dhital, the exception
applies to Plaintiff’s own claim, as Plaintiff’s facts are the same as those in
Dhital. Although Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim is distinct
because it is based on its alleged non-performance under the contract, this
characterization dismisses Plaintiff’s allegations that Ford “[failed to
disclose the 10R80 defect” at the time Plaintiff purchased or leased the
vehicle and each time the vehicle was presented for repair. (Compare
Motion, p. 12 with Compl., ¶ 91.) Plaintiff also alleges that, had he
known of the 10R80 defect, he would not have bought the Vehicle. (Id.,
¶¶ 92-93, 95.) 
Based on this language, Plaintiff’s
fraudulent concealment claim is rooted in the sale of the Vehicle. The facts
are not analogous to Defendants’ authority, Food Safety Net Servs. v. Eco
Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 118 (Eco Safe). In Eco
Safe, a manufacturer of food disinfection equipment, Eco Safe, accused a
testing agency, Food Safety, of making fraudulent statements to induce Eco Safe
into hiring Food Safety to assess the efficacy of its disinfection product. The
Court of Appeal held that Eco Safe’s fraud claim arose from their contract.
This was because the alleged fraudulent statements were that Food Safety would
perform the tests in a specific manner; and the contract between Eco Safe and
Food Safety contained terms that explicitly reflected the requirement to
utilize this manner of testing. (Id., 1125.) Since Eco Safe was accusing
Food Safety of failing to conduct the tests in this manner, Eco Safe was
disputing Food Safety’s performance under the contract.
Here, the Court is unaware of any term
in the warranty under which Defendant promised to disclose all material defects
affecting the Vehicle. This is the conduct that Plaintiff accuses Defendant of
failing to do. The warranty, on the other hand, is a promise to fix certain
defects that the purchaser becomes aware of; there is no obligation for Defendant
to affirmatively disclose any defects under the warranty.
Therefore, the Court is satisfied that
Plaintiff has pled allegations sufficient to satisfy the fraud exception to the
economic loss rule.
Dated
this 16th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 