  Case Number:  23AHCV00408    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CHAO XU, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHENGLI
   GE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00408
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

January
   16, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On February 23, 2023, plaintiff Chao Xu
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Shengli Ge (“Ge”), Peng Liang Gong
(“Gong”, erroneously sued as “Liang Peng Gong”), and CTC Investment Properties,
Inc. dba Re/Max Advanced Realty (“CTC”). On April 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
First Amended Complaint. On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s request to dismiss Gong
from the action without prejudice was entered. 
On August 11, 2023, the Court sustained
Ge and CTC’s (collectively, “Defendants”) demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of
action for professional negligence with leave to amend. On September 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On October 3, Defendants filed
a demurrer directed towards Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Professional Negligence
 
Plaintiff alleges that he owns real
property located at 4918 Lone Acres Ct in Rancho Cucamonga (the “Property”) and
that he signed an exclusive right to lease contract with Ge and CTC, wherein
Defendants would provide leasing, tenant search and screening, and property
management services. (SAC, ¶ 11.) Around September 2019, Ge informed Plaintiff
that he found a tenant to rent his Property. (SAC, ¶ 14.) This tenant, Grayson
Bosworth, would occupy the property with his three children, Tina, Paul, and
Gary. (SAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that on or about March 2020, he stopped
receiving any rent payment when the tenant was no longer paying rent and was
unable to collect rent between March 27, 2020, and October 2022. (SAC, ¶¶ 22-26.)
Plaintiff claims that he learned sometime around October 2022 that the tenant
living at the property was not “Grayson Bosworth” and the tenant refused to
apply for rent relief. (SAC, ¶¶ 30-34.) 
Plaintiff claims that CTC and Ge are liable because they were his agents
and failed to conduct a background investigation or credit check on the tenant.
(SAC, ¶ 35-37.) 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept
the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters
which may be judicially noticed. 
[Citation.]”  (Mitchell v. California
Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the
facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they
may be”].)  Allegations are to be
liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  
III.       
DISCUSSION
As before, Defendants claim that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for professional negligence is barred by the
economic loss rule because it is simply a restatement of his contract claims
and does not violate an independent duty arising from tort law. (Demurrer, p.
4.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot escape the economic loss rule by
identifying damage to his Property, as he does in the SAC, allegedly caused by
Defendants’ alleged failure to conduct background checks on Bosworth. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
property damage caused by Bosworth was a result of Defendants’ failure to
conduct a background check and is sufficient to overcome the economic loss
rule. 
On reply, Defendants point to a
contract provision which provides that Plaintiff will:
[i]ndemnify,
defend and hold harmless Property Manager, and all persons in Property
Manager's firm, as permitted by law, from all costs, expenses, suits,
liabilities, damages, attorney fees and claims of every type, including but not
limited to those arising out of injury or death of any person, or damage to any
real or personal property of any person, including Owner, (i) for any repairs
performed by Owner or by others hired directly by Owner; (ii) for those acts
relating to the management, leasing, rental, security deposits, or operation of
the Property by Property Manager, or any person in Property Manager's firm, or
the performance or exercise of any of the duties, powers or authorities granted
to Property Manager; or (iii) from any incorrect or incomplete information
supplied by Owner, or from any material facts that Owner knows but fails to
disclose including dangerous or hidden conditions on the Premises.
 
(SAC, Ex. 1, p. 2.) 
          Based on this
language, it appears that the contract between Plaintiff and Defendants
exculpates Defendants from liability for damage to real property as well as for
Defendants’ own negligence. However, Under Tunkl v. Regents of University of
Cal. (1963) 60 Cal.2d 92, 101, exculpatory provisions allowing a party to
escape its own negligence are unenforceable if they affect the public interest.
In placing particular contracts within or without the category of those
affected with a public interest, courts consider whether the contract concerns
a business of a type generally thought suitable for public regulation,
including whether the party seeking exculpation is engaged in performing a
service of great importance to the public, which is often a matter of practical
necessity for some members of the public. Courts also look to whether the party
seeking to be exculpated holds himself out as willing to perform this service
for any member of the public who seeks it, or at least for any member coming
within certain established standards. Also, a court considers whether, as a
result of the essential nature of the service, in the economic setting of the
transaction, the party invoking exculpation possesses a decisive advantage of
bargaining strength against any member of the public who seeks his services.” “In
exercising a superior bargaining power the party confronts the public with a
standardized adhesion contract of exculpation and makes no provision whereby a
purchaser may pay additional reasonable fees and obtain protection against
negligence.” Additionally, the person or property of one contracting party is
placed under the control of the other, subject to the risk of carelessness by
the other or its agents. 
          Based on an
analysis of these factors expressed in Tunkl, it appears that the
provision on which Defendants rely to evade tort liability for their own
negligence is unenforceable. Accordingly, because Plaintiff has amended the
complaint to add allegations of property damage, Defendants’ demurrer to the
SAC based on the economic loss rule is OVERRULED. 
 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Dated
this 16th
 day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 