  Case Number:  20STCV20443    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CRAIG STEVEN
  ROBERTS, et al., 
  
         vs.
 
DOES 1
  THROUGH 250.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV20443
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 14, 2023



 
Plaintiffs Craig Steven Roberts’
and Carla Roxanna Roberts’ motion
for a protective order against all Defendants is granted in part and denied in
part.
Defendants Dyno Nobel, Inc.’s and Alpha Dyno Nobel’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is overruled.
Specially Appearing Defendant International Fireworks
Manufacturing Co.’s unopposed motion to quash Plaintiffs’ service of
summons and complaint is granted. 
International Fireworks Manufacturing Co. is dismissed from this action.
 
          Plaintiffs Craig Steven Roberts (“Craig”) and Carla Roxanna
Roberts (“Carla”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
move for a protective order against all Defendants requiring them to propound
all discovery regarding common issues jointly on behalf of all Defendants.  (Notice of Motion PO, pg. 1; C.C.P. §§2017.020,
2019.030, 2030.090, 2031.060, 2032.510, 2033.080.)  
Specifically,
Plaintiffs request an order that Defendants shall jointly propound written
discovery regarding the following topics: (1) Judicial Council Form
Interrogatories (except Form Interrogatory No. 17.1); (2) Plaintiff’s work
history; (3) Plaintiff’s work records; (4) The identity of persons who
supervised and/or worked with Plaintiff; (5) Plaintiff’s medical records; (6)
Plaintiff’s medical history; (7) Plaintiff’s medication history; (8) Plaintiff’s
family history; (9) Plaintiff’s residential history; (10) Plaintiff’s social
history; (11) Plaintiff’s hospitalization history; (12) Plaintiff’s surgical
history; (13) Plaintiff’s smoking history; (14) Plaintiff’s controlled
substance use history; (15) Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation claims; (16) Plaintiff’s
litigation history; (17) Plaintiff’s medical diagnoses; (18) Potential causes
of Plaintiff’s medical conditions; (19) Plaintiff’s current medical condition;
(20) Plaintiff’s medical bills and payment thereof; (21) Plaintiff’s medication
bills and payment thereof; (22) Plaintiff’s immigration status; (23) Plaintiff’s
health insurance information; (24) Plaintiff’s occupational disability records;
(25) Plaintiff’s other disability records; (26) Plaintiff’s social security
records; (27) OSHA investigations, inspections, and citations of facilities
where Plaintiff worked; (28) Investigations and inspections by other agencies
of facilities where Plaintiff worked; (29) Plaintiff’s injuries; (30) Plaintiff’s
general damages for pain, suffering and disfigurement; (31) Plaintiff’s damages
for loss of earnings, loss of income, and lost earning capacity; (32) Plaintiff’s
damages for past, present and future medical expenses; (33) Plaintiff’s other
damages; and (34) All discovery to Carla Roxanna Roberts regarding her claim
for loss of consortium.  (Notice of Motion PO, pg. 2.)  
Further,
Plaintiffs request all motions to compel responses to such discovery shall be brought
jointly by all Defendants who are dissatisfied with Plaintiffs’ responses to
the jointly propounded discovery, and any Defendant may individually propound
discovery regarding its own products, but that discovery shall not contain more
than 35 requests without first obtaining leave of court.  (Notice of Motion PO, pg. 2.)  
Defendants
Dyno Nobel, Inc. (“Dyno Inc.”) and Alpha Dyno Nobel (“Alpha Dyno”)
(collectively, “Demurring Defendants”) demur to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th,
and 6th causes of action in Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 2-4; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)
Specially
Appearing Defendant International Fireworks Manufacturing Co. (“IFMC”) specially
appears unopposed to move to quash Plaintiffs’ service of summons and
complaint on the grounds that (i) there was no valid service of summons, and
(ii) the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over IFMC, because IFMC is a
corporation formed under the laws of Pennsylvania with its principal place of business
in Pennsylvania, and because Plaintiffs have provided no evidence that their
claims against IFMC arise from any of its activities that took place within the
State of California or that IFMC purposefully availed itself of the benefits of
the State of California.  (Notice of Motion
Quash, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §418.10(a)(1).)
 
          Background
On May 28, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint. 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Southwest Drilling, Inc., dba Southwest Explosives
(“Southwest Drilling”) [previously sued as Doe No. 1]; Alpha Dyno [previously
sued as Doe No. 2]; Austin Powder Company (“Austin Powder”) [previously
sued as Doe No. 3]; Cannon Fuse, Inc. (“Cannon Fuse”) [previously sued
as Doe No. 4]; Donovan Commercial Industries, Inc. (“Donovan Commercial”) [previously
sued as Doe No. 5]; Dyno Inc. [previously sued as Doe No. 6]; E.B.
Stone & Son, Inc. (“EB Stone”) [previously sued as Doe No. 7]; Goex
Powder, Inc. (“Goex”) [previously sued as Doe No. 8]; Hodgdon Powder
Company, Inc. (“Hodgdon”) [previously sued as Doe No. 9]; IFMC [previously
sued as Doe No. 10]; New River Energetics, Inc. (“New River”) [previously
sued as Doe No. 11]; Orica USA [previously sued as Doe No. 12];[1]
Slurry Explosive Corporation (“Slurry Explosive”) [previously sued as Doe
No. 13]; W.A. Murphy California Drilling & Blasting Co., Inc. (“WA
Murphy”) [previously sued as Doe No. 14]; Walter Andersen Enterprises
(“Walter Andersen”) [previously sued as Doe No. 15]; and Aldon
Corporation (“Aldon”) [previously sued as Doe No. 16][2],
alleging six causes of action: (1) negligence; (2) strict liability- warning
defect; (3) strict liability- design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5)
breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.  (See
FAC.)   
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for
protective order.  On November 3, 2023, Austin Powder filed its opposition
to the motion for protective order.  On
November 3, 2023, Walter Andersen, EB Stone, Cannon Fuse, and WA Murphy filed
their joinders to Austin Powder’s opposition.  On November 9, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their reply in support of the motion for protective order.  
On September 27, 2023, Demurring Defendants filed their
demurrer.  Plaintiffs filed their
opposition to the demurrer on January 31, 2024. 
As of the date of this hearing no reply has been filed.
Specially Appearing Defendant IFMC filed its motion to quash on
December 11, 2023.  As of the date of
this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
1.     Motion
for Protective Order
Meet
and Confer
          Plaintiffs’ counsel declares he met
and conferred with all defense counsel by sending a written letter to them on
September 7, 2023, asking all counsel to withdraw or withhold their pending
discovery requests and agree to submit discovery jointly instead.  (Decl. of Metzger ¶¶7, 12, Exh. A.)  The Court finds Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
declaration states facts showing a “reasonable and good faith
attempt” to resolve the matter outside of court.  (C.C.P. §§2016.040, 2033.080(a).) 
 
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §2033.080(b) provides that a party that has received
discovery may file a motion for a protective order, seeking a variety of types
of orders “that justice requires to protect any party from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense.”
The decision upon whether to enter a protective order lies within
the sound discretion of the court.  (Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 584, 588, 591; Meritplan Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1981)
124 Cal.App.3d 237, 242.)  Moving parties have the burden to show good
cause for protective order.  (Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997)
16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110.)   
 
          Discussion
Plaintiffs’ motion for
protective order is granted.  Plaintiffs
met their burden to demonstrate they need protection from the undue burden and
expense of responding to Defendants’ discovery that would likely exceed 4,000
responses.  
Plaintiffs attached discovery
requests from Alpha Dyno, Dyno Inc., Cannon Fuse, and EB Stone which show duplicative
documentary requests and interrogatories.  (Decl. of Metzger ¶¶9-11, Exhs. C, D, E.)
Overall, Defendants will not
suffer prejudice from being ordered to jointly propound discovery on common
issues to Plaintiffs because such an order does not prevent Defendants from
conducting reasonable discovery regarding their individual products.
However, Plaintiffs’ proposed
protective order presents some problems. First,
Plaintiffs present no basis that discovery on damages would be the same for all
Defendants, particularly with regard to punitive damages.  Second, Plaintiffs present no basis for
overriding C.C.P. §2030.040, which allows a party to propound more than 35
interrogatories if counsel provides a declaration establishing that more than
35 are warranted given the complexity or quantity of issues in the case.  Third, Plaintiffs present no basis for requiring
that any motion to compel by a defendant be joint with all other defendants.  Therefore, the Court declines to grant these
portions of Plaintiffs’ protective order.

Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’
motion for protective order is granted except that 
1)    Defendants may each propound
discovery on the issue of any basis for liability for punitive damages;
2)      Defendants may propound more than 35
interrogatories if counsel provides a declaration establishing that more than
35 are warranted given the complexity or quantity of issues in the case; and
3)    Defendants’ motions to compel
need not be joint with all other defendants. 

 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ motion for a
protective order is granted in part and denied in part.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
2.     Demurrer
Summary
of Demurrer
Demurring
Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of
action on the basis they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action and they are uncertain. 
(Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)[3]
 
Meet
and Confer
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Demurring
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states that on August 30, 2023, he sent a
meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiffs’ counsel via email addressing the
deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ operative complaint.  (Decl. of Cho ¶3, Exh. A.)  Demurring Defendants’ counsel’s declaration
states that on August 30, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed that the complaint
is properly pled and advised Demurring Defendants’ counsel to file a demurrer
if they felt they must.  (Decl. of Cho ¶4,
Exh. B.)  Demurring Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration is insufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3) because he does not
indicate parties met and conferred in person or by telephone, as required by
the statute.  However, failure to
sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal
Standard
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure
to State a Claim
Negligence (1st COA)
A cause of action for negligence requires the following elements:
(1) legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation;
and (4) damage to plaintiff.  (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318; Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
A
cause of action for negligence based on a toxic tort product liability must
meet the pleading requirements articulated in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical
Co., Inc. Plaintiffs need to allege facts supporting each of the
following: (1) “exposure” to each product claimed to have caused a specific
illness; (2) the identity of each product that allegedly caused the
injury; (3) that a particular toxin each product, specifically
identified, entered into the body; (4) that exposure to each product was a
substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating a
specific illness; and (5) that each product was manufactured or supplied
by a named defendant.  (Bockrath v.
Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 78-80; see Rutherford
v. Owens, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 978 [setting forth
“substantial factor” causation standard, on which Bockrath relies].)
Plaintiffs allege the following chemical products were exposed to
Craig in the course of his employment, which caused his toxic injuries and
occupational diseases: Dyno Fragmax Ammonium Nitrate Bulk (Alpha Dyno), Superprill
(Dyno Inc.), LoDAN (Dyno Inc.), and HiDan (Dyno Inc.)  (FAC ¶20.)
Plaintiffs allege in the course of and throughout Craig’s employment
as a K-9 Bomb Unit trainer, he worked with and was exposed to lead, mercury,
organic peroxides, oxidizing agents, explosives, solvents, and other chemical
products which will be identified during the course of investigation and
discovery.  (FAC ¶22.)
Plaintiffs allege as chemical manufacturers and distributors,
Defendants owed Plaintiff a legal duty to exercise due care in importing,
producing, and distributing the foregoing chemical products to Plaintiff’s
places of employment.  (FAC ¶37.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants negligently and
carelessly imported, produced, and distributed the foregoing chemical products
to Plaintiff’s places of employment, where Craig was exposed to said toxic
chemical products.  (FAC ¶38.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants also failed to
adequately warn Craig and Craig’s employers of the hazards of said toxic
chemical products and failed to provide adequate instructions to Craig and Craig’s
employers for the safe handling and use of said toxic chemical products.  (FAC ¶39.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants violated Labor Code §6390.5 and the Hazard
Communication Standard (8 C.C.R. §5194) in the importation, production, and
distribution of the toxic substances to which Craig Steven was so exposed by,
among other things:
(a)
failing and refusing to evaluate their products to determine if lead, mercury,
organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in
their products presented a health hazard of causing Multiple Sclerosis to
employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(d)(1)];
(b)
failing and refusing to identify and consider the available scientific evidence
to determine if the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and
other toxic chemicals contained in their products presented a health hazard of
causing Multiple Sclerosis to employees using or exposed to their products [8
C.C.R. §5194(d)(2) et seq.];
(c)
failing and refusing to identify their products as presenting a health hazard
of causing Multiple Sclerosis even though the lead, mercury, organic peroxides,
oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in their products
presented a health hazard of causing Multiple Sclerosis, to employees using or
exposed to their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(d)(5)];
(d)
failing and refusing to ensure that each container of their products was
labeled, tagged or marked to (i) identity the lead, mercury, organic peroxides,
oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in their products and (ii)
appropriately warn that the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents
and other toxic chemicals contained in their products presented a health hazard
of causing Multiple Sclerosis to employees using or exposed to their products
[8 C.C.R. §5194(f)(1)];
(e)
failing and refusing to obtain or develop a material safety data sheet for the
lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals
contained in their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(1)];
(f)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet the chemical
and common names for the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and
other toxic chemicals contained in their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(2)(A)];
(g)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet that the
lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals
contained in their products presented a health hazard of causing Multiple
Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R.
§5194(g)(2)(D)];
(h)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet the primary
routes of entry for the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and
other toxic chemicals contained in their products in respect of the health
hazard of causing Multiple Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their
products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(2)(E)];
(i)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet the OSHA permissible
exposure limit, ACGIH Threshold Limit Value, and any other exposure limit used
or recommended by defendants for the lead, mercury, organic peroxides,
oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in their products in
respect of the health hazard of causing Multiple Sclerosis, to employees using
or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(2)(F)];
(j)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet whether the
lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals
contained in their products is listed in the National Toxicology Program (NTP)
Annual Report on Carcinogens (latest edition) or has been found to be a
potential carcinogen in the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC)
Monographs (latest editions), or by OSHA [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(2)(G)];
(k)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet generally
applicable precautions for safe handling and use known to Defendants for the
lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals
contained in their products in respect of preventing the health hazard of
causing Multiple Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R.
§5194(g)(2)(H)];
(l)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet generally
applicable control measures known to Defendants for the lead, mercury, organic
peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in their
products in respect of preventing the health hazard of causing Multiple
Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R.
§5194(g)(2)(I)];
(m)
failing and refusing to include on the material safety data sheet or otherwise
the specific potential health risks posed by the lead, mercury, organic
peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals contained in their
products in respect of causing Multiple Sclerosis, to employees using or
exposed to their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(2)(M)];
(n)
failing and refusing to ensure that the information contained on material
safety data sheets accurately reflects the scientific evidence of the health
risks posed by the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other
toxic chemicals contained in their products in respect of causing Multiple
Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R.
§5194(g)(5)];
(o)
failing and refusing to update material safety data sheets with
newly-discovered significant information regarding the hazards of the lead,
mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals
contained in their products in respect of causing Multiple Sclerosis, to
employees using or exposed to their products [8 C.C.R. §5194(g)(5)]; and,
(p)
failing and refusing to ensure that material safety data sheets complying with
the Hazard Communication Standard (including specifying the potential health
risks posed by the lead, mercury, organic peroxides, oxidizing agents and other
toxic chemicals contained in their products in respect of causing Multiple
Sclerosis, to employees using or exposed to their products) were provided to
Plaintiff, Craig Steven Roberts’s employer at various locations in and around
Los Angeles County, California, directly or via a distributor. [8 C.C.R.
§5194(g)(6) & (7).]  
(FAC
¶43.)
          Plaintiffs allege Craig was exposed to
each of Defendants’ products, including those products manufactured and
supplied Defendants, as alleged above, and to the toxic chemicals contained
therein and released therefrom, as further alleged above.  (FAC ¶44.)
          Plaintiffs allege Craig was a member
of the class of persons designed to be
protected
by California Labor Code § 6390.5 and the Hazard Communication Standard (8
C.C.R. §5194).  (FAC ¶45.)
Plaintiffs
allege Craig was exposed to each of the foregoing toxic chemicals.  (FAC ¶46.) 
Plaintiffs allege each of the toxic chemical products to which
Plaintiff, Craig Steven Roberts, was exposed, was manufactured and/or supplied
by the foregoing Defendants, as set forth in the section entitled “Product
Identification” above.  (FAC ¶47.)  Plaintiffs allege as a result of Craig’s
exposure to the foregoing toxic chemical products, toxins within said toxic
chemicals including but not limited to lead, mercury, organic peroxides,
oxidizing agents and other toxic chemicals, entered Craig’s body.  (FAC ¶48.) 

Plaintiffs
allege Craig suffers from a specific illness, to wit, Multiple Sclerosis as
well as other related and consequential injuries.  (FAC ¶49.) 
Plaintiffs allege each of the foregoing toxic chemical products caused
Craig’s Multiple Sclerosis and other injuries. 
(FAC ¶50.)  Plaintiffs allege each
toxin, that entered Craig’s body was a substantial factor in bringing about,
prolonging, and aggravating his Multiple Sclerosis and other injuries.  (FAC ¶51.) 

Plaintiffs
allege as a direct and proximate result of said negligent acts and omissions of
Defendants, Craig suffers from Multiple Sclerosis and other related and
consequential medical conditions.  (FAC
¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege as a direct and
proximate result of said negligent acts and omissions of Defendants, Craig has
been required to expend money and incur obligations for medical and related
expenses in an amount not yet determined but which is well in excess of the
jurisdictional minimum of the Court, and Craig has been unable to attend to his
usual employment and activities.  (FAC
¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege as a further
direct and proximate result of the negligent acts and omissions of Defendants,
resulting in his severe toxic injuries, Craig has suffered lost income and will
continue to suffer loss of future income, support and maintenance, all to Craig’s
damage in a sum to be established according to proof.  (FAC ¶54.) 
Plaintiffs allege as a further direct and proximate result of the
actions and inactions of Defendants, resulting in severe toxic injuries, Craig
has suffered and will continue to suffer general damages to be established
according to proof at trial.  (FAC
¶55.)  
Plaintiffs’
cause of action for negligence stated facts sufficient to meet the standards
articulated in Bockrath.  Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege Craig was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to
have caused a specific illness, Multiple Sclerosis.  (FAC ¶¶22, 38, 46.)  Plaintiffs sufficiently identify the products
that allegedly caused Craig’s injury. 
(FAC ¶¶20, 50.)  Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege that as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered
Craig’s body.  (FAC ¶¶50-51.)  Plaintiffs sufficiently allege Craig suffers
from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a
substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating the
illness.  (FAC ¶¶49, 51-52.)  Plaintiffs sufficiently allege each toxin
Craig absorbed was manufactured or supplied by Demurring Defendants.  (FAC ¶¶44, 47, 60, 77, 99, 116.) 
Accordingly,
Demurring Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.)
Where a demurrer is made upon this ground, it must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears (by reference to page and line numbers of the complaint).  (See Fenton v. Groveland Community Services
District (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
Demurring Defendants fail to specify where the uncertainty appears
by reference to page line and numbers in the complaint.  (See id.)
Accordingly, Demurring Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Demurring
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ FAC is overruled.
Moving
party to give notice.
 
3.     Motion to Quash Service of
Summons
“A defendant, on or before
the day of his or her time to plead . . . may serve and file a notice of motion
. . . [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of
the court over him or her.”  (C.C.P.
§418.10(a)(1).)  By filing such motion,
“a defendant makes a special appearance for the narrow purpose of contesting
personal jurisdiction where the summons is defective.”  (Stancil v. Superior Court (2021) 11
Cal.5th 381, 393.)
“In the absence of a
voluntary submission to the authority of the court, compliance with the
statutes governing service of process is essential to establish that court’s
personal jurisdiction over a defendant.”  (Floveyer International, Ltd. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 793; see also Calvert v. Al Binali
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 954, 961 [“To establish personal jurisdiction, it is essential
to comply with the statutory procedures for service of process.”].) “When a
defendant challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving,
inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.”  (Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th
1154, 1160, internal quotations omitted.)
Effecting service on a
corporation requires delivery of summons and complaint to some person on behalf
of the corporation.  (C.C.P. §416.10; Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1437.)  Moreover, a plaintiff cannot simply mail a summons
and complaint to an out-of-state corporation and fail to address the same to a
specific, named individual authorized to accept service.  (See Dill, 24 Cal.App.4th at pg.
1437 [“Dill could be held to have substantially complied with the statute if,
despite his failure to address the mail to one of the persons to be served on
behalf of the defendants, the summons was actually received by one of the
persons to be served. [¶] Dill argues that that is exactly what happened here,
at least as to Strata. Noting (1) that L. Warner signed the postal receipt as
an “Agent,” and (2) that section 416.10 permits delivery of the summons to a
“person designated as agent for service of process” [citation omitted] or to “a
person authorized by the corporation to receive service of process” [citation
omitted], he concludes (3) that the summons was received by such an agent. He
is mistaken.”].)
Service may be made upon “the
president, chief executive officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice
president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant
treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, [or] a general manager.”  (C.C.P. §416.10(b).)
Service may also be made upon
“a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of process.” (C.C.P.
§416.10(b).)  This includes persons who
are designated as the corporation’s agent for service of process in various
statements which a domestic or foreign corporation is required to file with the
Secretary of State under various provisions of the Corporations Code.  (See C.C.P. §416.10(a).)  California corporations are required to
appoint a local agent for service of process in their articles of incorporation
and biennial information statement filed with the Secretary of State.  (See Corps. Code §202(c), §1502(b).)
Plaintiffs’ proofs of service
of summons of the initial Complaint and the FAC are defective because they state
they served “The Company Corporation, Registered Agent” at 251 Little Falls
Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808.  (5/18/23
Proof of Service IFMC; 9/20/23 Proof of Service IFMC.)  Here, like in Dill, there is no name on
the proof of service for the “Registered Agent.”  (Dill, 24 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1437.)  C.C.P. §416.10 requires the identification of
an actual person capable of accepting service on behalf of a corporation.  Plaintiffs’ request for entry of Default
against IFMC was also rejected by this Court’s clerk on the same basis.
Further, Plaintiffs failed to
comply with the mandatory three-year service requirement set forth in C.C.P. §§583.210
and 583.250.  Here,
Plaintiffs filed their initial Complaint on May 28, 2020.  The initial Complaint named only Doe
Defendants 1 through 250.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff had until May 28, 2023, to identify and serve any Doe Defendant.  Plaintiffs purportedly identified IFMC as a
Doe Defendant on or about May 1, 2023, when they named IFMC as Doe 10.  At that point, Plaintiffs were obligated to
serve IFMC by May 28, 2023, three years after the commencement of the action.  Plaintiffs’ initial service of the Complaint
on May 3, 2023, was defective for the same reasons stated earlier regarding
failure to name the agent for service of process.  (5/18/23 Proof of Service IFMC.)  Plaintiffs did not purportedly serve IFMC with
the FAC until September 6, 2023, after the three-year service deadline had
expired, and their proof of service for the FAC is for the same reasons its
earlier proof of service is defective.  (9/20/23 Proof of Service IFMC.)  
Further, C.C.P. §583.110
indicates that service is not complete without a return of the Summons to the
Court.  (C.C.P. §583.110; see also
In re Automobile Antitrust (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1249.)  There is no indication Plaintiffs complied
with this requirement by filing or returning the Summons with the Court.  Therefore, Plaintiffs did not complete
service of summons prior to the three-year deadline to do so, and their service
on IFMC was defective for this reason.
Accordingly, IFMC’s motion to
quash service of summons is granted and IFMC is dismissed from the action.
 
Conclusion
IFMC’s unopposed
motion to quash service of summons is granted. 
IFMC is dismissed from this action.
Plaintiff to give
notice.
 
Dated:  February _____, 2024
                                                                             





  