 Case Number:  22LBCV00518    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Pat
Amaka Levison filed this action against Defendants, Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook-Meta
on 9/28/22.  Plaintiff’s judicial council
form complaint indicates, on the cover page, that it sounds in contract.  At ¶8 of the complaint, however, in the space
where a plaintiff must list the causes of action asserted, Plaintiff does not
list any cause of action.  The crux of
the complaint is that someone, either from Facebook or a third party, hacked
Plaintiff’s account, and despite Plaintiff’s requests, Facebook has not
restored access to the account.    
 
On 2/16/23, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service of unspecified documents, by mail, on Zuckerberg.  On 4/03/23, Plaintiff filed a proof of
service of the summons, complaint, and related documents on Facebook-Meta by
serving its registered agent for service of process.  On 4/26/23, Meta Platforms, Inc., filed this
demurrer and related documents.  On 7/14/23,
Plaintiff filed opposition to the demurrer. 

 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares multiple attempts to meet and confer were
made, but Plaintiff did not respond. 
Plaintiff must respond to attempts to meet and confer in the future.  The Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits,
as Defendant satisfied its obligation to engage in the interactive process
prior to filing the pleading challenge.
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Defendant seeks judicial notice of the Terms of Service that governed
users’ relationship with Facebook during the relevant time period that forms
the basis of the complaint.  The RJN is
unopposed and granted.
 

Grounds for Demurrer

Defendant contends
the complaint is uncertain.  It contends
the complaint fails to state a cause of action. 
Finally, it contends the complaint is barred in its entirety by the
Communications Decency Act.  
 
i.             
Initial Note
Plaintiff, in
opposition to the demurrer, reiterates the various ways in which she believes
she has been aggrieved.  She fails, however,
to address any legal argument advanced in Defendant’s demurrer.  If Plaintiff wishes to pursue her claims, she
must be prepared to address legal, as opposed to perceived emotional or moral,
arguments.  
 
ii.            
Uncertainty
The Court agrees that
the complaint is uncertain.  As noted
above, the caption of the complaint indicates it sounds in contract.  The body of the complaint, however, fails to
allege any cause of action at all.  Notably,
Defendant indicates the body of the complaint purports to include causes of
action for fraud and violation of protection. 
The Court has reviewed the complaint and cannot find the words “fraud”
or “violation of protection” anywhere in the complaint.  
 
Plaintiff must
allege a viable cause of action that exists under California law if she wishes
to pursue this action.  The Court strongly
encourages Plaintiff to consult with a licensed attorney, as a review of the
complaint makes apparent that Plaintiff will not be able to successfully pursue
this action without professional assistance.
iii.           
Failure to State a Cause of
Action 
As noted above,
the Court cannot locate a purported cause of action for fraud or violation of
protection.  Defendant correctly notes
that, to the extent Plaintiff purports to state a claim for violation of
protection, no such claim exists.  
 
Defendant also
correctly notes that Plaintiff has not pled a claim for fraud.  The elements of fraud are: (1)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. 
(See Civil Code §1709.)  Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.)
 
Since allegations
of fraud involve a serious attack on character, fairness to the defendant
demands that he should receive the fullest possible details of the charge in
order to prepare his defense. 
Accordingly the rule is everywhere followed that fraud must be
specifically pleaded, such that: (a) General pleading of the legal conclusion
of “fraud” is insufficient; the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged;
and (b) Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the
proper manner (i.e., factually and specifically), and the policy of liberal
construction of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a
pleading defective in any material respect. 
(Id.)   
 
“Consistent with
the rule requiring specificity in pleading fraud, a complaint must state
ultimate facts showing that the defendant intended or had reason to expect
reliance by the plaintiff or the class of persons of which he is a member.”
(Geernaert v. Mitchell (1995) 31 Cal. App. 4th 601, 608.)  A plaintiff must allege what was said, by
whom, in what manner (i.e. oral or in writing), when, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, under what authority to bind the corporation.  (See Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical
Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.)
Plaintiff has not
pled any of the above elements.
 
Defendant also correctly
notes that Plaintiff has not pled a claim for breach of contract.  She has not pled the existence of any
contract between herself and Defendant, the terms of any such contract, or any
act on the part of Defendant that constitutes a breach of a term of the parties’
contract.
 
iv.           
Communications Decency
Act
The Court is not
ruling on the issue of whether or not the Communications Decency Act bars
Plaintiff’s claims at this time.  The Court
cannot determine the factual or legal basis for the claims, and therefore cannot
make a meaningful determination concerning the scope of the Act or its
application to the facts or legal theories advanced.  
 

Conclusion

Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained.  Plaintiff has not
articulated, in opposition to the demurrer, how she would amend if given leave
to do so.  However, because this is the
original complaint, and because leave to amend is liberally granted, the Court
is inclined to give Plaintiff an opportunity to attempt to cure the defects in
her complaint.  If Plaintiff files an
amended complaint, she must ensure that the pleading makes clear what legally
recognized cause of action or causes of action she is pleading.  She must also ensure all elements of any
recognized cause of action are pled.  
 
Plaintiff must
file and serve an amended complaint, in compliance with the above, within
thirty days.  Defendant must file a
responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   