  Case Number:  22LBCV00019    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Ariel Knight filed this action against Defendants, Robert
Louis Wood, Jacqueline Amy Wood, The Wood Family Trust, Robert Louis Wood and
Jacqueline Amy Wood as Trustees, and Henry Perry for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on 1/18/22.  Perry filed an answer and cross-complaint on
5/23/22.  The Wood Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike on 7/01/22, and the Court sustained the demurrer
and granted the motion to strike with leave to amend on 11/14/22.  Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint
on 12/12/22.  The FAC included causes of
action for:
·        
Violation
of Civil Code §1940.2 – Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment (all defendants);
·        
Violation
of Civil Code §1942.5 (all defendants);
·        
Tortious
Failure to Provide Habitable Premises (all defendants);
·        
Negligence
(all defendants);
·        
Nuisance
(all defendants);
·        
Assault
(Henry Perry);
·        
IIED
(all defendants);
·        
Breach
of Written Contract (all defendants).
 
On 5/09/23, the Court heard the Wood Defendants’ demurrer and motion to
strike directed at the FAC.  The Court
sustained the demurrer in part and overruled the demurrer in part, and the
Court granted the motion to strike in part and denied it in part.  On 6/05/23, Plaintiff filed her operative
Second Amended Complaint.  The SAC
includes causes of action for:
·        
Breach
of Quiet Enjoyment;
·        
Violation
of Civil Code §1940.2;
·        
Violation
of Civil Code §1942.5;
·        
Breach
of Warranty of Habitability;
·        
Negligence;
·        
Nuisance;
·        
Assault;
·        
IIED;
·        
Breach
of Contract.
 
2.    
Demurrer to FAC

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in
the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference
from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits
control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action
by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in
the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers
are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares there have
been numerous conversations, which appear to have occurred prior to the filing
of the SAC, concerning the allegations that are the subject of this demurrer
and motion to strike.  She declares that,
subsequent to the filing of the SAC, she sent a meet and confer email.  The meet and confer asked Plaintiff to either
stipulate to withdraw the IIED cause of action or to meet and confer
further.  
 
Defendant’s demurrer is addressed
to the second and third causes of action (violations of Civil Code §§1940.2 and
1942.5).  It is not addressed to the IIED
cause of action.  Defendant’s meet and
confer letter did not even mention the second or third causes of action.  Defendant’s motion to strike seeks to strike
the prayer for exemplary damages, the prayer for punitive damages, and the
prayer for statutory damages.  None of
this was mentioned in the meet and confer letter either.  
 

Continuance of Hearing and
     Guidance

The hearing on this demurrer and motion to strike is continued for six
weeks to require the parties to meaningfully meet and confer.  The Court provides the following guidance to
the parties to assist in these efforts:
 
i.             
Initial
Note
Plaintiff, at page 3, line 26 of the opposition to the demurrer, refers
to the “TAC.”  This caused the Court to
look in the file for a Third Amended Complaint. 
There is no TAC on file.  The demurrer
is directed at the Second Amended Complaint. 

 
ii.            
Second
Cause of Action
First, the first page of the SAC indicates the second cause of action
is for violation of Civil Code §1940.2, but the caption of the cause of action
indicates it is for violation of §1941.2. 
It appears clear Plaintiff intends to allege a cause of action under
§1940.2.  The parties must meet and
confer to clarify.
 
Second, it appears the crux of the demurrer is the contention that the sham
pleading doctrine bars the SAC.  Neither
party, however, cites authority concerning whether and when the sham pleading doctrine
applies.  The parties must meet and
confer concerning the applicability or lack of applicability of the doctrine.
 
iii.           
Third
Cause of Action
Defendant again appears to argue the sham pleading doctrine bars this
cause of action.  Again, the parties must
meet and confer to determine whether or not the doctrine applies.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer, argues the third cause of
action adequately states a claim for retaliation by harassment.  Plaintiff then goes on to argue the elements
of breach of warranty of habitability are met in the cause of action.  Plaintiff then concludes a claim for
retaliation is pled.  Plaintiff must
clarify, in meet and confer communication, whether this is a claim for
retaliation by harassment or for breach of the warranty of habitability.  If it is for retaliation by harassment, Plaintiff
must cite authority on point to that cause of action, rather than to a
completely separate cause of action.  
 
iv.           
Punitive
Damages
Plaintiff’s SAC includes a prayer for exemplary damages and also a
prayer for punitive damages.  These are
the same thing, and it is not clear why they are pled as two different items of
damages.  In any event, again, the
parties did not meet and confer concerning whether the prayer for punitive damages
is adequately pled, and they must do so before the Court will hear the
challenge.
 
v.            
Statutory
Damages
Plaintiff’s prayer for statutory damages rises and falls with her claim
for violation of §1942.5, and therefore the parties’ meet and confer in this
regard should address both the cause of action and the corresponding prayer for
damages.  
 
vi.           
Conclusion
The hearing on the demurrer and
motion to strike is continued for six weeks to Tuesday, 11/07/23 at 8:30 a.m.
in Department S27.  The parties must meet
and confer forthwith.  If any issues
remain unresolved after a good faith attempt to meet and confer is made, the
parties must each submit a declaration concerning meet and confer efforts and a
brief (not to exceed ten pages) concerning any issues not resolved by way of the
meet and confer efforts.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   