 Case Number:  23LBCV00543    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Eda DiPasquale and Scott McChesney filed this unlawful detainer
action against Defendant, John Cruz for possession and damages in connection
with a residential tenancy.  
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 3/15/23.  On 6/01/23, the Court denied Defendant’s
motion to quash.  On 7/25/23, the Court
overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint.  On 7/31/23, Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint.  
 
On 8/04/23, Plaintiff filed a request to set the case for trial.  The request includes a proof of service
showing it was served on Defendant.  On
8/07/23, the Court issued a minute order setting trial for 8/23/23, which order
was mailed to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was ordered
to give notice to Defendant.  On 8/23/23,
Plaintiff filed a Notice of Trial, which includes proof of service showing it
was mailed to Defendant on 8/11/23.  
 
On 8/23/23, the Court heard a bench trial.  Defendant did not appear, and the Court
entered judgment in Plaintiff’s favor. 
On 8/28/23, Plaintiff gave notice of entry of judgment.  On 9/05/23, Defendant filed this motion to
vacate the judgment.  
 
2.    
Motion to Vacate Judgment
Defendant moves to vacate the
judgment, contending he was never given notice of the trial date.  The parties agree that, if Defendant was not
given notice of the trial, the judgment must be set aside.  The issue, therefore, comes down to
credibility.  
 
Boding in Defendant’s favor is the following:  
 
First, on 7/25/23, the Court
overruled Defendant’s demurrer.  The minute
order does not indicate any Case Management Conference is being scheduled, and
typically a CMC is not scheduled in a UD case. 
The next day, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Ruling and proof of service of
same.  In the Notice of Ruling, Plaintiff
indicates the Court set a CMC for 8/31/23. 
Defendant, therefore, believed the case was going to have a CMC heard on
8/31/23.  As Defendant correctly notes in
the moving papers, there was never an 8/31/23 CMC scheduled in this case.  
 
Second, Defendant provides copies
of all mail he was scheduled to receive, and there is nothing from the USPS
showing he would receive the notice of trial. 
Defendant declares this is a true and correct copy of everything from
USPS, and he never received a notice of trial. 
This is, of course, a credibility determination, as Defendant could have
cut and pasted the scheduled mail print-out and omitted the notice of
ruling.  
 
Boding in favor of Plaintiff is the
following:
 
First, Defendant filed a motion to
quash and also a demurrer, but failed to appear at the hearing on either.  Defendant scheduled the hearing on the motion
to quash and the demurrer well into the future, requiring Plaintiff to come in
ex parte to advance the hearing on both so the case could move forward on the appropriate
fast track given to UD matters.  The
foregoing tends to show Defendant wishes to prolong these proceedings.  Failing to appear at trial and then filing a
motion to vacate the judgment, similarly, would prolong the proceedings. 
 
Second, Plaintiff’s attorney signed
the proof of service of the notice of trial, and a signed proof of service creates
a rebuttable presumption that the document was actually served.   
 
On balance, due to the very strong presumption in favor of trial on the
merits, the Court is inclined to grant the motion.  The Court is, however, inclined to
immediately proceed with trial on the merits at the conclusion of the hearing
on this motion.  Plaintiff is already
prepared for trial, as Plaintiff appeared and was prepared on 8/23/23.  Defendant must appear prepared for trial at the
hearing on this motion.  