 Case Number:  24VECV01834    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV01834 GONZALEZ V FORD
TENTATIVE RULING: PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS, SET 1: GRANT. 
Within 20 days of this order defendant shall provide copies
of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody
and/or control, to the opposing side(s):
Purchase or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle,
including any associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment
installed at the dealership, ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings
signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale.
Work orders, repair orders, and invoices (including
accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair
activity concerning the subject vehicle. 
Rental car or loaner agreements regarding alternate
transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning the subject
vehicle.
Records of communications with dealer personnel, and/or
factory representatives and Defendant's call center or customer assistance
personnel concerning the subject vehicle.
Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle.
Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or
claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the subject
vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.
Defendant's written statements of policy and/or procedures
used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to
"Lemon Law" claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or
leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.
A list or compilation of customer complaints that are
substantially similar to the defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles
purchased of the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  A substantially similar customer complaint
would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator
light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in
any work order or repair order for vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by Defendant may be in the
chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit,
dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers'
reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers' names,
addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying
information.
Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicles
of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle whether mentioned in
the repair history of the subject vehicle or not. 
Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other
diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice
records for the subject vehicle.
If a party believes any of this information should be
subject to a protective order, that party shall first meet and confer as to
agreeable language for the order, if not already done. Absent a stipulation,
the requesting party shall file a motion for a protective order.
The information may be provided to the opposing party in
electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing party.
Defendant shall serve verifications with the documents they
produce. Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by
stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).
IT IS SO ORDERED.