  Case Number:  23VECV04674    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  T KHORSHIDIAN V TESLA
23VECV04674
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Tesla Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.
Arbitration Status Conference set
1/21/2026 at 8:30 a.m.  Mandatory
appearance unless judgment or dismissal has been entered.
Defendant Tesla Inc.’s Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Tesla Inc. (Defendant)
moved to compel arbitration and to stay Plaintiff Kamran Khorshidian’s
(Plaintiff) action.  Defendant requested
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 

Plaintiff’s opposition was due
January 7, 2025 and none was filed.
Discussion 
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) 
Defendant provided that the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (MVOA) entered
on June 23, 2021 included an arbitration provision requiring arbitration of any
and all disputes arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
(Raymond Kim (Kim) Decl., par. 3, Exh. 1 at pg. 3.)  Plaintiff thereafter took delivery of the
vehicle on June 27, 2021 at which time Plaintiff executed a Retail Installment
Sale Contract (RISC).  (Kim Decl., par.
3, Exh. 2.)  The RISC also included an
arbitration agreement.  (RISC pg.
7.)  The scope of both agreements’
arbitration provisions are broadly worded so as to encompass the claims alleged
in the Complaint.  With submission of the
two arbitration agreements and the broad scope of the provisions encompassing
Plaintiff’s claims, Defendant met their burden on the motion.  The burden transferred to Plaintiff to
dispute the validity of the arbitration agreements.  Without any opposition from Plaintiff to
dispute the request for arbitration, the motion’s arguments are persuasive.
 The motion to compel arbitration and stay the
action is GRANTED.
Arbitration Status Conference set
1/21/2026 at 8:30 a.m.  Mandatory
appearance unless judgment or dismissal has been entered.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.