  Case Number:  23STCV21776    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




reza safaie

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
nicholas fuentes

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV21776




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant nicholas fuentes
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for cross-complainant nicholas fuentes
(3)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant old earl scheib paint and body
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Michael Chuah           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Nicholas Fuentes
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Cross-Complainant Nicholas Fuentes
(3)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Michael Chuah (“Counsel”) separately moves to be relieved as counsel
for (1) defendant Nicholas Fuentes (“Fuentes”), (2) cross-complainant Fuentes,
and (3) defendant Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body (“Old Earl”) (collectively,
“Clients”).  In the interest of
efficiency, the court discusses the three motions to be relieved as counsel
together.  
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
            The court finds that Counsel has not
shown that Counsel served Clients (1) with all the moving papers filed in
connection with these motions, and (2) with sufficient notice. 
            First, the court acknowledges that
Counsel filed, on September 4, 2024, two proofs of personal service as to
Clients.  However, those proofs of
service do not state that Clients were served with all three motions set for
hearing.  Specifically, Counsel has filed
two motions as to each party: (1) a motion to be relieved as counsel for
Fuentes in his capacity as a defendant, (2) a motion to be relieved as counsel
for Fuentes in his capacity as a cross-complainant, (3) a motion to be relieved
as counsel for Old Earl in its capacity as a defendant, and (4) a motion to be
relieved as counsel for Old Earl in its capacity as a cross-complainant.[1]  However, the proofs of personal service do
not state that both motions directed to Fuentes and Old Earl were served on
them.  Instead, they state only that a single
motion was served on each of them, without further description of the motion
(i.e., that the motion to be relieved as counsel for Fuentes, in his capacity
as a defendant or a cross-complainant, was served on Fuentes, or that the
motion to be relieved as counsel for Old Earl, in its capacity as a defendant
or a cross-complainant, was served on Old Earl).  (Proof of Service filed Sep. 4, 2024 as to
Fuentes, ¶ 2 [describing documents served to be “Notice of Motion and Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel—Civil; Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel; Attachment; Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel”]; Proof of Service filed Sep. 4, 2024 as to Old Earl, ¶ 2
[describing documents served to be “Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel—Civil; Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel; Attachment; Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel”].) 
            Thus, the court finds that the
proofs of personal service on Clients are incomplete and therefore insufficient
to establish that Counsel served all of the pending motions to be relieved as
counsel on Clients. 
            Second, the court notes that Counsel
has stated, on the supporting “Declaration[s] in Support of Attorney’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil[,]” that Counsel served Clients with the moving
papers by mail at Clients’ last known addresses.  (MC-052 Forms, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2),
(b)(1)(b).)  However, Counsel did not
file proofs of service of the motions by mail setting forth the dates and
addresses of service.  
            Third, to the extent that Counsel
served Clients with the moving papers by mail on August 26, 2024, i.e., the
date on which Counsel filed the pending motions, such service would not have
provided Clients with sufficient notice of the September 19, 2024 hearing on
the pending three motions because (1) all moving papers must be served and
filed at least 16 court days before a hearing, which is extended by 5 calendar
days for mailing, and (2) for a hearing date of September 19, 2024, Counsel was
required to serve Clients with the moving papers by mail no later than August
22, 2024 (16 court days + 5 calendar days). 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005, subd. (b), 1013, subd. (a).) 
            The court therefore denies Counsel’s
motions to be relieved as counsel for Clients, without prejudice to Counsel’s
filing new motions that (1) are accompanied by valid proofs of service of the
motions on Clients, and (2) provide Clients with sufficient notice of the
hearing(s) on the motions.
ORDER
            The court denies Michael Chuah’s (1)
motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant Nicholas Fuentes, (2) motion to
be relieved as counsel for cross-complainant Nicholas Fuentes, and (3) motion
to be relieved as counsel for defendant Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body, without
prejudice.
            The court orders Michael Chuah to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


