 Case Number:  BC724250    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




emilio reyes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lorraine ann escobar

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC724250




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   19, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion for issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against plaintiff emilio
  reyes
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion for issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against plaintiff emilio
  reyes
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Alexandra R.
McIntosh, APC       
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Emilio Reyes
(1)  
Motion
for Issue, Evidence, or Terminating Sanctions Against Plaintiff Emilio Reyes
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Los Indios de San
Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Emilio Reyes
(2)  
Motion
for Issue, Evidence, or Terminating Sanctions Against Plaintiff Emilio Reyes
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The court denies plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s
request for judicial notice, filed on August 30, 2024, because the matters of
which he requests the court take judicial notice are not relevant to a material
issue presented by the motion for issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions
filed by defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825.) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on plaintiff
Emilio Reyes’s evidentiary objections, filed on August 12, 2024, to the
declaration of Michael Sisson as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-8 and 12 are
overruled. 
Objection Nos. 9-11 are
sustained. 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS FILED BY DEFENDANT MCINTOSH
Defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC (“McIntosh”) moves the court for
an order imposing issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against plaintiff
Emilio Reyes (“Plaintiff”).
If a party engages in a misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 provides, in relevant
part, that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to,
the following: . . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery. . . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.”¿¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.010, subds. (d), (g).)  “The trial
court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering
the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if
the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number
of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”  (Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) 
First, the court denies McIntosh’s motion for issue and
evidence sanctions because McIntosh did not file a separate statement as
required.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1345, subd. (a)(7) [“The motions that require a separate statement include a
motion: [¶¶] (7) For issue or evidentiary sanctions”]; Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 [trial court had discretion to deny a discovery motion
on the ground that the moving parties did not comply with the separate
statement requirement].)
The court notes that, in reply, McIntosh argues that a separate
statement was not required because Plaintiff did not provide answers to its
deposition questions.  (Reply, p. 3:5-20;
Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345, subd. (b)(1) [a separate statement is not
required “[w]hen no response has been provided to the request for
discovery”].)  However, Plaintiff did
respond to McIntosh’s questioning, and in order to evaluate McIntosh’s requests
for issue and evidence sanctions, the court is required to review those responses
to determine if Plaintiff engaged in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process.  Thus, the court finds that
McIntosh was required, but failed, to submit a separate statement that complied
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.
Second, the court denies McIntosh’s motion for terminating
sanctions.
McIntosh contends that Plaintiff failed to answer its questions
regarding (1) the federal action entitled Reyes v. United States Department
of the Interior (Case No. 18-CV-0367), (2) the allegations in the Third
Amended Complaint, (3) the first cause of action for conversion, (4) the 14th
cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) the
11th cause of action for civil conspiracy.
As to the questioning regarding the federal action, the court finds
that Plaintiff responded to those questions. 
Specifically, when asked if the First Amended Complaint presented at deposition
was a copy of Plaintiff’s complaint filed in the federal action, Plaintiff
testified that he “d[id] not know.”  (Sisson
Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp. 19:14-20:2.) 
Similarly, when asked whether he made certain allegations in that case,
Plaintiff responded that he did not remember writing those allegations, signing
the complaint, or who prepared the complaint. 
(Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp. 20:8-21:21.)  Thus, although Plaintiff’s answers were not
detailed, Plaintiff did answer McIntosh’s questions by stating that he did not
know, or could not recall, details about the complaint filed in the federal
action. 
As to the questioning regarding the allegations in Plaintiff’s Third
Amended Complaint filed in this action, Plaintiff also testified that he was
“not sure if [the document presented at deposition was] the correct amended
complaint” because it was “not certified by the court.”  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp. 31:22-32:1.)  In response to other questioning regarding
the validity of the Third Amended Complaint, Plaintiff repeated that he was not
sure whether the document presented at deposition was his Third Amended
Complaint because it was “not a confirmed copy of what [he] filed” and it did
not have the court stamps verifying that it was the document that he filed in
this action.  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes
Dep., p. 33:2-7.)  Thus, the court finds
that Plaintiff sufficiently responded to this questioning by stating that he
did not know whether the pleading presented at deposition was the correct
pleading because it was not a conformed copy of the Third Amended Complaint
that was filed in this action. 
As to the questioning regarding the first cause of action for
conversion, McIntosh asserts that its counsel “was attempting to elicit
testimony from [Plaintiff] as to what property was allegedly converted by
[McIntosh], whether [McIntosh] had [Plaintiff’s] consent to have the property,
and any harm caused by the alleged conversion[,]” but that Plaintiff evasively
refused to respond to any questioning on this topic.  (Mot., p. 7:14-20.)  
After initially objecting to the question regarding the allegedly
converted property, Plaintiff eventually responded that McIntosh took a
document “from the Bureau of Indian Affairs certification that [he] obtained
from the BIA, Bureau of Indian Affairs, through the CDIB policy.”  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp. 33:24-34:2,
34:17-35:1.)  Plaintiff also testified
that the subject document was his property because it was “issued to
[him].”  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes
Dep., 36:19-21.)  Thus, Plaintiff testified
as to the property allegedly converted by McIntosh, including facts as to
Plaintiff’s ownership of that document (i.e., that the document was issued to
him).  The court therefore finds that
McIntosh has not shown that Plaintiff refused to answer questions as to the
facts underlying the conversion cause of action. 
However, the court finds that Plaintiff did not provide a full and
complete answer to McIntosh’s question regarding the identity of the person or
entity that issued the document to him. 
(Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp. 36:22-23 [stating “I already
answered the question” in response to counsel’s questioning about who issued
the document to Plaintiff].)  But
McIntosh has not shown that terminating sanctions would appropriately remedy
the harm caused by Plaintiff’s failure to completely respond to this question.[1]  (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604 [“The trial court
should select a sanction that is tailor[ed] . . . to the harm caused by the
withheld discovery”] [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)  Moreover, the court notes that a more
appropriate remedy might have been to compel Plaintiff to answer this question
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480.
McIntosh further contends that Plaintiff did not respond to
questioning about his 14th cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  The deposition transcript shows that (1)
counsel for McIntosh asked Plaintiff if Andrew Salas and Lorraine Escobar are fiduciaries
to Plaintiff, and (2) Plaintiff stated that counsel was “calling for a legal –
legal reasoning” and that Plaintiff was “not sure about the answer.”  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp.
41:16-22.)  The court finds that this
question requested Plaintiff to provide his legal contentions regarding the
existence of a fiduciary relationship between himself and those defendants and
was therefore an improper question to ask at an oral deposition.  (Rifkind v. Superior Court (1994) 22
Cal.App.4th 1255, 1256 [concluding that legal contention questions were
improperly asked at an oral deposition], 1259 [defining legal contention
questions to be “deposition questions that ask a party deponent to state all
facts, list all witnesses and identify all documents that support or pertain to
a particular contention in that party’s pleadings”].)  
Similarly, the court finds that asking Plaintiff how McIntosh breached
her fiduciary duty to him, phrased in the manner posed by counsel for McIntosh,
improperly requested Plaintiff to state facts in support of his allegation at
deposition.  (Ibid.; Sisson Decl.,
Ex. D, Reyes Dep., p. 42:18-21 [testifying, in response to McIntosh’s question
“How did Ms. McIntosh breach her fiduciary duty to [Plaintiff]?”, that
Plaintiff did not know and that counsel was “asking for a legal reasoning
behind the . . .”].)  Further, Plaintiff appeared
to answer this question by testifying that his breach of fiduciary duty claim
was related to the CDIB and that “[a]ny damages that happened were related to
the CDIB probably, among other things, which [he] do[es] not know.”  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., p. 43:1-3.)

Thus, the court finds that McIntosh did not show that Plaintiff
improperly failed to answer its questions regarding the 14th cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty. 
As to the questioning regarding the 11th cause of action for civil
conspiracy, McIntosh asserts that Plaintiff “evasively refused to respond to
any questioning on this topic.”  (Mot.,
p. 8:12-13.)  McIntosh has submitted the
deposition transcript of Plaintiff, which shows that, when asked what facts
Plaintiff knew of to support his allegation that McIntosh discriminated against
him because of his race, Plaintiff testified that McIntosh was racist, but that
he did not know of any facts establishing that McIntosh is racist.  (Sisson Decl., Ex. D, Reyes Dep., pp.
43:4-14.)  Thus, Plaintiff did not refuse
to answer this question, and instead responded to McIntosh’s questioning by
asserting that he did not know of any such facts.  (Ibid.)
As set forth above, the court has concluded that (1) McIntosh did not
show that Plaintiff did not respond to its questioning regarding the federal
action, the property allegedly converted by McIntosh, and the causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty and civil conspiracy, (2) as to the question that
Plaintiff did not answer, concerning what entity or person issued the document to
him that was allegedly converted by McIntosh, McIntosh did not show that the
appropriate remedy was the issuance of a terminating sanction, and (3) McIntosh
did not show that its questioning of Plaintiff regarding his legal contentions
in support of his breach of fiduciary duty cause of action was proper.  Thus, based on the court’s review of the
deposition transcript and the arguments presented by the parties, the court
finds that McIntosh has not met its burden to show that Plaintiff has engaged
in a misuse of the discovery process that warrants the imposition of
terminating sanctions.  (Lopez, supra,
246 Cal.App.4th at p. 604 [sanctions must be appropriate to the dereliction and
should not exceed what is required to protect the interests of the party that
is entitled to but denied discovery].)  
The court denies Plaintiff’s request that the court issue an order
that the deposition transcript dated July 19, 2024 has no binding effect and is
inadmissible at trial.  (Opp., p.
12:19-21.)
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS FILED BY LOS INDIOS DEFENDANTS
Defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas (collectively,
“Los Indios Defendants”) move the court for an order imposing issue, evidence,
or terminating sanctions against Plaintiff. 
If a party engages in a misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 provides, in relevant
part, that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to,
the following: . . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery. . . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.”¿¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.010, subds. (d), (g).)  “The trial
court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering
the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if
the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number
of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”  (Los
Defensores, Inc., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) 
Los Indios Defendants have based their motion on the ground that
Plaintiff refused to answer questions regarding (1) the causes of action for
invasion of privacy and intentional infliction of emotional distress, (2) the
alter ego theory of liability alleged against them, (3) his experience as an
expert professional genealogist, and (4) his claims for damages against Los
Indios Defendants. 
First, the court finds that Los Indios Defendants’ questioning of
Plaintiff relating to the theories underlying his invasion of privacy cause of
action improperly sought Plaintiff’s legal contentions.  Specifically, counsel for Los Indios
Defendants asked Plaintiff if he was “suing Los Indios [Defendants] as to the
public disclosure of private facts[,]” such that Los Indios Defendants requested
Plaintiff to provide testimony based on his legal contentions and conclusions.  (Los Indios Def. Sep. Stmt., p. 2:7-8; Rifkind,
supra, 22 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1258, 1259.)  Thus, the court finds that Los Indios
Defendants have not shown that Plaintiff improperly refused to answer this
question at deposition.   The court therefore denies Los Indios
Defendants’ request that the court impose issue and evidence sanctions
prohibiting Plaintiff from supporting and introducing evidence to support his
cause of action for invasion of privacy. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (b), (c).)    
Second, the court finds that Los Indios Defendants’ questioning of
Plaintiff regarding his cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress was similarly improper. 
Specifically, Los Indios Defendants asked Plaintiff “[w]hat evidence”
Plaintiff has that “Los Indios, the nonprofit, intentionally caused [him]
emotional distress[.]”  (Los Indios Def.
Sep. Stmt., p. 4:4-5.)  However, that is
an improper legal contention question because it asked Plaintiff to identify
evidence in support of a particular claim alleged in his Third Amended
Complaint.  (Rifkind, supra,
22 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1256, 1259.)  Thus,
the court finds that Los Indios Defendants have not shown that Plaintiff
improperly refused to answer this question at deposition.  Further, Plaintiff substantively answered this
question by testifying that defendant Andrew Salas “corroborated with
[nonmoving defendant Lorraine] Escobar” and hired her.  (Def. Sep. Stmt., p. 4:10-14.)  The court therefore denies Los Indios
Defendants’ request that the court impose issue and evidence sanctions
prohibiting Plaintiff from supporting and introducing evidence to support his cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (b),
(c).)  
Third, the court finds that Los Indios Defendants’ questioning of
Plaintiff relating to his assertion of alter ego liability against them was an
improper legal contention question since it called for Plaintiff “to make a
‘law-to-fact application . . . beyond the competence of most lay persons’” in
order to respond.  (Los Indios Def. Sept.
Stmt., p. 5:13-15 [asking what basis Plaintiff has “to indicate that there’s an
alter ego theory, and that all the defendants are somehow interconnected with
the corporation Los Indios De San Gabriel”].)  The court therefore denies Los Indios
Defendants’ request that the court impose issue and evidence sanctions
prohibiting Plaintiff from supporting and introducing evidence to support his
claims against Los Indios Defendants based on the theory of alter ego
liability.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subds. (b), (c).)  
Fourth, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff asserted only objections,
based on the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine, to Los
Indios Defendants’ question asking Plaintiff what “professional
accomplishments” that he could “point to that would support the claim that [Plaintiff
is] an expert[.]”  (Los Indios Def. Sep.
Stmt., p. 6:13-17.)  Further, Plaintiff
did not support those objections in his opposition papers.  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff
improperly refused to answer Los Indios Defendants’ question regarding his
alleged designation as an expert genealogist. 

However, the court finds that Los Indios Defendants have not met their
burden to show that the court should prohibit Plaintiff from introducing
evidence to support his claim that he is a professional genealogist expert
because Los Indios Defendants did not (1) submit evidence to show that they
were harmed by Plaintiff’s failure to answer this question, or articulate in
their moving papers the harm caused by Plaintiff’s failure to answer this
question, or (2) present adequate argument to show that the requested evidence
sanction would be appropriate and would not exceed that which is required to
protect their interests as the parties entitled to, but denied, an answer to
this question.  The court therefore
denies Los Indios Defendants’ request that the court impose an evidence
sanction prohibiting Plaintiff from introducing evidence to support his claim
that he is a professional genealogist expert. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)
Fifth, the court finds that Plaintiff did not improperly fail to
answer Los Indios Defendants’ question regarding the type of relief that
Plaintiff seeks against those defendants because (1) that was an improper legal
contention question, and (2) Plaintiff testified that he “d[id] not recall” and
that “[i]t’s in the Third Amended Complaint” and therefore answered this
question.  (Los Indios Def. Sep. Stmt., p
.7:20-22; Rifkind, supra, 22 Cal.App.4th at p. 1256.)  The court therefore denies Los Indios
Defendants’ request that the court impose issue and evidence sanctions
prohibiting Plaintiff from supporting and introducing evidence to support his claim
for damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subds. (b), (c).)  
Finally, the court notes that Los Indios Defendants additionally
assert, in their separate statement, that Plaintiff did not respond to
questions regarding his allegations pertaining to the seven publications that
are the subject of this action.  (Los
Indios Def. Sep. Stmt., p. 10:1-3.)  The
court acknowledges that, while Plaintiff responded to counsel’s question asking
if his contention was that he “actually ha[s] Gabrielino ancestry[,]” Plaintiff
did not answer counsel’s follow-up question requesting the facts supporting that
position.  (Los Indios Def. Sep. Stmt.,
p. 10:13-17.)  However, Los Indios
Defendants did not (1) articulate the harm suffered to them by Plaintiff’s
failure to answer this question, and (2) request, in their notice of motion, an
issue or evidence sanction tailored to address any such harm caused by
Plaintiff’s failure to answer this question. 
(Notice of Mot., p. 2:10-24 [requesting sanctions related to Plaintiff’s
claims for invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
damages, his claim that he is a professional genealogist expert, and the theory
of alter ego liability].) 
For the same reasons set forth in connection with the court’s ruling
on Los Indios Defendants’ requests for issue and evidence sanctions, the court
finds that Los Indios Defendants have not met their burden to show that
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff are necessary or warranted.  The court therefore denies Los Indios
Defendants’ motion for terminating sanctions. 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request that the court issue an order
that the deposition transcripts of his depositions, taken on May 30, 2024 and
July 19, 2024, bear no binding effect and are inadmissible at trial.  (Opp., p. 12:19-21.)
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Alexandra
R. McIntosh, APC’s motion for issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against
plaintiff Emilio Reyes. 
            The court denies defendants Los
Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas’s motion for issue, evidence, or
terminating sanctions against plaintiff Emilio Reyes.
 
 
 
 
The court orders plaintiff Emilio Reyes to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 19, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


