  Case Number:  BC683350    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LINDA SPINELLA,
  ET AL., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BIAFORA FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, ET
  AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  BC683350 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
Date:  May 17, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs
Linda Spinella (“Linda”)[1],
individually and in the right of and for the benefit of Biafora Family Limited
Partnership (“BFLP”) and Ruth Ann Biafora (“Ruth”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Cross-Complainants
and Plaintiffs in BC713448, BFLP, Joseph R. Biafora, Jr. (“Joseph Jr.”) and
Diana Biafora Sparagna (“Diana”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On April 15, 2002, the BFLP was formed by a
written limited partnership agreement between Joseph Biafora, Sr. (“Joseph Sr.”)
and his wife, Stefi Biafora (“Stefi”).  Plaintiffs
Linda and Ruth and Defendants Diana Biafora Sparagna (“Diana”), Joseph R.
Biafora, Jr. (“Joseph Jr.”) and Stephen Biafora (“Stephen”) are the children of
Joseph Sr. and Stefi and are siblings. 
Brenda Navarro (“Brenda”) was also a sibling who is now deceased.  Brenda’s interest in BFLP is held by the
Rayna Stephanie Alice Navarro Special Needs Trust dated October 1, 2010 (the “Trust”),
of which Diana is the trustee.  Linda,
Ruth, Diana, Joseph Jr., Stephen and the Trust are the limited partners of
BFLP.
            
            The currently operative complaint is
the Second Amended Complaint filed by Linda and Ruth on April 16, 2018.  Linda and Ruth allege that Diana, Joseph Jr.
and Stephen committed unlawful acts in conducting the affairs of BFLP,
misappropriated partnership assets for their personal use, committed waste and
mismanagement of the partnership and failed to distribute money and property
due to Plaintiffs in accordance with their interests in BFLP.  Plaintiffs allege in the SAC: (1) a claim for
dissolution of partnership; (2) individual claims to enforce partnership
rights; (3) derivative claim to enforce partnership rights; (4) individual
claims for breach of contract; (5) derivative claim for breach of contract; (6)
individual claims for breach of fiduciary duty; (7) derivative claim for breach
of fiduciary duty; (8) individual claims for receiving or withholding stolen
property (Penal Code §496); (9) derivative claim for receiving or withholding
stolen property (Penal Code §496); (10) individual claims for money had and
received; (11) derivative claim for money had and received; (12) individual
claims for quasi contract and unjust enrichment; (13) derivative claim for
quasi contract and unjust enrichment; (14) accounting; (15) failure to pay
wages and benefits; (16) quiet title to 350 Paseo De Playa, #231; (17) quiet
title to 469 Corvette Street.  
 
            On July 10, 2018, BFLP, Joseph Jr.
and Diana filed their own separate action against Linda and Ruth (Case No.
BC713448) alleging (1) declaratory relief and (2) breach of partnership
agreement.  On that same day, BFLP,
Joseph Jr. and Diana filed a cross-complaint in this action alleging (1) breach
of contract; (2) common count – money lent and owed; (3) common count – account
stated; (4) theft, embezzlement, misappropriation, conversion; (5) fraud –
false promise; (6) fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (7) negligent
misrepresentation; (8) defamation; and (9) intentional interference with
inheritance expectancy.
 
            On October 30, 2018, BC713448 was
consolidated with BC683550.  BC685330 was
designated the lead case.  A bench trial
began on April 6, 2023 and is scheduled to resume on May 29, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Parties’
Positions
            Plaintiffs Linda and Ruth move for
leave to file a Third Amended Complaint based on recent events that took place
during the Phase I bench trial.  During
the trial, Plaintiffs allege that it became apparent that Defendants’ designated
appraiser, Steven Lee, was not a “certified independent business appraiser”
required under Section 9.04 of the BFLP Partnership Agreement.  Plaintiffs contend Defendants’ failure to
properly designate an independent appraiser in accordance with section 9.04 of
the BFLP Partnership Agreement was a breach of the Partnership Agreement and
nullified Defendants’ vote on September 5, 2019 to expel Plaintiffs from BFLP
pursuant to Section 9.04.  
 
            Plaintiffs ask that the Court grant
them leave to amend pursuant to CCP §473(a) and 576.  Plaintiffs propose to (1) add additional
claims for breach of Section 9.04 of the BFLP Partnership Agreement; (2) add a
claim for declaratory relief regarding the impact of Defendants’ failure to
comply with Section 9.04 of the BFLP Partnership Agreement.  Plaintiffs argue this is proper grounds to
allow them to amend to conform to proof. 
Plaintiffs argue they are not changing the legal theories or facts
alleged but asserting entirely new claims based on events that transpired
during the trial.  Plaintiffs argue no
prejudice will result, because the issues raised by the proposed amendments
were already fully tried before the Court. 
Plaintiffs argue there will also be no prejudice because the trial is
protracted and spread out over months.
 
            Defendants argue that leave to amend
is not warranted here and would unduly prejudice them.  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have had
Steven Lee’s appraisal report since August 2020. Defendants argue Steven Lee is
now deceased and Defendants have a new expert, Richard Lee, who has already
been deposed.  Defendants argue the only
basis for the claim that Steven Lee was not a qualified appraiser under Section
9.04 is the hearsay testimony of Webb. 
Defendants argue the Court should deny leave to amend and allow the
trial on the buyout proceeding under Section 9.04 proceed.  Defendants argue Steven Lee’s qualifications
are irrelevant at this point, given that the Court has already appointed a
neutral appraiser to serve as the tie breaker. 

 
On
reply, Plaintiffs reiterate that Steve Lee was not a qualified appraiser under
Section 9.04 and Defendants are therefore in breach of Section 9.04.  Plaintiffs argue they only discovered that
Steve Lee was unqualified to serve as an appraiser at trial.  Plaintiffs argue there will be no prejudice
to Defendants if the amendments are allowed. 
Plaintiffs argue that, contrary to Defendants’ position, the
qualifications required of an appraiser under Section 9.04 are not subject but
objective.  Plaintiffs argue they only
stipulated to the applicability of Section 9.04 based on their belief that Defendants
had complied with Section 9.04, which Plaintiffs discovered at trial that
Defendants did not do.  Plaintiffs argue
they should be entitled to amend the complaint to seek a declaratory order
finding that the expulsion vote was void. 

 
Legal
Standard
“A
pleading may be amended at the time of trial unless the adverse party can
establish prejudice.  Where a party is
allowed to prove facts to establish one cause of action, an amendment which
would allow the same facts to establish another cause of action is favored, and
a trial court abuses its discretion by prohibiting such an amendment when it
would not prejudice another party.  A
variance between pleading and proof does not justify the denial of an amendment
to conform pleading to proof unless the unamended pleading ‘misled the adverse
party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.”  (South Bay Building Enterprises, Inc. v.
Riviera Lend-Lease, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1111, 1124.)  
 
“It
is of course settled that the allowance of amendments to conform to the proof
rests largely in the discretion of the trial court and its determination will
not be disturbed on appeal unless it clearly appears that such discretion has
been abused.  Such amendments have been
allowed with great liberality and no abuse of discretion is shown unless by
permitting the amendment new and substantially different issues are introduced
in the case or the rights of the adverse party prejudiced.”  (Trafton v. Youngblood (1968) 69
Cal.2d 17, 31 (affirming denial of amendment to conform to proof that would
have added claim for offset for reasonable value of defendant attorney’s
services, where issue of reasonable value of attorney’s services was not before
court and plaintiff client did not have opportunity to offer evidence on such
issue during trial).)  “[A]mendments of
pleadings to conform to the proofs should not be allowed when they raise new
issues not included in the original pleadings and upon which the adverse party
had no opportunity to defend.”  (Id.)
“The
cases on amending pleadings during trial suggest trial courts should be guided
by two general principles: (1) whether facts or legal theories are being
changed and (2) whether the opposing party will be prejudiced by the proposed
amendment. Frequently, each principle represents a different side of the same
coin: If new facts are being alleged, prejudice may easily result because of
the inability of the other party to investigate the validity of the factual
allegations while engaged in trial or to call rebuttal witnesses. If the same
set of facts supports merely a different theory ... no prejudice can result.  The basic rule applicable to amendments to
conform to proof is that the amended pleading must be based upon the same
general set of facts as those upon which the cause of action or defense as
originally pleaded was grounded. 
[¶]  As stated by a leading
treatise, in ruling on a motion to amend a complaint to conform to proof, the
court is usually guided by whether: there is a reasonable excuse for the delay;
the change relates to the facts or only to legal theories; and the opposing
party will be prejudiced by the amendment.” 
(Duchrow v. Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359,
1378-1379.)
 
Leave
to Amend is DENIED
Whether
an amendment to conform to proof is proper depends in part on the evidence
already presented during Phase I of the trial. 
If the evidence presented at trial: (1) establishes Plaintiffs’ proposed
causes of action, (2) the proposed amendments would “not raise new issues not
included in the original pleadings and upon which the adverse party had no
opportunity to defend” and (3) the amendments would not prejudice Defendants,
leave to amend would be granted.   (Trafton,
supra, 69 Cal.2d at 31.)  
 
Plaintiffs’
requested amendments would add completely new claims based on evidence
presented at trial.  These claims would introduce
“new and substantially different issues,” which Defendants have not had an
opportunity to conduct discovery and would be unable to adequately defend.  Trial has already commenced.  Steve Lee, the allegedly unqualified
appraiser has died.  A neutral appraiser
was appointed by the Court and is set to testify when trial recommences on May
29, 2024.  Defendants have retained a new
appraiser, who has already been deposed. 
The evidence presented at trial also did not establish the newly proposed
causes of action, which include new allegations that the expulsion vote
triggering the entire buyout process was null and void due to Defendants’ use
of Steve Lee as an appraiser. 
 
Plaintiffs’
proposed Third Amended Complaint to Conform to Proof therefore fails to satisfy
the criteria for leave to amend. 
Plaintiffs’ proposed Third Amended Complaint “raise new issues not
included in the original pleadings and upon which the adverse party had no
opportunity to defend” and the amendments would not prejudice Defendants.  The evidence presented at trial also did not
establish Plaintiffs’ proposed causes of action.  
 
The
Court further notes that the various appraisers’ qualifications can and will be
weighed by the Court in its analysis of the issues in Phase One and the
proposed new causes of action are unnecessary and would distract from the
issues being tried.
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is DENIED.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 17th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


