  Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-RODRIGUEZ and SARA SANCHEZ, 
 
Plaintiffs,
  
         vs.
 
AKG TRADING
  (USA), INC., et al., 
 
Defendants.


 Case No.: 23STCV08440
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 6, 2024




 
            Defendant
Dal-Tile, LLC’s motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
            This
is a toxic tort case arising from Plaintiff Soto-Rodriguez’ claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working
with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants. 
 
            On
August 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe Soto-Rodriguez and Sara Sanches
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the Second Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging: (1)
Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability –
Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment, (5) Breach of Implied Warranties,
and (6) Loss of Consortium. 
 
            Defendant
Dal-Tile, LLC (“Dal-Tile”) now moves to strike Plaintiffs’ SAC.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 436 states the
following:  
 “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  
(a)¿Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  
(b)¿Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)  
 
Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Dal-Tile’s
Counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding this
motion, but Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to respond. (Kavarian Decl., ¶¶ 3-5,
Exh. A.) The Court finds the parties have failed to meet and confer in person
or by telephone pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 435, subdivision
(a). Nevertheless, the Court will address the merits of the motion. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Dal-Tile seeks to strike (1) two additional stone
products (SAC, p. 33, lines 24-25.) and (2) allegations regarding Defendants
Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC and Dal-Tile LLC’s corporate structure (SAC, ¶
549-51.).
 
As to the two additional stone products, Dal-Tile notes
that, during the hearing on its first motion to strike on January 24, 2024, the
Court agreed with counsel that Plaintiffs must seek leave of court to amend the
complaint if they sought to add additional stone products. (Kavarian Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiffs
added “One Quartz” to the First Amended Complaint (FAC), and Dal-Tile filed
another motion to strike. On July 16, 2024, the Court granted the motion to
strike. Dal-Tile argues Plaintiffs have again added “One Quartz” and added
another product, “One Quartz Surfaces” to the SAC. (Kavarian Decl., ¶ 9; SAC p.
33, lines 24-25.) 
 
The right to amend a complaint without leave of court
under Civil Code of Procedure section 472 is limited to the original
complaint—there is no right to amend an amended complaint without leave of
court. (Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 564, 578-79.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have once again failed
to seek leave to amend as directed by the Court. The Court grants the motion to
strike both additional stone products, “One Quartz” and “One Quartz Surfaces”
from the SAC.
 
As to the allegations regarding Defendants Dal-Tile
Distribution, LLC and Dal-Tile LLC’s corporate structure, Dal-Tile argues
Plaintiffs must have sought leave of court to make such amendment. (Kavarian
Decl., ¶ 12; SAC, ¶ 549-51.) Dal-Tile notes that Plaintiffs filed the SAC in
response to Defendant Arriaga USA, Inc.’s demurrer to the FAC, which was
sustained by the Court on July 26, 2024. (Kavarian Decl., ¶ 10.) The Court gave
Plaintiffs 15 days to amend the FAC. (Kavarian Decl., ¶ 11.) Dal-Tile argues
the scope of the leave to amend was limited to as to allegations involving
Defendant Arriaga USA, Inc., not Dal-Tile. (Id.)
 
“It is the rule that when a trial court sustains a
demurrer with leave to amend, the scope of the grant of leave is ordinarily a
limited one. It gives the pleader an opportunity to cure the defects in the
particular causes of action to which the demurrer was sustained, but that is
all.” (Community Water Coalition v. Santa Cruz County Local Agency Formation
Com. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317, 1329.) 
 
The Court finds that by granting leave to amend after
sustaining Defendant Arriaga USA, Inc.’s demurrer, Plaintiffs were only allowed
to amend allegations relating to Defendant Arriaga USA, Inc. By adding
allegations regarding Defendants Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC and Dal-Tile LLC’s
corporate structure, Plaintiffs went outside the scope of the Court’s order
granting leave to amend. If Plaintiffs seek to make such amendments, Plaintiffs
must seek separate leave of Court. The Court grants the motion to strike SAC
paragraphs 549 to 551.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Dal-Tile, LLC’s
motion to strike is granted.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
November 6, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 