 Case Number:  23STCV10071    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles DEPARTMENT
17 TENTATIVE RULING  


AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY,
  
        
  vs.
 
P^2MG, LLC DBA P2MG,
  LLC, ET AL.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV10071
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 6, 2024


             Plaintiff’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 10 days leave to amend.             Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
strike is MOOT.              On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff American
Contractors Indemnity Company (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants P^2MG, LLC dba P2MG, LLC (“P2MG”), Michael E. Nelson (“Michael”), and Bakeyah S. Nelson (“Bakeyah”) for (1)
specific performance, (2) breach of contract, (3) express indemnity, and (4)
statutory reimbursement.              On September 9, 2024, P2MG and
Michael (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed the operative
Cross-Complaint for (1) breach of contract and (2) declaratory relief.             On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant demurrer to the Cross-Complaint and motion to strike portions
of it. On October 28, 2024, Cross-Complaints filed a request for
dismissal of the entire Cross-Complaint. The request was rejected because
Bakevah was included in the request but is not a named party to the
Cross-Complaint.  No opposition was filed. Legal
Standard A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿ (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿ “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ “The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿ (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) Discussion
       Plaintiff
demurs to the Cross-Complaint based on the following: (1) the Cross-Complaint
is barred by the doctrines of res judicata and/or collateral estoppel as a
result of this Court granting summary judgment in favor of Plaintiff on its
Verified Complaint on the same contract, i.e., the Indemnity Agreement; (2) the
Cross-Complaint fails to allege how Cross-Complainants were damaged by Plaintiff’s
purported breach of the Indemnity Agreement; (3) P2MG is not in good standing
with the California Secretary of State and therefore cannot maintain the
Cross-Complaint; (4) the Cross-Complaint is uncertain regarding whether it is
alleging breach of contracts other than the Indemnity Agreement; (5) Nelson
lacks standing to assert breach of contracts other than the Indemnity
Agreement; (6) Cross-Complainants cannot assert breach of a contract by Plaintiff
to which Plaintiff is not a party; (7) the surety bonds were not issued for the
benefit of P2MG, and therefore, Cross-Complainants cannot allege breach of the
surety bonds; and (8) no actual controversy between Plaintiff and
Cross-Complainants exists so as to warrant Declaratory Relief. Furthermore,
Cross-Complainants’ allegations are contradictory, confusing, and fail to
include factual allegations sufficient to support each cause of action. Although the request for dismissal of
the entire Cross-Complaint was not able to be entered because of a
technicality, Cross-Complainants have essentially conceded the demurrer has
merit by filing said request. The Court notes that Cross-Complainants have also
not filed an opposition.  Based on the foregoing, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend. As the demurrer is sustained in full, the motion to strike is MOOT.  It is
so ordered. Dated:  November    
, 2024                                                                                                                                                              Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court  Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.   For more information, please contact the court clerk
at (213) 633-0517.  Your understanding is
appreciated.































































































 