 Case Number:  24STCV22690    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  39            TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


January 6, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24STCV22690




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Shorecliffs Golf Management, Inc., GC-8, LLC, James
  Copelan, and Greg Hammond




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff James P. Vaughn



 
MOTION
Plaintiff James P.
Vaughn (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Shorecliffs Golf Management, Inc., GC-8,
LLC, James Copelan, and Greg Hammond (collectively, “Defendants”) for
defamation.  Plaintiff alleges he worked
for Shorecliffs Golf Management, Inc., and GC-8, LLC (collectively,
“Shorecliffs”), which operates a golf course; James Copelan (“Copelan”) was the
chief executive officer for Shorecliffs, and Greg Hammond (“Hammond”) worked in
security for Shorecliffs; Plaintiff was placed on administrative leave without
cause and then terminated; and  Copelan
and Hammond falsely accused Plaintiff of embezzling funds from Shorecliffs.  Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s complaint,
which Plaintiff opposes.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
First and Second Causes of Action: Defamation  
“Defamation is an invasion of the interest in
reputation. The tort involves the intentional publication of a statement of
fact that is false, unprivileged, and has a natural tendency to injure or which
causes special damage.”  (Smith v.
Maldonado (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 637, 645.) 
To state a cause of action for defamation, Plaintiff must allege either the
specific defamatory statements, or the substance thereof.  (Ellenberger v. Espinosa (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 943, 951.)  In support of the
first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants made one or more
statements to persons other than Plaintiff that Plaintiff had misappropriated
or embezzled funds or other material from SHORECLIFFS.”  (Complaint, ¶ 34.)  Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficiently specific. 
Plaintiff must allege  which of
Defendants made the alleged statements, to whom Defendants made those
statements, and in what context the statements were made.  Without such allegations, Defendants lack
notice of the claims against them.  
Therefore, the  Court sustains the demurrer to the first cause
of action.  For the same reasons,
Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails. 
(See Complaint, ¶ 43.)  
Defendants also
argue Plaintiff’s claims for defamation are time-barred.  In support of this argument, Defendants note a
declaration of Ryan Adams, a third party to this litigation, which is not
before the Court.  In his complaint,
Plaintiff also mentions an Adams declaration (Complaint, ¶ 27) as well as one by Lexy Backer (id., ¶ 30).  Neither declaration is attached to the
complaint.  The Court cannot consider
arguments that do not appear on the face of the complaint in ruling on the
demurrer.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  Further, despite Plaintiff’s allegation
he became aware of the alleged defamatory statements in May 2024 (Complaint, ¶
31) though they may have initially been made in May and June 2023, the issue of
whether the defamation causes of action are time-barred remains open because “[e]ach
publication [of a defamatory statement] ordinarily gives rise to a new cause of
action for defamation” (Shively v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1242),
and it is uncertain whether there were multiple publications in the instant case.  As such, the accrual of Plaintiff’s claims is
an evidentiary issue, not ripe for determination on demurrer.  
Third Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) 
 “The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community. The defendant must have engaged in conduct intended
to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.”
(Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001,
internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
In support of the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges Defendants
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct because “1) false and damaging
statements regarding alleged theft or embezzlement of funds were made
intentionally against Plaintiff and 2) a shocking ‘NO TRESPASSING’ Notice
prominently displaying Plaintiff’s name and photo had been published and shared
with unknown persons.”  (Complaint, ¶ 51.)  Again, these allegations are insufficiently
specific.  Plaintiff must allege facts,
not merely conclusions.  
Fourth Cause of Action: False Light  
To state a cause
of action for false light, Plaintiff must allege Defendants published a false
statement about Plaintiff, which exposed Plaintiff to hatred, contempt, or ridicule,
caused others to shun or avoid Plaintiff, or tended to injure Plaintiff in his
occupation.  (Fellows v. Nat'l
Enquirer (1986) 42 Cal.3d 234, 239.) 
In this regard, Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants made one or more
statements to persons other than Plaintiff that Plaintiff was ‘under
investigation’ following his termination, and implied that he was responsible
for misappropriated or embezzled funds or other material from SHORECLIFFS, and
also circulated a ‘No Trespassing’ notice implying wrongful conduct on behalf
of Plaintiff.”  (Complaint, ¶ 59.)  
As regarding
Plaintiff’s other claims, these allegations are insufficiently specific, as  Plaintiff fails to allege to whom Defendants
made these alleged statements and in what manner they were made.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 20 days of notice of this order. 
Defendants are
ordered to provide such notice and file proof of service of same. 
 