  Case Number:  21STCV03286    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







Marc Savas, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
state farm, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV03286




Hearing Date:


June 11, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
MOTION BY PLAINTIFFS MARC SAVAS AND ALICIA SAVAS TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
  FOR LIMITED PURPOSE 
 



            
            Background
This case arises out of an incident that
occurred on or about September 5, 2020, where the residential property of Plaintiffs
Marc Savas and Alicia Savas sustained significant property damage when a water
pipe in their home suddenly and accidentally burst (the “Loss”). Plaintiffs
allege that following the Loss, Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company unreasonably
delayed the handling, adjustment and resolution of the claim, and has taken
unreasonable coverage and claim positions. Plaintiffs filed their complaint against
Defendant and Does 1-50 on January 26, 2021. The complaint alleges (1) breach
of contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
            Discussion
            Plaintiffs move this
Court for an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2024.050, subd. (b) to
reopen discovery for the limited purpose of investigating Defendant’s “Water
Loss Initiative” “Water Loss Forum” and its policies, procedures, related
documents, and training concerning residential water loss claim handling. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050(b)
states in pertinent part: “In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this
motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier. (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party. (4) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.” 
Plaintiffs contend that they require the
opportunity to perform limited written discovery, third party discovery, and
depositions to address these materials and topics. Plaintiffs argue that they will
be severely prejudiced because these documents and topics are directly relevant
to Plaintiffs’ water loss claim and Defendant’s defenses being asserted in the
instant action, and they promptly sought leave to reopen discovery. 
            In opposition, Defendant
argues that the enumerated factors of Code of Civil Procedure Section 2024.050
weigh in favor of keeping discovery closed. 
            In reply, Plaintiffs
argue that the Court should not consider the factual arguments provided by
Defendant because they are not supported by evidence or declarations. Moreover,
Plaintiffs have acted diligently and had no reason to know Defendant improperly
withheld and concealed discoverable documents and information. 
The Code of Civil Procedure Section 2024.050 Factors
                        Factor (1):  The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery
            Here, Plaintiffs proffer
the Declaration of counsel Kevin M. Pollack who states that “through
communications with counsel handling separate matters against State Farm on
similar types of water loss and property damage claims, [he] became aware that
State Farm had improperly withheld information and documents in this matter
that were well within the scope of discovery propounded by Plaintiffs.”
(Pollack Decl. ¶ 4.) Moreover, counsel states that “discovery will establish
that State Farm’s water loss initiative, water loss forum, and related
policies, procedures, guidelines, and related documents and training materials
went into effect as early as 2017 and remained in effect during the pendency of
Plaintiffs’ 2020 loss – and indeed remain in effect today; thus, they are well
within the scope of responsive documents and information that should have been
previously disclosed and produced.” (Pollack Decl. ¶ 21.)
Plaintiffs also provide Dylan Schaffer’s
declaration, who has litigated multiple cases, including water loss cases,
against Defendant to show that Defendant withholds the Water Loss Skill Review
documents. (Schaffer Decl. ¶4, 5, 12, 15 and 17.) Dylan Schaffer opines “that
when asked to produce training and guidelines materials relating to water
losses, and when asked to produce materials relating to its claims handling
policies, procedures, claim manuals, and training materials regarding water
losses State Farm customarily withholds at least many hundreds of documents,
videos, digital presentations, and other materials that are responsive to such
requests …” (Schaffer Decl. ¶ 19.)  
            Defendant failed to
provide any evidence in support of its arguments. Moreover, Defendant’s
arguments are conclusory. For instance, Defendant concludes that “[d]iscovery
on such documents will add nothing to the claim-specific issues actually
involved in this case.” (Opp’n at p. 9.)
            The Court finds that
the first factor weighs in Plaintiffs’ favor. 
 
            Factor (2):  The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was
not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier 
 
            Plaintiffs
submitted Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One which shows
that Plaintiffs requested all documents referring, concerning, and relating to Defendant’s
policies and procedures “regarding how first-party property claims for
residential water damage were to be INVESTIGATED between January 1, 2019, and
the present.” (Pollack Decl. ¶ 5; Ex. 2, RFP No. 37.) Defendant sought a
protective order prior to providing the requested documents. (Pollack Decl. ¶
6.) After meet and confer efforts and executing a protective order on September
15, 2021, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “State Farm’s counsel specifically advised
[the] firm that it was producing the withheld responsive information and then
produced documents on October 5, 2021.” Defendant did not disclose it was “continuing
to withhold responsive documents on the grounds of confidentiality, trade
secrets, privacy, or some other privilege (i.e. a privilege log) as required
pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure, or otherwise give Plaintiffs any
indication whatsoever that they were withholding information and documents that
had been requested, were responsive, were germane and otherwise material.”
(Pollack Decl. ¶ 7.) Therefore, Plaintiffs state that they did not know about
the water loss initiative, water loss forum, and related policies. Defendant’s
arguments that Plaintiff should have asked the State Farm representatives about
their training which would have led to the discovery of the water loss
initiative, water loss forum, and related policies is unpersuasive. 
            The Court finds that
the second factor weighs in Plaintiffs’ favor. 
 
            Factor (3):   Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion 
will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party
 
            Here, trial is set
for September 11, 2024. Defendant argues that reopening fact discovery this
late into the litigation will further delay the case from going to trial.
(Opp’n at p.11.) Plaintiff concedes that a trial continuance will be needed if
Defendant does not produce the requested documents. (Mot. to Reopen Discovery
at p. 7.) 
            The Court concludes
that the third factor weighs in Defendant’s favor. 
 
            Factor (4): The length of time
that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the 
date presently set, for the trial of the action
 
Trial in this matter was initially set for
September 14, 2022. On or about April 22, 2022, the parties agreed to continue
the trial date to December 7, 2022, which the Court accepted. On or about
October 22, 2022, the parties stipulated to a second trial continuance and the
Court continued the trial to August 30, 2023. The parties exchanged pretrial
documents in anticipation of the final status conference; however, on August
10, 2023, State Farm’s claims handling expert advised State Farm that he had
been hospitalized and due to his health would not be able to meaningfully
submit to a deposition prior to trial. As a result, the Court granted a third
continuance to October 25, 2023. On September 28, 2023, the parties entered
another stipulation to continue the trial given that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
paralegal would not be available to assist with trial preparation. The Court
granted the stipulation and continued the trial to the current date of
September 11, 2024. Although, it has been approximately seven months since the
last trial continuance, and roughly two years since the original trial date in
this action, the Court notes that three of the four continuances were
stipulated by both parties and one continuance was requested by Defendant. The
continuances were not solely requested by Plaintiffs. 
The Court finds that this factor weighs in
favor of Plaintiffs. 
Conclusion
          The
Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to reopen
discovery for the limited purpose of investigating Defendant’s “Water Loss
Initiative” “Water Loss Forum” and its policies, procedures, related documents
and training concerning residential water loss claim handling. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of
this ruling.
 
DATED:  June 11, 2024                                 
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court