 Case Number:  23STCV27421    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  26 ¿¿¿1. If you wish to submit on the
tentative ruling, please email the clerk at SMCdept26@lacourt.org (and
"cc" all other parties in the same email) no later than 7:30 am on
the day of the hearing, and please notify all other parties in advance that you
will not be appearing at the hearing. Include the word "SUBMISSION"
in all caps in the subject line and include your name, contact information, the
case number, and the party you represent in the body of the email. If you
submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing
party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the motion, and the
Court may decide not to adopt the tentative ruling.
¿¿¿2. For any motion where no parties
submit on the tentative ruling in advance, and no parties appear at the motion
hearing, the Court may elect to either adopt the tentative ruling or take the
motion off calendar, in its discretion.
¿¿¿3. PLEASE DO NOT USE THIS EMAIL
(SMCdept26@lacourt.org) FOR ANY PURPOSE OTHER THAN TO SUBMIT ON A TENTATIVE
RULING. The Court will not read or respond to emails sent to this address for
any other purpose.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ Ninth and Eleventh Causes of
Action, for intentional infliction of emotional distress and violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act, respectively. 
Plaintiffs have agreed to amend the Eleventh Cause of Action to plead a
disparate-impact FEHA claim.  Defendants’
demurrer to that cause of action is therefore moot.
Defendants also move to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive
damages and the related allegations and Plaintiffs’ prayer for tax-neutralization
damages.  Plaintiffs have agreed to
remove the prayer for tax-neutralization damages, and Defendants’ motion to
strike that prayer is therefore moot.
The Court finds that the totality of Plaintiffs’ allegations,
all of which the Court must accept as true at this stage, is sufficient to
support both the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress and the request for punitive damages. 
Were Plaintiffs to prove all such allegations, a reasonable jury could
find (1) outrageous conduct by Defendants; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe emotional
distress on the part of Plaintiffs; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
such emotional distress.  See Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.  Further, a reasonable jury could find that
Defendants were guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice.  See Civil Code § 3294.  While Defendants might have a better argument
based upon the individual allegations of the Complaint, or even some
smaller subsets of those allegations, the Court must consider the totality of
the alleged circumstances in deciding whether Plaintiffs have adequately pleaded
their claims.
California Civil Code § 1942.5 expressly provides for punitive
damages “where the lessor or agent has been guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice.”
 Civil Code § 1942.5(h)(2).  Defendants’ argument that use of the word “guilty”
in that statute means that Plaintiffs must prove that Defendants have been
found guilty in a criminal proceeding is meritless.  “Guilty” is the same word used in Civil Code
§ 3294, which unquestionably does not require any such finding.
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike are accordingly
both denied.