  Case Number:  22STCV21540    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  26 ¿¿¿1. If you wish to submit on the
tentative ruling, please email the clerk at SMCdept26@lacourt.org (and
"cc" all other parties in the same email) no later than 7:30 am on
the day of the hearing, and please notify all other parties in advance that you
will not be appearing at the hearing. Include the word "SUBMISSION"
in all caps in the subject line and include your name, contact information, the
case number, and the party you represent in the body of the email. If you
submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing
party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the motion, and the
Court may decide not to adopt the tentative ruling.
¿¿¿2. For any motion where no parties
submit on the tentative ruling in advance, and no parties appear at the motion
hearing, the Court may elect to either adopt the tentative ruling or take the
motion off calendar, in its discretion.
¿¿¿
3. PLEASE DO NOT USE THIS EMAIL
(SMCdept26@lacourt.org) FOR ANY PURPOSE OTHER THAN TO SUBMIT ON A TENTATIVE
RULING. The Court will not read or respond to emails sent to this address for
any other purpose.TENTATIVE DECISION:Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings on the ground
that Assembly Bill No. 218 (2019-2020 Reg. Sess.) (Stats. 2019, ch. 861, § 1) (“AB
218”) is an unconstitutional gift of public funds prohibited by Article XVI,
Section 6 of the California Constitution. 
AB 218 provided a three-year window within which plaintiffs were
permitted to bring childhood-sexual-assault claims against public entities that
would otherwise be barred by statutes of limitations or claim presentation
requirements.
Defendant’s motion is denied.  The California Court of Appeal has held that
AB 218 does not constitute an unconstitutional gift of public funds.  West Contra Costa Unified School District
v. Superior Court (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243.  Although West Contra Costa Unified School
District was cited by Plaintiff in his opposition, Defendant does not
address it in its reply.  The decision is
binding on this Court.  See Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450 (holding that decision
of Second District Court of Appeal was binding on Superior Court of Santa Clara
County).  ¿¿¿