  Case Number:  23BBCV02666    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
sfv
  re development llc,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ernesto
  pallares, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02666
 
  Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel binding contractual
  arbitration and to stay action pending arbitration   



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff SFV RE Development LLC
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on November 18, 2019, it entered into a Residential
Purchase Agreement (“Agreement”) with Defendants Ernesto Pallares and Omar
Chavez Pallares (“Defendants”) to purchase the single family dwelling real
property located at 11285 Dora Street, Sun Valley, California, 91352 for
$370,000.  Plaintiff alleges that it
agreed to remove all contingencies for the purchase of the property, including
loan and appraisal contingencies, except the contingency for “Clear
Title.”  Plaintiff alleges that it
completed a wire transfer of the deposit amount of $11,100 on December 2, 2019
to Glen Oaks Escrow, Inc., which remains in escrow to date.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants thereafter
learned that they had to resolve a probate matter to be able to sell the
property and communicated this to Plaintiff and provided the case information
on May 21, 2020 (Riverside Superior Court, Case No. PRRI2000415); the matter
was closed on June 25, 2023. 
Plaintiff alleges that on June 12, 2023,
Defendants communicated to Plaintiff’s representative that they wanted to
renegotiate the purchase price, breaching the parties’ written agreement.  Plaintiff alleges that it demanded that
Defendants perform under the Agreement, but Defendants have failed to
perform.  
The complaint, filed November 13, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) specific performance; (2) breach of written
contract; (3) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (4)
declaratory relief. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel binding contractual arbitration and to stay the action pending
the completion of the arbitration. 
On October 28, 2024, Defendants Ernesto
Pallares and Omar Chavez Pallares filed an opposition brief.
On November 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            With the opposition papers,
Defendants submitted evidentiary objections to the declaration of Dan
Reichman.  The objections to paragraphs 5
and 9 are sustained, but the objections to paragraphs 11 and 12 are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendants to binding arbitration and to stay the action pending the completion
of the arbitration.  
A.   
Terms of the Arbitration Agreement
            Plaintiff moves to compel
arbitration pursuant to the Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow
Instructions (“Agreement”) entered into by Plaintiff and Defendants on November
18, 2019.  The document names Ernesto
Pallares and Omar Chavez Pallares as the sellers, but the Agreement is signed
by Omar Chavez Pallares and not by Ernesto Pallares.  Paragraph 22 entitled “DISPUTE RESOLUTION” of
the Agreement states: 
A. MEDIATION:
The Parties agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out of
this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to arbitration
or court action through the C.A.R. Real Estate Mediation Center for Consumers (www.consumermediation.org)
or through any other mediation provider or service mutually agreed to by the
Parties. … If, for any dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any
Party (i) commences an action without first attempting to resolve the matter
through mediation, or (ii) before commencement of an action, refuses to mediate
after a request has been made, then that Party shall not be entitled to recover
attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be available to that Party in any
such action. THIS MEDIATION PROVISION APPLIES WHETHER OR NOT THE ARBITRATION
PROVISION IS INITIALED. Exclusions from this mediation agreement are specified
in paragraph 22C.
B. ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES:
The Parties agree that any dispute or
claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration. … The arbitrator shall be a retired judge or
justice, or an attorney with at least 5 years of residential real estate Law
experience, unless the parties mutually agree to a different arbitrator. The
Parties shall have the right to discovery in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure §1283.05. In all other respects, the arbitration shall be conducted
in accordance with Title 9 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Judgment upon
the award of the arbitrator(s) may be entered into any court having
jurisdiction. Enforcement of this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by
the Federal Arbitration Act. Exclusions from this arbitration agreement are
specified in paragraph 22C.
"NOTICE: BY
INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT
OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE 'ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES' PROVISION DECIDED BY
NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED BY CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY
RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS TO HAVE THE DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY
TRIAL. BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR JUDICIAL RIGHTS
TO DISCOVERY AND APPEAL, UNLESS THOSE RIGHTS ARE SPECIFICALLY INCLUDED IN THE
'ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES' PROVISION. IF YOU REFUSE TO SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION
AFTER AGREEING TO THIS PROVISION, YOU MAY BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE UNDER THE
AUTHORITY OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS
ARBITRATION PROVISION IS VOLUNTARY."
"WE HAVE READ AND
UNDERSTAND THE FOREGOING AND AGREE TO SUBMIT DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF THE
MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE 'ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES' PROVISION TO NEUTRAL
ARBITRATION."
            Buyer’s Initials [DR]                                                  Seller’s Initials [OP]
            C. ADDITIONAL MEDIATION AND
ARBITRATION TERMS:
(1)
EXCLUSIONS: The following matters are excluded from mediation and arbitration:
(i) a judicial or non-judicial foreclosure or other action or proceeding to
enforce a deed of trust, mortgage or installment land sale contract as defined
in Civil Code § 2985; (ii) an unlawful detainer action; and (iii) any matter
that is within the jurisdiction of a probate, small claims or bankruptcy court.

(2)
PRESERVATION OF ACTIONS: The following shall not constitute a waiver or
violation of the mediation and arbitration provisions: (i) the filing of a
court action to preserve a statute of limitations; (ii) the filing of a court
action to enable the recording of a notice of pending action, for order of
attachment, receivership, injunction, or other provisional remedies; or (iii)
the filing of a mechanic’s lien. …
(Goharchin Decl., Ex. 1 [Agreement at page
8 of 10, § 22].)  
            Plaintiff
argues that on November 13, 2023, its counsel Rahel Goharchin J. served
Defendants with a demand to engage in arbitration and mediation pursuant to the
Agreement.  (Goharchin Decl., Ex.
2.)  The same day, Plaintiff filed the
complaint, which alleged in paragraphs 35 to 37 that Plaintiff would be seeking
arbitration and a stay of the action.  On
November 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served on defense counsel a Notice of
Pendency of Action, which was recorded on November 17, 2023 and filed with the
Court on December 6, 2023.  (Id.,
Ex. 3.)  Mr. Goharchin states that
defense counsel Adam C. Rapaport first agreed to stipulate to arbitration on
April 10, 2024 and asked Mr. Goharchin to prepare a stipulation, but Mr.
Rapaport did not end up singing the stipulation and instead filed an answer stating
via an April 18, 2024 email that, “Due to costs among other issues, my clients
have decided to stay in Court. Please see the answer filed today. Defendants
are amenable to early mediation.”  (Id.,
¶6, Ex. 4.)  
            In
the opposition brief, Defendants do not deny that an agreement to mediate and
arbitrate exists.  Rather, they argue
that Plaintiff has waived the right to arbitrate its claims, arbitration would
cause Defendants extreme prejudice, and the Agreement is unconscionable.   
            The
Court finds that there exists an agreement to mediate and arbitrate the claims
in this action and that the scope of the arbitration term is sufficiently broad
to cover the claims in this action.  Next,
the Court will discuss whether Plaintiff has waived the right to arbitrate and
whether the Agreement is unconscionable. 

B.    
Waiver
Public policy favors arbitration such that
claims of waiver receive “close judicial scrutiny” and the party seeking to
establish waiver bears a heavy burden.  (Lewis v. Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc.
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 436, 444.)  Waiver
in the arbitration context does not require a voluntary relinquishment of a
known right; rather, a party may be said to waive its right to arbitration by
an untimely demand, without intending to give up that remedy.  (Id.)  In this context, waiver is more like a forfeiture
arising from the nonperformance of a required act.  (Id.)  Relevant factors to consider in determining
whether a party waived its right to arbitrate claims include: “(1) whether
the party's actions are inconsistent with
the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery
has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of
a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent
to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either
requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed
for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant
seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of
the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage
of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken
place; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing
party.”  (Id. at 444 [internal quotation marks omitted].)  
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has waived the right to
arbitrate because Plaintiff actively pursued litigation by engaging in pretrial
proceedings and settlement discussions and by waiting a year (10 months) to
enforce arbitration, which has caused Defendants prejudice.  Defendants also argue that while formal
discovery has not yet begun, the parties exchanged substantial information and
engaged in settlement negotiations.  
However, as stated in the Agreement at section 22(C), it
shall not constitute a waiver or violation of the mediation and arbitration
provision for Plaintiff to, among other things: (i) file a court action to
preserve a statute of limitations; or (ii) file a court action to enable the
recording of a notice of pending action, for order of attachment, receivership,
injunction, or other provisional remedies. 
Here, Plaintiff filed the complaint on November 13, 2023 and filed the
Notice of Lis Pendens on December 6, 2023. 
Commencing this lawsuit to enable the recording of a notice of pending
action does not constitute a waiver of the arbitration/mediation provision in
the Agreement.  Further, merely filing
the action does not equate to a significant invocation of the “litigation machinery”
as argued by Defendants in their opposition brief.  (Opp. at p.3.)  
Next, Plaintiff filed this motion on
September 5, 2024, but prior to filing the motion, Plaintiff’s counsel
attempted to discuss mediation with defense counsel, where it appeared that
Defendants were initially amenable to mediation/arbitration, but ultimately
decided not to submit to mediation on April 18, 2024.  (Goharchin Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.)  Thus, the filing of this motion in September
is not such an unreasonable delay that the Court would find that Plaintiff
waived its right to pursue mediation and/or arbitration.  
Finally, Defendants have not shown how
they are prejudiced by any delay in filing this motion.  The parties acknowledge that no discovery has
been conducted in this action.  Although
Defendants argue that the parties have discussed settlement negotiations, this
in itself is not a ground to find prejudice or waiver.  In addition, although the case was filed
nearly a year ago, the case is still in its infancy stages, a Case Management
Conference is set for December 10, 2024, no trial date has been set, and no
motions (other than this motion to compel arbitration) has been filed.  As such, no substantive actions have been
taken in this litigation.  
Based on these factors, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not waived the right to pursue arbitration. 
C.    
Voidable Agreement/Subject to Recission
Defendants argue
that the Agreement at issue is voidable and subject to recission because
Defendants—in particular, Omar Chavez Pallares—lacked contractual authority at
the time of execution to sell the property. 
Defendants argue that the Agreement was entered before the probate
process was initiated, such that their contractual consent is voidable and
there are grounds for rescission where the contract was induced by duress,
menace, fraud, undue influence, or mistake of law or fact.  (Opp. at p.4 [citing Civ. Code, §§
1566-1579].)  Defendants argue that there
was a mistake of fact (unclean title), and that this is an equitable remedy
that must be decided by the Court and not by the arbitrator.  
However, the
arbitration agreement states: “The Parties agree that any dispute or claim in
Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration.” 
(Agreement at § 22.B. [Emphasis added].) 
As such, the parties agreed that claims in equity would be subject to
binding arbitration.  
D.   
Unconscionability
Defendants
argue that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because the Agreement was
presented to them without an attorney or real estate agent, without the ability
to meaningfully negotiate the terms, Defendants were in an unequal position to
understand the true market value of the property, arbitration costs are beyond
the financial means of Defendants, and the Agreement should be considered a
contract of adhesion.  
Omar
Chavez Pallares provides his declaration, stating that he mistakenly believed
that he had the legal authority to sell the property and was unaware that the
property had to go through probate upon the death of his father.  (O. Pallares Decl., ¶¶2-3.)  He states that in October 2019, his family
began getting cold-called by Dan Reichman of Plaintiff, who pressured Omar
Chavez Pallares into signing the Agreement. 
(Id., ¶4.)  He states that
he did not have a real estate agent or lawyer to assist him, so he lacked
knowledge and understanding when signing the Agreement (including the
arbitration provision), and he later discovered the purchase price was far
below market value.  (Id.,
¶¶5-7.)  He states he lacks the financial
means to afford private arbitration.  (Id.,
¶8.)  
The Agreement
itself is not a contract of adhesion as the parties are able to negotiate the
terms.  For example, parties are able to
negotiate terms such as contingency removal. 
(See Reply at Ex. 3 [Contingency Removal No. 1].)  Further, the fact that Omar Pallares lacked
an attorney and did not understand the Agreement are not in themselves reasons
to find the terms of the Agreement itself unconscionable.  Omar Pallares states that he was pressured to
sign the Agreement, but he has not stated that he was prevented from hiring his
own attorney, that he read the Agreement and failed to understand it, or that
he made attempts to negotiate the Agreement but was denied such
opportunities.  Moreover, his
“realization” later that the property was undervalued and his lack of financial
means to pursue arbitration are not reasons to find procedural or substantive
unconscionability in the terms of the Arbitration.  (The Court also notes that no evidence of
Omar Pallares’ financial status is provided to support his declaration
statement.)  
Omar Pallares also
fails to relate any of the alleged unconscionability to the arbitration
agreement itself. It appears on the form as a voluntary provision that he could
have initialed or not. 
E.    
Ernesto Pallares
Finally,
Defendants argue that Ernesto Palleres cannot be compelled to arbitration
because he never signed the Agreement.  Defendants
argue that under CCP § 1281.2, a nonsignatory cannot be compelled to
arbitration and that the Court has discretion to deny the motion where there is
a risk of conflicting rulings.   
CCP § 1281.2
states in relevant part: 
On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
…
(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. …
(CCP § 1281.2.)  
While the
Agreement the sellers as Ernesto Pallares and Omar Chavez Pallares, and the
buyer as Plaintiff (through Dan Reichman), the Agreement is signed only by Omar
Chavez Pallares and Dan Reichman (on behalf of Plaintiff).  Unless the Agreement refers to a different
Ernesto Pallares, it appears that at the time of signing, Ernesto Pallares was
already deceased as the probate matter states that he died on August 18,
2010.  (Mot., Ex. 5.)  As such, there would be no risk of
conflicting rulings if this action proceeded to arbitration.  Thus, the motion will not be denied on this
basis.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Plaintiff SFV RE Development LLC’s
motion to compel arbitration and stay the action pending the completion of
arbitration is granted.  A Post
Arbitration Status Conference is set for September 9, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. 
            Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: 
November 12, 2024                                    ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge of
the Superior Court