 Case Number:  24STCV17170    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOCKTON COMPANIES LLC – PACIFIC SERIES, et
  al.,
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  24STCV17170
  Hearing Date:  September 13, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Jane Doe
filed this action against Defendants Lockton Companies LLC – Pacific Series,
Timothy Noonan, and Arthur Carlin. The complaint asserts (1) discrimination,
(2) harassment, (3) retaliation, (4) failure to prevent, and (5) wrongful
termination.
            On August 12, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion to strike Plaintiff’s designation as Jane Doe. Plaintiff
filed her opposition on August 30, 2024. Defendant filed his reply on September
6, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
DISCUSSION
            “In the complaint, the title of the
action shall include the names of all the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
422.40.) Court proceedings are public, and “the right to access court
proceedings necessarily includes the right to know the identity of the parties.”
(Department of Fair Employment & Housing v. Superior Court (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 105, 111 (DFEH).) However, “[b]ecause of the inherently
sensitive nature of some proceedings, statutes specifically allow for keeping
certain parties’ identities confidential.” (Id. at p. 110.) “Even in the
absence of a statute, anonymity for parties may be granted when necessary to
preserve an important privacy interest.” (Ibid.) 
            “A party’s request for anonymity
should be granted only if the court finds that an overriding interest will
likely be prejudiced without use of a pseudonym, and that it is not feasible to
protect the interest with less impact on the constitutional right of access.” (DFEH,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 111.) “In deciding the issue the court must
bear in mind the critical importance of the public’s right to access judicial
proceedings. Outside of cases where anonymity is expressly permitted by
statute, litigating by pseudonym should occur ‘only in the rarest of
circumstances.’” (Id. at pp. 111-12, quoting NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1226.)  
The Court finds that the nature of this
particular case justifies the use of a pseudonym under the standards set forth
in DFEH. Specifically, Plaintiff’s claims involve allegations of sexual
harassment and unwanted touching, and the disclosure of her identity poses a
significant risk of potential personal and professional stigma due to the
personal nature of the allegations. 
Furthermore, Defendants are aware of
Plaintiff’s identity, and there is no indication that her anonymity has
prevented them from pursuing evidence to defend against her claims. The
purported “administrative burdens” of redacting Plaintiff’s name from public
filings are insufficient to override Plaintiff’s interest in privacy. Thus, the
Court does not find any substantial prejudice to Defendants from Plaintiff’s
continued use of the Doe pseudonym.   
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.

 