  Case Number:  23CHCV00632    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00632

 
Motion filed: 8/25/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Company,
Inc. (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Raymond Chun and Julie
Bokyung Chun (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: ok  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order: (1) compelling Plaintiffs
to submit their claims to arbitration; and (2) staying this action pending the
outcome of the arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE:
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted as to
Exhibits 1 and 3 and denied as to Exhibit 2.
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is granted as to
Exhibits A, B, C, and F, and denied as to Exhibits D and E.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or
around 3/26/17, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty.
(Compl. ¶¶ 4, 6.) Plaintiffs
allege that “defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves
within the applicable express warranty period, including but not limited to,
infotainment defects; engine defects; transmission defects; electrical defects;
[and] seat belt defects,” but Defendant “failed to either promptly replace the
Subject Vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the
Song-Beverly Act.” (Id. at ¶¶
11, 15.) Plaintiffs allege that on multiple occasions, they presented the
vehicle for repair at an authorized repair facility, but the defects remain. (Id.
at ¶¶ 20–26.)
 
On 3/6/23, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act §
1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2(a)(3); (4)
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. On 5/5/23, Defendant filed its Answer.
 
On 8/25/23, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel arbitration and request for judicial notice. On 9/28/23,
Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 10/4/23, Defendant filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration
Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)
 
The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by
presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to
compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
The moving party must also
establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a
controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively
establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai
Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
Here, the issue presented is
whether Defendant, as the nonsignatory manufacturer of the subject vehicle, may
invoke the arbitration provision in a contract of sale entered into between
Plaintiffs and the selling dealership, a nonparty to the instant action.
 
A.   
Retail Installment Sales Contract
 
Here, the parties do not dispute
the existence of a written agreement containing an arbitration provision. The
subject contract of sale (the “RISC”) itself, a copy of which Defendant has
attached to its moving papers, provides the terms for the financing of the vehicle
purchase. (Ex. A to Decl. of Jeannette Suarez.) The Court notes that the
proffered agreement appears to be incomplete and does not include the purported
arbitration provision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Defendant has stated the
arbitration provisions verbatim in the instant motion. Moreover, Plaintiffs do
not appear to dispute the existence nor validity of the RISC, nor that it
contains an arbitration agreement. Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant
has met its initial prima facie burden to show that a valid agreement to
arbitrate exists.
//
//
//
Scope of Agreement
 
Here, the arbitration provision in
the RISC provides, in relevant part: “Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope [of]
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises
out of or relates to your … purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at
your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not
by a court action.” (Def.’s Mot. 11:8–13 [emphasis added].)
 
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiffs’
claims in this action fall within the broad scope of the Arbitration Provision
because the causes of action relate to the purchase and condition of the
Subject Vehicle.” (Def.’s Mot. 11:20–21.) Here, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia,
that “these causes of action arise out of the warranty obligations of Defendant
in connection with a motor vehicle for which Defendant issued a written
warranty” namely that “defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including but not
limited to, infotainment defects; engine defects; transmission defects;
electrical defects; seat belt defects; among other defects and
non-conformities.” (Compl. ¶¶
10–11.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Defendant has met its initial burden to establish the existence of a
written agreement that would provide for the arbitration of Plaintiffs’ asserted
claims. However, in order to invoke the arbitration agreement, Defendant must
also establish a basis allowing it to enforce the agreement as a nonsignatory
to the RISC.
 
B.    
Nonsignatory Standing
 
Here, the agreement is executed
solely between Plaintiffs and nonparty Long Beach Honda. The right to
arbitration may generally only be invoked by parties to the purported
arbitration agreement. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) Here, Defendant argues
that it may nevertheless enforce the arbitration agreement of the RISC under
the theories of equitable estoppel and third-party beneficiary standing.
 
The parties disagree on whether
this Court should rule in accordance with Felisilda v. FCA US LLC¿(2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, or the recently decided Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023)
89 Cal.App.5th 1324 and its progenies. Both Felisilda and Ochoa discuss
a nonsignatory vehicle manufacturer’s right to invoke the arbitration provision
of a sales contract entered into between a plaintiff buyer and a nonparty
dealership. 
 
In Felisilda, the Third
District Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ agreement to the sales
contract constituted express consent to arbitrate their claims regarding the
vehicle’s condition, even against third parties, as the agreement unambiguously
included “an express extension of arbitration to claims involving third parties
that relate to the vehicle's condition.” (53 Cal.App.5th at 498.)
 
In Ochoa, the Second
District Court of Appeal declined to follow Felisilda, and instead found
that the nonsignatory manufacturer did not have the right to compel the
plaintiffs’ claims to arbitration under either theory of equitable estoppel or
third-party beneficiary standing.
 
Under the doctrine of stare
decisis, superior courts are bound by all published decisions of the Court of
Appeal, but where there is a split in authority, the superior court may choose
which appellate decision to follow. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) Here, this Court elects to follow the
Second District Court of Appeal’s reasoning in Ochoa, for the reasons
set forth below.
 
Equitable Estoppel
 
The doctrine of equitable estoppel
allows for a nonsignatory party to compel arbitration “when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda, 53
Cal.App.5th at 495–496; JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court¿(2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237; Goldman¿v. KPMG, LLP¿(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209,
217–218; Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co.¿(2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070 [Under equitable estoppel, a party cannot avoid
participation in arbitration, where the party received “a¿direct¿benefit
under¿the contract containing an arbitration clause…”]; Boucher¿v. Alliance
Title Co, Inc.¿(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that
equitable estoppel applies as “the causes of action in Plaintiffs’ Complaint
are inextricably intertwined with the Sales Contract because Plaintiffs allege
causes of action based on the condition of the vehicle they acquired through
the Sales Contract.” (Def.’s Mot. 13:9–11.) Defendant further asserts that “the
crux of the Complaint relates to the condition of Subject Vehicle that
Plaintiffs acquired under the Sales Contract.” (Id. at 13:21–22.)
 
The Court notes that the
arbitration provision in the instant action is identical to that in Felisilda,
which includes a provision extending the scope of the agreement to claims
involving third parties. (Def.’s Mot. 11:8–13.) Plaintiffs, in opposition,
nevertheless seek to factually distinguish Felisilda, instead
characterizing the instant sales contract as a mere financing agreement that is
separate and distinct from the manufacturer’s warranties. (Pls.’ Opp.
12:25–26.) Plaintiffs further argue that Defendant cannot invoke the
arbitration provision of an agreement that Plaintiffs do not seek to enforce
through the instant action. (Id. at 10:16–18 “Equitable estoppel does
not apply here because Plaintiff brings claims based on the warranties received
directly from AHMC … and on AHMC’s common law obligations, none of which depend
on the existence or terms of the Sales Contract.”)
 
The Ochoa court, in
accordance with Plaintiffs’ argument, found that equitable estoppel would apply
where the plaintiffs had sued the defendant based on a breach of the terms of
the sale contract, although this was not the case in Ochoa. (89
Cal.App.5th at 1335.) The Ochoa court ultimately found that “manufacturer
vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to
the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are
independent of the sale contract.” (Id. at 1334.)
 
The Ochoa court proceeded to
distinguish Felisilda by reading the “third party” language in the
arbitration provision “as a further delineation of the subject matter of
claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate” rather than the parties’
consent to arbitrate claims with nonsignatories to the agreement. (Id. at
1334–1335 [emphasis in original].) Ultimately, the Ochoa court found
that the plaintiffs’ claims did not rely on the sales contracts with the
dealership, and therefore equitable estoppel did not apply. (Id. at
1336.)
 
Defendant urges the Court to use
its discretion to follow Felisilda instead of Ochoa, arguing that
the Ochoa court relied on cases which predate both the UCC and the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, and since the enactment of those laws,
“California courts … have consistently recognized that manufacturer express
warranties are part of what consumers purchase when entering into sales
contracts.” (Def.’s Reply 5:2–5.) However, the Ochoa court directly
addressed this argument, finding that the defendant manufacturer cited to “no
more recent authority establishing that manufacturer warranty obligations are
implied terms in a retailer's sale contract.” (89 Cal.App.5th at 1336.)
 
The Court exercises its discretion
to follow the Court of Appeal’s holding in Ochoa, particularly where
here, as in Ochoa, “the sale contracts include no warranty, nor any
assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs
or other remedies in the event problems arise,” and Plaintiffs do not otherwise
allege any violation of the RISC’s express terms. (Id. at 1335.) The
Court further notes and takes judicial notice that Courts of Appeal have
consistently ruled in accord with the Ochoa holding as to this issue. (See
Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958; Kielar v.
Superior Court of Placer County (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614; Yeh v.
Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant concern the express
manufacturer warranty issued by Defendant, which is independent of and not
“intimately founded in and intertwined with” the RISC. Accordingly, equitable
estoppel does not apply to allow Defendant to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’
claims.
 
Third-Party Beneficiary
 
“A contract, made expressly for the
benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the
parties thereto rescind it.” (Civ. Code §
1559.) “Third parties may enforce a contract with an arbitration provision … where
they are intended third party beneficiaries or are assigned rights under the
contract.” (Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 840, 856.)
 
To show the contracting parties
intended to benefit it, a third party must show that, under the express terms
of the contract at issue and any other relevant circumstances under which the
contract was made, (1) “the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide
a benefit to the third party”; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce
the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the
reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.” (Goonewardene v. ADP,
LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “because
the Arbitration Provision explicitly embraces the type of claim Plaintiffs
assert against AHM—which encompasses claims arising out of relationships with
third parties who do not sign the Sales Contract— Plaintiffs’ warranty claims
necessarily require her to contend that AHM benefitted from the Sales Contract.”
(Def.’s Mot. 19:26–20:1.)
 
The Ochoa court discussed
the issue of third-party beneficiary standing and found that “the sale
contracts reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under Goonewardene.”
(89 Cal.App.5th at 1338.) The court further asserted that “if the signatories
had intended to benefit [the defendant], such a purpose would have been easy to
articulate,” and the contract’s reference to “third parties” concerns only “what
may be arbitrated, not who may arbitrate.” (Id. at 1339 [emphasis
in original].)
 
Here, the Court agrees with
Plaintiffs that Defendant is not an intended third-party beneficiary of the
RISC because the contract specifies that only Plaintiffs or the dealership are
entitled to compel arbitration of the claims. (Def.’s Mot. 11:8–13.) Any
assertion that Defendant may “incidentally or remotely” benefit from the
contract, without a further showing of the parties’ specific motivation to
provide Defendant with a benefit under the RISC, does not render Defendant a
third-party beneficiary to the contract. (Ochoa, 89 Cal.App.5th at
1336.)
 
The Court follows the reasoning set
forth in Ochoa, and notes that if the parties to the RISC had intended
to benefit Defendant, they could have easily articulated as such in the
contract. (Id. at 1339.) Here, as in Ochoa, “the parties’ choice
of the subject of the disputes they agree to arbitrate does not evince
an intention to benefit nonparties so as to affect who is entitled to
compel arbitration.” (Ibid.) Here, the contractual language is
unambiguous that only Plaintiffs or the nonparty dealership may invoke the
arbitration agreement. (Ex. 2 to Ameripour Decl., p. 5.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Defendant is not an intended third-party beneficiary to the RISC,
and therefore cannot compel Plaintiffs’ claims to arbitration.
 
C.   
Arbitrability
 
Finally, Defendant argues that the
question of arbitrability of Plaintiff’s claims must be determined by the
arbitrator. (Def.’s Mot. 21:18–20.) Here, as the Court finds that Defendant, as
a nonsignatory, cannot invoke the arbitration provision of the RISC under
either theory of equitable estoppel or third-party beneficiary, the Court
declines to reach this conclusion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.
 