  Case Number:  23TRCV00947    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint and Motion to StrikeMoving Parties: Defendants South Park Doggie and related entities.Responding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, the court rules as follows: the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn March 29, 2023 Plaintiffs Lauren Hogan and Armando Hogan (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint. On September 27, 2023, Defendant South Park Doggie, Inc. (“SPD”) filed a demurrer to the complaint.On September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against SPD; Moving Defendants; Doggieworld Enterprises; Aimee Varguez; Elizabeth Varguez; and DOES 2-20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Trespass to Chattel; (4) Conversion; and (5) Strict Liability – Dangerous Animal.On September 24, 2024, Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On October 11, 2024, Defendant SPD filed a notice of non-opposition to the demurrer.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs allege that Nayebdadash Defendants are the owners of two vicious dogs, which they left in the control of SPD. (SAC, ¶ 5.) SPD placed Plaintffs’ dog, Skye, in the same room as Moving Defendants’ dogs without supervision. (SAC, ¶ 13.) On the day the dogs were left with SPD, the Nayebdadash Defendants’ dogs attacked and killed Skye. (SAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants agreed to keep Plaintiff’s dog safe at all times while in their custody, and control. (SAC ¶12.) Plaintiffs further allege that SPD knew or should have known of the dangerous propensities of the type of dog owned by the Nayebdadash defendants and knew or should have known about the vicious disposition of the actual dogs in SPD’s care. (SAC ¶23-24.)LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentMoving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not stated a cause of action because Civ. Code section 3342 only applies when a dog bites a person, not another animal. Further, Plaintiffs’ strict liability cause of action is based on conclusory allegations.Merits of the Demurrer and Motion to StrikeA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Motions to strike have a similar meet and confer requirement.The court excused the parties from further meet and confer requirements after the last hearing. Accordingly, the court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.B. First Cause of Action: Breach of ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “The elements of a breach of oral contract claim are the same as those for a breach of a written contract: a contract; its performance or excuse for nonperformance; breach; and damages.” (Stockton Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.)If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)Here, Plaintiffs allege that they left their dog in the custody of SPD on August 9, 2022 “pursuant to written and oral contracts with defendants.” (SAC ¶10.) Plaintiffs do not set forth the contractual terms upon which they are relying. Rather, they simply state: “Defendants…agreed to care for Skye, keep her in a safe environment, monitor her whereabouts and movements and to keep her out of danger.” (FAC ¶12.) Defendants urge the court to consider the contract as one of bailment, by which they are under no obligation to insure Plaintiffs’ dog while it was in their possession. However, without the contractual language, the court is powerless to determine whether there was a contract between the parties, its scope, and what any breach would have been.Therefore, Defendants demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.C. Second Cause of Action: NegligenceIn order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)Moving Defendants demur to the second cause of action on the grounds that it too fails to state sufficient facts to support a cause of action. The Complaint alleges Moving Defendants knew the Nayebdadash dogs possessed vicious and dangerous propensities, but placed Skye in the same area anyway. However, there are no facts showing that the SPD defendants knew of these propensities so it is unclear how the Moving Defendants breached. It is common knowledge that a pet brought to a “playcare” would find itself surrounded by other pets. With no facts as to how placing one dog around two others was a breach, the cause of action fails.“It has been consistently held that ‘a plaintiff is required only to set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action’” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550. Internal quotations omitted.) However, by failing to provide any facts as to how or why the SPD knew of the dangerous propensities of the dogs involved, the Complaint fails to do so here, therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.D. Third and Fourth Causes of Action: Trespass to Chattel and Conversion“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “[Conversion] must be knowingly or intentionally done, but a wrongful intent is not necessary. Because the act must be knowingly done, ‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of contract, even though it results in injury to, or loss of, specific property, constitutes a conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels Int’l (1991) 235Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124“Trespass to chattel, although seldom employed as a tort theory in California…lies where an intentional interference with the possession of personal property has proximately caused injury. Prosser notes trespass to chattel has evolved considerably from its original common law application - concerning the asportation of another’s tangible property - to include even the unauthorized use of personal property: ‘Its chief importance now,’ according to Prosser, ‘is that there may be recovery . . . for interferences with the possession of chattels which are not sufficiently important to be classed as conversion, and so to compel the defendant to pay the full value of the thing with which he has interfered. Trespass to chattels survives today, in other words, largely as a little brother of conversion.’ ” (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th1559, 1566-1567.)Here, Plaintiffs make no attempt to plead intentional acts by SPD. As discussed above, the SAC does not provide any facts to show that SPD knew of the vicious tendencies of the Nayebdadash animals and therefore no duty to protect other animals from them.As there is no assertion of intentional conduct, the demurrers to the third and fourth causes of action are SUSTAINED.E. Fifth Cause of Action: Strict Liability – Dangerous Animal(a) provides “[t]he owner of any dog is liable for the damages suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, including the property of the owner of the dog, regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the owner’s knowledge of such viciousness.”Here, Moving Defendants argue that Civ. Code section 3342 is not applicable because Plaintiffs do not allege that any person was bitten. The court agrees because the statute explicitly applies only to owners of dogs who bite a person, and thus it is inapplicable in the instant case.2. Common Law Strict Liability“A common law strict liability cause of action may also be maintained if the owner of a domestic animal that bites or injures another person knew or had reason to know of the animal's vicious propensities.” (Priebe v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 1112, 1115; see also Judicial Council of Cal., Civ. Jury Instns. (2003–2004) CACI No. 462.) The essential elements of this claim are: (1) the defendant owned or kept an animal; (2) the animal had a vicious propensity; (3) the animal caused plaintiff to suffer injury, damage, loss or harm; and (4) before plaintiff was injured, the defendant knew or had reason to know, of the vicious propensity. (CACI No. 462.)Moving Defendants argue that the strict liability cause of action must fail because Plaintiffs only make conclusory allegations that Moving Defendants knew of the dogs’ dangerous tendencies or trained them to be vicious.Here, plaintiff asserts that the Nayebdadash defendants dogs “instinctively possessed aggressive, vicious and dangerous propensities” (SAC ¶54), that the defendants knew “of their habit of aggressively charging toward, attacking and biting other dogs” (SAC ¶55), and “trained said dogs to be aggressive toward other animals.” (SAC ¶56.) However, there are no facts asserted as to the knowledge of these facts by SPD. California courts have established that a dog is presumed to be docile and harmless until it exhibits violent behavior. (Drake v. Dean (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 915, 922.) Without facts establishing some basis for SPD’s knowledge of the viciousness of these particular animals, there is no basis for holding them strictly liable for Plaintiff’s damages.Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED.D. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition or otherwise shown that their SAC can be amended successfully to support general or exemplary damages. Thus, the court finds that there is no possibility of successful amendment.Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety without leave to amend.Defendants to give notice of ruling.