  Case Number:  23CHCV02085    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/8/24                                                                     
TRIAL DATE: 6/30/25
Case #23CHCV02085
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
(Request for
Production, Set 1)
 
Motion filed on 4/11/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant East Valley Towing, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Edward Sandstrom
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling Plaintiff
Edward Sandstrom to provide further responses to
Defendant East Valley Towing, Inc.’s Request for Production, Set 1, Nos. 7, 8
and 9.  Additionally, East Valley
requests sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel in the amount of $1,750.00.

 
RULING: The request for further responses is
granted.  The request for sanctions is
denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on 5/24/22 between Plaintiff Edward Sandstrom (Plaintiff) and Defendant
William Peterson (Peterson), an employee of Defendant East Valley Towing, Inc.
(East Valley).  Plaintiff claims to have
suffered extensive injuries as a result of the accident.  In this action, among other things, Plaintiff
has included a claim for loss of income and loss of future earning capacity.
 
On 9/1/23, East Valley served Plaintiff with Request for
Production, Set 1.  (Herme Decl. ¶2,
Ex.A).  After granting several extensions
of time to respond, Plaintiff served responses on 12/28/23.  (Herme Decl. ¶3, Ex.B).  On 1/24/24, East Valley’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter regarding deficiencies in the responses.  (Herme Decl. ¶5, Ex.C).  On 2/16/24, Plaintiff served further
responses to the requests.  (Herme Decl.
¶6, Ex.D).  East Valley still found
deficiencies in certain of the further responses.  Therefore, on 3/8/24, East Valley’s counsel
sent another meet and confer message regarding the deficient responses.  (Herme Decl. ¶7, Ex.E).  On 4/9/24, Plaintiff served a second further
response to the requests.  (Herme Decl.
¶8, Ex.F).  East Valley still found
Plaintiff’s responses to Requests 7, 8 and 9 to be deficient.  (Herme Decl. ¶9).
 
Therefore, on 4/11/24, East Valley filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further
responses to East Valley’s Request for Production, Set 1, Nos. 7, 8 and 9.  Additionally, East Valley requests sanctions
against Plaintiff and his counsel in the amount of $1,750.00.  Plaintiff has opposed the motion and East
Valley has filed a reply to the opposition. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
A party responding to a request for production shall
indicate that all responsive documents or things in a category in the
responding party’s possession, custody or control to which no objection is
being made will be produced.  CCP
2031.220.  Where a responding party
indicates an inability to comply with a request, the party may state that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to locate the
requested item; the reason the party cannot comply (the document/item never
existed, has been lost or stolen, was inadvertently destroyed); or, if not in
the possession, custody or control of the responding party, provide the name
and address of anyone believed to have the document.  CCP 2031.230. 
Further, any objections must identify with particularity the item or
category requested to which the objection is being made.  See Standon (1990) 225 CA3d 898,
901.  If the responding party asserts a
privilege, they must provide sufficient factual information to enable other
parties to evaluate the claim of privilege, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.  CCP 2031.240.
 
CCP 2031.310 provides, in relevant part: 
 
"(a) On receipt of a response
to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party
may move for an order compelling a further response to the demand if the
demanding party deems that any of the following apply: 
(1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete. 
(2) A representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with each of the
following:
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.
(2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”
 
The subject document requests, numbers 7, 8 and 9, seek
documents to support Plaintiff’s claim for loss of income and future earning
capacity.  As such, the requests are
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  See CCP 2017.010.  In his second further responses to these
requests, Plaintiff has asserted meritless and/or unsupported objections.  Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, the
requests are not overbroad, burdensome, harassing, vague and/or ambiguous.  
 
Plaintiff’s claim that he does not have to produce tax
related documents (i.e., 1099 forms) because they are privileged based on his
right to privacy under the United States and California Constitutions also
lacks merit.  The constitutional right to
privacy is not absolute.  Boler
(1987) 201 CA3d 467, 473.  A party
implicitly waives their constitutional right to privacy related to discovery
directly relevant to their claim and the essential and fair resolution of the
lawsuit.  Vinson (1987) 43 C3d
833, 842; See also Snibbe (2014) 224 CA4th 184, 196.  By seeking to recover for loss of income and
loss of future earning capacity, Plaintiff has placed his financial information
at issue making the documents requested directly relevant to the claims in this
action and discoverable.  Such discovery
may be permitted with certain conditions to protect Plaintiff’s privacy
interests.  See Williams
(2017) 3 C5th 531, 552-553. 
 
Plaintiff’s reference to FINRA and its website as having
responsive documents is vague and ambiguous as Plaintiff fails to identify what
documents may be in the possession of FINRA that would be responsive to the
requests.    
 
If Plaintiff claims that the only documents responsive to
these requests are his 1099 forms, he must produce such documents so that East
Valley can independently evaluate Plaintiff’s claims for loss of earnings and
earning capacity.  The Court also notes
that if Plaintiff claims he has no other documents to support his claim for
lost income and earning capacity (i.e., bank statements, invoices), he will be
precluded from later introducing such evidence to support his claims.    
 
Based on the foregoing, a further response and production
in accordance therewith, subject to a protective order, is warranted.  
 
The Court finds that sanctions against Plaintiff are not
warranted due to East Valley’s failure to further meet and confer after
receiving Plaintiff’s second further responses. 
The meet and confer correspondence sent regarding the initial responses
and first further responses does not set forth the authority provided in the
motion regarding Plaintiff waiving his right to privacy in the requested
documentation based on his loss of earnings and earning capacity claims.  (See Herme Decl., Ex.C, E).  As such, the Court finds that imposing
sanctions under the circumstances would be unjust.  CCP 2031.310(h).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request to compel further responses is granted.  Counsel for the parties are ordered to meet
and confer regarding the execution of a protective order, using the Los Angeles
Superior Court Model Protective Order as a guide, regarding the production of
any financial documents in response to these requests.  Further responses and execution and
submission of a proposed protective order is due within 20 days.  Production of documents will be due within 15
days of the Court’s execution of the Stipulated protective order.  
 
Sanctions are denied. 
     
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff failed to electronically
bookmark the exhibits attached to the opposition as required by CRC
3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the parties
are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the future may result in
matters being continued so that papers can be resubmitted in compliance, papers
not being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.  
    
 
 
 