 Case Number:  24CHCV01109    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/8/24
Case #24CHCV01109
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Motion filed on 5/13/24.
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Safora Nowrouzi
CLIENT: Plaintiff Argam Yeghiazaryan
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving attorney
Safora Nowrouzi as counsel for Plaintiff Argam Yeghiazaryan in this action.
 
RULING: 
 
On 5/13/24, attorney Safora Nowrouzi filed and served the
instant motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Argam Yeghiazaryan
(Plaintiff) in this action.  The proofs
of service attached to the moving papers indicate that the motion was served by
email on counsel for defendants and by email and U.S. mail on Plaintiff.  The motion was originally scheduled for
hearing on 1/14/25.  
 
On 5/20/24, attorney Nowrouzi filed and served a Notice
of Advanced Hearing indicating that the hearing on the motion had been advanced
by the Court to 7/8/24.  However, eCourt
shows that attorney Nowrouzi rescheduled the hearing to 7/8/24.  Regardless, the notice of the
advanced/changed hearing date was not properly served on defendants or
Plaintiff.  
 
The proof of service for the notice indicates that it was
served on counsel for Defendant Specialized Loan Servicing (Specialized) by
email at acoronadoking@houser-law.com
when the email address of record for Specialized’s counsel is rnorman@houser-law.com.  The proof of service indicates that the
notice of advanced/changed hearing date was served by email on Plaintiff at tikraneritsyan@gmail.com.  However, there is no indication that
Plaintiff agreed to accept service by email. 
See CCP 1010.6(c).  The
proof of service does not show that the notice of advanced/changed hearing date
was served on counsel for Defendant NBS Default Services, LLC (NBS).  There are no responses to the motion by any
of the foregoing parties to cure the defect in notice.  
 
If Plaintiff, counsel for Specialized and counsel for NBS
all appear at the hearing and waive the defect in notice, the motion will be
granted.  If not, the hearing on the
motion will be continued so that attorney Nowrouzi can properly serve all
parties with notice of the new hearing date on the motion.   