  Case Number:  19SMCV00806    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for relief from jury waiver by failing to post
fees is GRANTED.   
 
Some time ago, the court ordered that any party seeking a
jury deposit jury fees or the court might deem it a waiver.  And Code of Civil Procedure section 631
provides that one way to waive the right to a jury is by “failing to timely pay
a $150 nonrefundable jury fee, typically on or before the date scheduled for
the initial case management conference.” 
(TriCoast Builders, Inc. v. Fonnegra 2014) 15 Cal.5th 766.)  Defendant, although demanding a jury, failed
to deposit fees, which plaintiff asserts should be considered a waiver.  Defendant concedes it failed to deposit fees
as ordered by the court, but seeks relief from that failure, asserting that
this was the result of an administrative oversight and that there is no
prejudice to plaintiff.  Plaintiff
opposes.
 
The court has discretion to relieve defendant from its
error.  Pursuant to section 631
subdivision (g), the “court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a
trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.”  (Id.) 
In exercising its discretion, the court is cognizant of the importance
of the jury system in American jurisprudence—including in civil cases.  On the other hand, the court is also aware
that it was very clear about the need to post fees.  On balance, though, the court credits
counsel’s declaration that this was an administrative error caused by counsel’s
office.  True, as plaintiff points out,
there were a number of discussions between the parties as to whether to waive
jury.  But the point is not so strong as
plaintiff suggests.  Plaintiff’s
opposition suggests that defense counsel had confirmed on various occasions
that it was not seeking a jury.  If true,
that would greatly undermine defendant’s position here—that the failure to post
was an administrative oversight cured promptly upon discovery.  If, despite defendant’s current claims,
defendant had waived jury advertently, the court would hold the defense to its
waiver.  But in reading the correspondence
upon which plaintiff relies there is no clear jury waiver.  Rather, counsel is inquiring whether the
parties would agree to waive jury, but there is no statement that defendant had
already waived jury, nor even a clear promise that the defense would waive if
plaintiff waived.  Nor is there any
unequivocal acceptance of the purported offer to waive jury if mutual.  The court is also aware that in 2021, the
parties agreed to an 8 person jury—something inconsistent with the notion of
waiver.  (That was a COVID
stipulation.  The courtroom in which the
case was pending at the time could not hold a jury of 12 if social distancing
was required, so the court was asking parties to agree to a jury of 8.  However, the court was clear that if, by the
time of trial, social distancing was not required, either party could withdraw
from the stipulation at will.)  In short,
the court does not believe that there was a deliberate waiver.
 
The court also looks to see if there is prejudice.  A mere preference for a bench trial over a
jury trial is not prejudice, but prejudice can be found where the case is very
close to trial and one party has prepared its case assuming a bench trial
rather than a jury trial.  The reality is
that cases are tried differently to juries than to judges.  And there are procedural issues as well: whether
a party has had time to prepare jury instructions, the types of in limine
motions will be different, the need or desire to prepare a jury questionnaire
will be moot if there is no jury. 
However, the trial was continued due to the summary adjudication motion,
and as a result, there was plenty of time for plaintiff to prepare for a jury
trial after the defense announced its intention to seek a jury.  The court sees no prejudice here.  The court understands that a jury trial will
be longer than a bench trial.  But that
is not the kind of prejudice that moves the court much.  Plaintiff suggests that it conducted discovery
differently because it did not believe there would be a jury.  The court cannot imagine why it would do so
and there is no evidence of it.
 
Of course, the court is not ruling that there will be a jury
with regard to any causes of action sounding in equity.  As to those, the court will be the trier of
fact.  That said, the court has no
intention of bifurcating the case unless truly good cause is shown.
 
In short, weighing the evidence and the posture of the case,
the court exercises its discretion to GRANT the motion.  Defendant is relieved of its waiver.  The court sees that fees have already been
posted by the defense, so they need not be posted again.  The trial date remains.  The parties are reminded of the court’s FSC
order.  The court is aware that there
were many FSC documents already filed. 
However, the court requests that they be re-filed now that summary
adjudication has been granted, as the court believes that the old materials are
now out of date given that ruling.
 