 Case Number:  23SMCV04284    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  This is one of three related cases involving
legal work done by the Mashion firm and the underlying transaction.  Miles signed a retainer agreement, but there
was allegedly an understanding that Viridity would either pay the law firm
directly or reimburse Miles for the fees he paid.  Miles sues the firm for fraud.  All seem to agree that the suit is barred to
the extent it is for malpractice by virtue of the one year statute of
limitations.  However, fraud has a three
year statute and can, in some cases, be an exception to a malpractice action.
 
The fraud alleged is that the firm never explained the
effect of having Viridity pay Miles’s bills. 
(Of course, that assumes that the agreement was for Viridity to pay
directly rather than for it to reimburse Miles, but the court will so assume
for these purposes.)  The Rules of
Professional Conduct do not prohibit a third party from paying or being
responsible for paying the client’s legal bill, but it does require informed written
consent.  According to Miles, the firm
never got informed written consent because the firm never explained the
import of that agreement, although all parties seem to agree that Viridity paid
the initial retainer and that everyone was aware of that fact.  But even if Viridity paid the initial
retainer, that is not the equivalent of informed written consent—at least for
pleading purposes.
 
But even with that assumption, there are a number of
problems with that theory.  Specifically,
Miles fails to allege with particularity at least three elements of the
tort.  One is materiality: specifically,
Miles never alleges why the explanation would be material under the facts of
this case.  In other words, what is it
that is material that the firm should have said but did not say?  Related to that is the question of
reliance.  This is not reliance on
Viridity’s agreement to pay, but rather reliance in that there was a
consequence to that agreement about which Miles did not know but that if he had
known, would have caused him to act differently.  And, finally, the court does not see the
damages alleged.  How was Miles harmed by
the firm’s failure to explain the import of Viridity’s purported promise given
that the retainer agreement expressly obligates him to pay the firm?  All of those elements—materiality, reliance,
and damage—are elements of a cause of action for fraud.  They are not alleged with anything remotely
approaching specificity.  Because they
are not alleged adequately, the cause of action must fail.
 
The operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint.  The court will give Miles leave to amend one
more time within 30 days.  However, Miles
is warned that leave to amend will likely not be given again, at least if the
same problem persists.  The motion to
strike is denied as MOOT.
 
The court is aware of the claim that the meet and confer was
inadequate.  However, even assuming that
to be the case, the failure to meet and confer is not a ground to deny the
demurrer; all the court could do was to continue the matter to allow a meet and
confer.  Doing so would serve no purpose
here.  The court notes that the rule is
not the same with regard to discovery motions. 
The firm is also warned that it will need to conduct a real meet and
confer.  The issue is specificity; if the
firm requires more specificity, it should meet and confer with Miles to make
that known and give Miles an opportunity to add detail.  The court makes that ruling because
specificity is the type of deficiency that is often curable.  Because the court might well not give Miles
another chance to cure if it must rule on a demurrer, it is vital that Miles
give it the best shot now, and if there is a problem of which the firm is aware
that can be cured, the firm needs to make it known before a demurrer is filed
so that Miles can attempt to meet the problem.
 