  Case Number:  20STCV24771    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is OVERRULED in its
entirety (i.e., 2nd COA; Plaintiffs Plaintiffs have pled a
mandatory duty (see Manual and WIC section 361.3 and equitable estoppel applies
as to 8th COA).
 
(2)   DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is DENIED
in part and GRANTED in part (only paragraphs 120-135 are stricken). 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
arises from the death of NOAH CUATRO (“Noah”). Plaintiffs EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ
(“Eva”), individually and as Successor in Interest to the Estate of NOAH
CUATRO; A.C. (“AC”), a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina
Hernandez; E.C. (“EC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
Evangelina Hernandez; R.C. (“RC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, Evangelina Hernandez[2]
allege the following against Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”) and
HATHAWAY-SYCAMORES CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES (“Hathaway-Sycamores” or
“Hathaway”)[3]:
On July 6, 2019, Noah was murdered by his parents, both of whom are awaiting
trial. Noah’s death occurred after
multiple reports of abuse and torture had been made to the Los
Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services ("DCFS"). The allegations against Hathaway
are predicated upon vicarious liability (retaining an unlicensed trainee (Erika
Schreefel (“Schreefel”)) who did not communicate accurate information to the
dependency court (DC) that created the misimpression that Noah and his parents
were progressing towards reunification when in fact the family problems
remained the same or worsened during this time frame) and independent
negligence for its failure to supervise an unlicensed trainee. As for the County’s liability, it is
predicated upon DCFS’s alleged breaches of various duties.  
 
On July 1, 2020, Plaintiffs filed the action. 
 
On June 26, 2023, the County filed a demurrer to the 5AC, which
this court sustained with leave to amend and determined the MTS was moot. 
 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their sixth amended complaint
(6AC) alleging eight causes of action (COA) for: 1.     Wrongful death (Minor
Plaintiffs v. County) 2.     Negligence (Eva v. County) 3.     Wrongful Death (Negligent
retention and supervision) (Eva and Minor Plaintiffs v. County and Hathaway) 4.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway) 5.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway) 6.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. County) 7.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Doe Defendants) 8.     Negligence (Minor Plaintiffs v.
County)
 
On November 15, 2023, the court heard oral argument on the
demurrer to the 6AC and the MTS, which the court’s tentative was to overrule as
to the 2nd COA and sustain with leave to amend as to the 8th
COA. The court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing as to
both COAs. 
 
On December 15, 2023, the County filed ‘Defendant County Of Los Angeles’
Supplemental Brief In Support Of County’s Demurrer To Second Cause Of Action Of
Plaintiffs’ Sixth Amended Complaint’ (“County Supp. Brief”). That same day,
Plaintiffs filed their ‘Supplemental Memorandum In Opposition To County Of Los
Angeles’ Demurrer To Sixth Amended Complaint And Motion To Strike’
(“Plaintiffs’ Supp. Brief), which focused on the 8th COA and the
MTS. 
 
On January 5,
2024, the county filed its ‘Reply To Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Memorandum In
Opposition To County’s Demurrer To Eighth Cause Of Action Of Plaintiffs’ Sixth
Amended Complaint’ (“County Supp. Reply”). That same day, Plaintiffs filed
their ‘Opposition To Supplemental Memorandum Of County Of Los Angeles Re
Demurrer To Sixth Amended Complaint And Motion To Strike’ (“Plaintiffs’ Supp.
Reply), which mainly discussed the 2nd COA. Lastly, also on 1/5/24, the County filed a ‘Motion
To Seal Court Records; Memorandum Of Points And Authorities In Support Thereof’
(“Motion to Seal”).
 
On January 22, 2024, the court heard oral argument on the
matter and took the matters (demurrer x MTS) under submission.
                                             
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their seventh amended complaint (7AC). 
 
On March 11, 2024, after receiving the
transcript, the court issued its final ruling on the demurrer and MTS to the
6AC.
 
On April 8, 2024, Defendant County
filed the instant demurrer and MTS to the 7AC (along with a Request for
Judicial Notice (RJN)).[4] 
 
On April 9, 2024, Hathaway filed its
answer to Plaintiffs’ 7AC.
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their opposition. 
 
On April 30, 2024, the County filed
its Reply (and an RJN, which is granted). 

 
Plaintiffs’ Counsel: Counsel ROBERT REES and BRIAN CLAYPOOL. 
Defense Counsel (County): JACQUELINE SHULMAN
 
Discussion
 
Re: 2nd
COA[5] 
 
In its ruling
as to the 6AC, this court determined that California Department of Social
Services (“CDSS”) Manual of Policies and Procedures for Child Welfare Services
(“Manual”) is a regulation within
the meaning of Government Code sections 810.6 and 811.6. One duty found within
the Manual/regulation is what the DCFS is required to do when a
child is removed from the physical custody of his parents. (Manual
p. 174.) The Manual provides that upon a removal order, the County shall contact
the relatives given preferential consideration for placement. Eva was
the relative given preferential consideration as largely evidenced by the
allegations that “Johnson planned on placing
Noah with [Eva] after removal. Everyone else at DCFS agreed that [Eva] was the
best placement for Noah after removal” (7AC ¶122) and Johnson’s 5/15/2019
removal order application indicated that there was a relative “willing
to provide care for the child.” (¶¶103, 104). The 7AC now alleges that the Manual imposes a
mandatory duty, which is codified in Welfare
Institutions Code section 361.3. (FAC ¶¶105-107.)[6] The County disagrees. The court will address
each argument in the order presented in the headers of the demurrer.  
 
A.      Confidentiality
 
The County argues that since Eva was not Noah’s legal guardian in
2019, she was not entitled to information that a warrant had been applied for
and issued. (Demurrer pp. 12-13.)
 
However, as noted in opposition, that argument is irrelevant
because Eva’s claim is not based on a failure to disclose records. Instead,
Eva argues that the County allegedly failed to contact her when the removal
order was issued since she was given preferential consideration. (Opp.
p. 3:1-3.)
 
Even assuming that
disclosure of confidential information was at issue in the 7AC, both WIC
section 361.3 (a)(8)(B) and the Manual Section 361.3(a)(8) allow for
disclosure of details regarding the minor’s removal. 
 
The county social worker shall initially contact the
relatives given preferential consideration for placement to determine if they
desire the child to be placed with them. Those desiring placement shall be
assessed according to the factors enumerated in this subdivision. The county
social worker shall document these efforts in the social study prepared
pursuant to Section 358.1. The court shall authorize the county social worker, while
assessing these relatives for the possibility of placement, to DISCLOSE to the
relative, as appropriate, the fact that the child is in custody, the alleged
REASONS for the custody, and the projected likely date for the child's
return home or placement for adoption or legal guardianship.[7]
However, this investigation shall not be construed as good cause for
continuance of the dispositional hearing conducted pursuant to Section 358. (emphasis
added and capitalization added.) 
 
Therefore, this argument fails to defeat the sufficiency of the
pleading. 
 
B.     Temporary
vs. Continuing Placement[8]
 
Next, County appears to make a similar argument to above.
Specifically, the County argues that “[i]f Noah had been removed from
his parents through execution of the May 15, 2019 warrant, he may have been
placed with [Eva] as an emergency placement. [internal citation omitted].
Neither Noah’s detention nor an emergency placement …would have required the []
agency to provide notice to [Eva] of the facts surrounding Noah’s detention.”
(Demurrer p. 13:15-19.) 
Again, the reasons behind the removal order are not the
focus of the complaint. (See FAC ¶108 [obligation to contact Eva about removal
order].) 
 
To the extent that the County argues that because Noah was never
detained[9] such that “no one
outside of DCFS was entitled to information about the application for and
granting of a warrant authorizing Noah’s removal” (Demurrer p. 14:8-19), it is
unclear how the County reached this conclusion. In any event, whether Noah was
detained or not is irrelevant because the allegation is focusing on what the
County was supposed to do when the dependency court issued its removal warrant.

 
Therefore, this argument fails to defeat the sufficiency of the
pleading. 
 
C.    Mandatory
Duty 
 
See Section F infra. 
 
D.   
Confidential Information
 
Defendant again argues that WIC section 361.3 does not confer upon
prospective caregivers the right to have access to information. (Demurrer p.
18.)
 
As discussed above, this argument is irrelevant. 
 
E.    
Causation
 
County also argues that had Noah been reunified with his parents
or had the parents been given visitation rights if Noah was placed with a
relative, removal before the detention hearing would not have prevented his
death. (Demurrer p. 20.) 
 
Here, the court disagrees. 
 
For one, on a demurrer, the sole issue is whether the pleaded facts state a valid
claim no matter how unlikely or improbable. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604; Berg & Berg
Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1034.) Accordingly,
for Defendant to speculate that a different outcome would have happened
is improper. 
 
Second,
factually speaking, had Noah been placed with Eva during those 72 emergency
hours, he may have told his great-great grandmother something or
Noah may have done something, which may have incited Eva to take
whatever action necessary to serve as Noah’s continued placement, legal
guardian, or to adopt him. After all, as the County itself stated, “DCFS would
presumably have objected to Noah being returned to his parents.” (Demurrer p.
14:22-23.) 
 
Therefore, as
the facts are disputed as to causation, this presents a question for the jury,
not this court. (Opp. p. 6, citing Uriell v. Regents of University of
California (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 735, 744 [“Whether
a defendant's conduct actually caused an injury is a question of fact
[citation] that is ordinarily for the jury [citation].... Even ‘a very minor
force’ that causes harm is considered a cause in fact of the injury.”].) 
 
F.    
The Manual “Handbook”

 
The County argues that the Manual
contains information that is not a policy adopted as a regulation. 
 
As
previously observed, mandatory duty is imposed by an enactment. (County of
Los Angeles v. Super. Ct. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 627, 639.) In turn, the
term ‘enactment’ for purposes of Government Code section 815.6 means a
“constitutional provision, statute, charter provision, ordinance or
regulation.” (Ibid, emphasis added.) Thus, the Manual provides
mandatory duties. 
 
It appears
that the crux of the County’s argument is that while Eva is a relative under
section 361.3 of the Handbook, she is not a “relative” given preferential
consideration for placement of a child. (Demurrer p. 21:22-24.) But the County narrowly reads
the section of the Manual. 
 
Section 361.3
of the Handbook—Assessment of Preferential Consideration for Relatives—provides
the following:
 
(a) In any case in which a child is removed from the physical custody of
his or her parents pursuant to Section 361, preferential consideration shall be
given to a request by a relative of the child for placement of the child with
the relative. In determining whether placement with a relative is
appropriate, the county social worker and court shall consider, but shall
not be limited to, consideration of all of the following factors: . . . 
 
(1)   The best interests of the child,
including special physical, psychological, educational, medical, or emotional
needs.
(2)   The wishes of the parent, the
relative, and child, if appropriate
….
(6) The nature and duration of the relationship between the child and
the relative, and the relative's desire to care for the child.
 
(7) The ability of the relative to do the following: (A) Provide a safe,
secure and stable environment for the child.
…
 
(8) The safety of the relative's home…. The county social worker shall
INITIALLY contact the relatives given preferential consideration for
placement to determine if they desire the child to be placed with them.
(c) For purposes of this section: 
 
(1) "Preferential consideration" means that the relative
seeking placement shall be the FIRST placement to be considered and
investigated. 
 
(3)  
"Relative"
means an adult who is related to the child or the child's half sibling by
blood, adoption or affinity within the fifth degree of kinship, including
step-parents, step-siblings, and all relatives whose status is preceded by the
words "step," "great," "great-great," or
"grand" or the spouse of any such person even if the marriage has
been terminated by death or dissolution. However, only the following
relatives shall be given preferential consideration for the placement of the
child: an adult who is a grandparent, aunt, uncle, or sibling.[10]
(Manual pp. Page 176.1, 176.2, 177, emphasis and capitalization added.) 
 
Effectively, the
section provides that while Eva (as a great-great grandmother) may not have
been entitled to the FIRST or INITIAL contact, she was nevertheless to be
contact (perhaps just not the first to be contacted). 
 
In any event, the matter involves one of interpretation,
which neither party has briefed the issued. Furthermore, it appears that the
Manual conflicts with WIC section 361.3 because WIC was amended to revise the
preference to make a placement with specified relatives and, instead, to grant
a preference for placement with any relative)[11],
a purpose which is undermined by the regulation/Manual. If there is a
conflict between a statute and a regulation, the statute prevails. (See e.g., In re Emanuel R. (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 452, 464.)[12] 
 
G.   
Special Relationship
 
The court need not address whether there is a special relationship
between the County and Eva as it has determined that a mandatory duty exists
via regulation and statute. 
 
H.   
Civil Code Section 1714
 
The County argues that “without an allegation of breach of a
mandatory duty, Civil Code section 1714 does not apply.” (Demurrer p. 23.)
 
Here, the court has determined that there has been a sufficient
allegation of the breach of a mandatory duty. 
 
Therefore,
this argument is moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the demurrer appears to largely that argue hypotheticals:
that if Noah was removed and that if there was a detention hearing, the
dependency court may have chosen Noah to be placed with someone other
than Eva. But reworking the pleading to state facts different from those
alleged to achieve Defendant’s desired outcome is not appropriate on a
demurrer. Most importantly, the County, without a clear argument, appears to
argue that the Manual/handbook is not a regulation and therefore does not
provide a mandatory duty. Even
assuming arguendo that the Manual was not a regulation, WIC section
361.3 provides the mandatory duty that “In any case in
which a child is removed from the physical custody of his or her parents
pursuant to Section 361” (WIC section 361.3(a)), “[t]he county social worker shall
initially contact the relatives given preferential consideration for placement
to determine if they desire the child to be placed with them” (WIC section (8)(B)), a
relative including a great-great grandmother. (WIC section
361.3(c)(2).) The County did not contact the relative (i.e., Eva), hence, the
allegation that the County breached its mandatory duty. Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer to the 2nd COA is OVERRULED. 
 
Re: 8th COA
(Minor Plaintiffs and Equitable Estoppel)
 
Previously, the court sustained the
demurrer as to the 8th COA because Plaintiffs need not have
pled all facts, just sufficient facts.
(7/20/23 Ruling p. 10 of 12.) However, the court did not mention an added layer
of pleading requirements when filing suit against a government entity.
(See 7/20/23 Ruling, p. 7 of 12 [citation to C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872 [when
filing a government tort claim, not every fact must be pled
with specificity]. 
 
"In California all government
tort liability is now dependent on statute.” (Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969)
269 Cal. App. 2d 803, 808.) As a result, any cause of action against a public
entity, must be alleged
with particularity, not with generalities. (Id.; also, Searcy
v. Hemet Unified School District (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) “In
view of the fact that tort causes of action against public entities are now
based on statute, the general rule that statutory causes of action must be
pleaded with particularity is applicable. Every fact
essential to the existence of statutory liability must be pleaded.” (Id.
at 809.) 
 
Here, the Minor Plaintiffs' Government
Tort Claims provided a general statement of abuse. (e.g.,
there were reports made to the hotline about suspected abuse). As for the
specific details of the abuse—abuse which, as Defendant itself contends only
Minor Plaintiffs were aware of (Demurrer p. 26:12-15)—¿Plaintiffs allege that the County "in
a premeditated attempt to ensure that neither [Eva] nor Claypool would
have the ability to speak to the children to ascertain the specific abuse
inflicted upon them by their parents before the statute of limitations
expired" knowingly concealed the whereabouts of Minor Plaintiffs; County
social workers refuse to allow Eva to speak to the children; and conveyed
threats to Eva. (7AC pp. 44-47.) Thus, Eva had no information about the siblings’ abuse and no way to
obtain the information until the February 17, 2023 deposition and late March
2023 when Plaintiff E.C., the oldest of the three siblings, disclosed to Eva a
host of trauma he endured and saw. (FAC ¶¶90, 91.) 
 
Thus, the County's affirmative acts
that prevented the children from disclosing the abuse to Eva supports a
finding of estoppel. (C.f., Demurrer p. 26, citing J.J. v. Cty. of
San Diego, 223 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1228 (2014) [foster child could not assert
county estopped from enforcing claims requirement where alleged threats of
retaliation did not prevent her from disclosing abuse to her parents and county
social workers].) 
 
To the extent that the County
argues that “Mr. Rees had
unfettered access to minor Plaintiffs unredacted juvenile case files, including
DCFS records, as well as to minor Plaintiffs, their caregivers, and service
providers” (Demurrer p. 26, fn. 9), it is an assumption that
those records may have contained specific facts necessary to
allege negligence against the county. Frankly, the records may have been
altered, as Plaintiffs allege that the County had previously filed false reports with the dependency court that Eva
was traumatizing the children by talking about the case such that the
dependency court terminated visitation rights].) (See FAC ¶194.) After all, as Plaintiffs allege, "Aviles
had a reasonable suspicion that Plaintiffs A.C., E.C., and R.C. were also being
abused and neglected, yet did not report her suspicions," suggesting that
proper documentation was not made (and the access to records would not be
helpful). 
 
Therefore, though on two previous
accounts the court has indicated that it finds defenses to the SOL do not
apply, after being better apprised of the facts and considering the details of
the allegations, court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the 8th COA. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer as to the 8th COA
is OVERRULED as equitable estoppel applies. 
 
Re: Motion to Strike
 
The court will address the MTS in the order as presented in the
motion. 
 
A.     Paragraphs 89-95 
 
DENIED: As those relate to the Minor
Plaintiffs 8th COA, they are relevant. 
 
B.     2nd COA
 
DENIED: As the court overrules the
demurrer as to the 2nd COA, paragraphs 103-115 are relevant, proper,
and do not create confusion. As for paragraph 115, though the court has
concluded that Aviles’ testimony does not alone create a mandatory duty, the
paragraph is not using her testimony to establish a mandatory duty. Instead,
the allegation is used to support Plaintiffs’ position that Eva had preferential consideration in
the eyes of DCFS and should have been treated as such by being contacted by
DCFS.
 
C.    Conduct of Noah’s
Parents After His Death
 
GRANTED: As those allegations are
inflammatory and not relevant as what is relevant is what happened prior to
Noah’s death, they are stricken. 
 
D.    184(d), 185, 186,
202, and 203
 
DENIED: As the court has overruled the
demurrer to the 8th COA and the allegations. Though certain case
citations are unnecessary, that does not render them improper. 
 
E.     Conclusory Statements
(188, 189, 194, 196, 201)
 
DENIED: Those allegations are relevant
as they support a finding of equitable estoppel. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the MTS is
granted and denied in part (i.e., only paragraphs stricken are 120-135).


