 Case Number:  23STCV08261    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JOHNNY
  JEE AND LOUISE JEE, Individuals,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
FIRST
  AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, a California Corp., and Does 1-15,
  Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 23STCV08261  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 04/13/2023  
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 09/08/2023]
Trial
  Date: 03/10/2025



 
Hearing Date:             Wednesday, March 6, 2024  
Moving
Party:             Defendant
First American Title Insurance
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Johnny Jee and Louise Jee
Motion:
Defendant’s Motion to Strike       
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 

 

BACKGROUND
Procedural
History - 
            Johnny
Jee and Louise Jee (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed an initial Complaint on
April 13, 2023 against First American Title Insurance Company (Defendant) for
two causes of action: (1) breach of policy title insurance, and (2) breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiffs followed their initial
Complaint with a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on September 8, 2023, which
included as an exhibit, the policy allegedly breached. 
            The
motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion to Strike (Motion) punitive
damages from the FAC. Specifically, Defendant requests that the Court strike
the following from the FAC:

Page
     20, lines 10-13: “This conduct, among other things, constituted fraud,
     malice, oppression, and despicable conduct, and evidences a deliberate and
     conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights under the Title Policy [sic]
     Exemplary and punitive damages should, therefore be awarded in an amount
     to be determined at trial.”
Page
     21, line 4: “Exemplary and punitive damages in a sum to be determined by
     the trier of fact.”

 Plaintiffs
oppose this Motion; Defendants filed a reply.
 
Factual
Background – 
            Plaintiffs
are the sole owners in fee title of the property located at 328 Harrison
Avenue, Claremont, California 91711 (the Property) (FAC, ¶ 5.) The Property,
which contains a three-bedroom home, is located in a historical district that
is a highly desirable area. (FAC, ¶ 15(d).) In connection with the purchase of
the Property, Defendant issued its Eagle Policy of Title Insurance (the Policy),
insuring the title of the Property upon close of escrow. (FAC, ¶ 5.) Escrow
closed on August 21, 2020, and the Policy took effect the same day. 
            In November of 2020, Plaintiffs
received a survey of their Property showing that the adjoining property owners
(the Neighbors) had erected fences on portions of Plaintiffs’ property and had
poured concrete (the Encroachments) on this portion for their own personal use,
excluding Plaintiffs from this portion of Plaintiffs’ Property. (FAC, ¶ 7.)
After notifying Defendant of the issue, Defendant issued a response noting they
agreed with the survey and would look into the issue. (FAC, ¶ 8.)
            After contacting and receiving no
response from the Neighbors, Defendant informed Plaintiffs that “Unless, or
until, the Neighbors provide a response First American [Defendant] will proceed
under the assumption that Someone claims a right to use a portion of the Land
for a special purpose…” (FAC, ¶ 9.) In so doing, Defendant retained Mr. Daniel
Poyourow (Poyourow) to appraise Plaintiffs’ loss. Poyourow’s  valuation of the Property was $730,000
without the Encroachments and $716,000 with the Encroachments, therefore Plaintiff’s
loss was valued at $14,000, Defendant subsequently issued a check for the
$14,000 loss. (FAC, ¶ 14.)
            Plaintiffs disagreed with this evaluation,
hired their own appraiser Kevin Apor (Apor) who concluded that Defendant’s
appraisal of the land was unreasonable, inaccurate, and flawed. (FAC, ¶ 15.)
Plaintiffs’ appraisal valued the Property at $780,000 with the Encroachments
and that the loss because of the Encroachments was $179,000[1],
not $14,000. Additionally, Apor noted purported errors in Defendant’s appraisal.
(FAC ¶¶ 15a-15n). After bringing these errors to the attention of Defendant and
Poyourow, Plaintiffs allege that Poyourow conceded that “reasonable minds may
differ, arguably the sales data [Mr. Poyourow’s sales data] is sufficient to
support a value estimate of $740,000[2].”
(FAC, ¶ 16h.) Plaintiffs allege that Poyourow offered no explanation for
choosing the lower number. 
            Plaintiffs
allege that this failure to do a thorough and fair investigation of Plaintiffs’
claim is the basis for their causes of action and that this conduct constituted
fraud, malice, oppression, and despicable conduct that warrants punitive
damages.   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Meet and Confer – 
Legal Standard & Analysis for Meet and
Confer
             “Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (CCP § 435.5(a).) The
Declaration of Edward W. Racek (Racek Decl.) states that the parties conferred telephonically
on October 9, 2023, but were unable to reach an agreement. (Racek Decl., ¶ 3.)
Nonetheless, the requirements of CCP § 435.5(a) are satisfied. The Court now
turns its attention to the Motion. 
 
Motion to Strike – 
Legal Standard for Motion to Strike
            The
court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
            A motion to strike any pleading must
be filed “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or
stipulation. [CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to
strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon
a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
            The Court notes that motions to
strike punitive damages may be granted, where the alleged facts do not support
conclusions of malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of
Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
Analysis for Motion to Strike
            In
their moving papers, Defendant contends that none of the allegations in the FAC
rise to the level required for an award of punitive damages. As explained
below, the Court agrees. CIV § 3294
governs punitive damages and provides the following: 
 
“In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.” (CIV § 3294(a).)
 
            CIV § 3294(c)(1)
provides the following definitions shall apply to this section:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.
 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
            Upon
opposition, Plaintiffs put forth two primary arguments: (1) the policy
application was defective and (2) the appraisal was conducted contrary to Overholtzer
v. Northern Counties Title Ins. Co. (1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 113 (“Overholtzer”).
Plaintiff argues that these actions constitute malice, fraud, or oppression.
The Court disagrees and takes each contention in turn. 
a)    
Disagreements Over Defendant’s
Policy Do Not Amount to Malice, Fraud, nor Oppression
            The
first contention that Plaintiffs put forth is that when Defendant was alerted
to the Encroachments, and did not hear back from the Neighbors, Defendant wrongly
proceeded to assess the claim as if the Encroachments were an easement. Plaintiffs
point out that under California law an easement is the right to use the land of
another for a specific purpose and that the easement holder cannot exclude the
owner of the land from the use of the land for other purposes. (Opposition
Papers, 4:6-11.) The Policy itself defines an easement as “the right of someone
else to use the Land for a special purpose.” (FAC, Exh. B, “Definitions”.) The
crux of the contention here is that under the labeled risk categories,
Plaintiffs argue that this should have been handled under Covered Risk 5: “Someone
else has a right to limit Your use of the Land.” Instead, Defendant proceeded
under Covered Risk 4: “Someone else has an Easement on the Land.” (FAC, Exh. B,
Covered Risks.) 
            Here,
Plaintiffs argue that this is a misrepresentation of the operative provisions
of the Policy and liken the instant case to Amerigraphics, Inc. v. Mercury Casualty
Co. (3020) 182 Cal.App.4th 1538 (“Amerigraphics”). In Amerigraphics
the insured plaintiff brought an action against the insurer-defendant for
breach of contract and bad faith. There, the court found evidence that warranted
punitive damages because the evidence demonstrated that the insurer-defendant
never advised the insured about the available coverages, that the insurer-defendant
twice communicated to the insured-plaintiff that certain coverages were not available,
and that the insurer-defendant denied coverage based on an investigation that
never occurred. (Amerigraphics, supra, at 1559-1560.)
            The
Court can distinguish the instant case, the facts are simply not as malicious.
Defendant never informed Plaintiff that coverage was not available, nor did
Defendant deny coverage. The dispute arises out of how much Defendant should have
paid out with regard to the applicable Policy. Additionally, whereas in Amerigraphics
the jury found, and the court affirmed, a finding of fraud based on the false
information communicated by insurer-defendant, there is no such allegation nor
cause of action for fraud here. 
b)    
Disagreements Over Defendant’s Appraisal
Do Not Amount to Malice, Fraud, nor Oppression
            Plaintiffs’
second contention is that that appraisal process was completed contrary to Overholtzer,
and Defendant’s lack of adequate response warrant punitive damages. 
            Plaintiffs
document extensive issues with Defendant’s appraisal process. Before the Court turns
its attention to those issues, an overview of what Overholtzer requires is
beneficial. Overholtzer held that when a title insurer experiences a
loss in value due to a defect in the title, “liability should be measured by
diminution in the value of the property caused by the defect in title as of the
date of the discovery of the defect, measured by the use to which the property
is then being devoted.” (Overholtzer, supra, at 130.) Plaintiffs
contend that Defendant’s appraisal, conducted by Poyourow, did not adhere to
this standard. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s appraisal method used the
sales of properties without any homes on them in addition to sales of homes in
the area. (Opposition Papers, 5:22-3 – 6:1-8.) Additionally, Plaintiffs contend
that Defendant’s appraisal:

Failed
     to consider the damages caused by the Neighbors fence
Failed
     to consider that the Neighbor’s fence prevented any access to Plaintiffs’
     garage and violated fire codes
Failed
     to note that Plaintiffs would be assessed property taxes for the portion
     of the Property they could not use

(Opposition Papers, 7:13-25.)
            Moreover,
Plaintiffs assert that Defendant’s appraisal took into consideration unimproved
parcels of vacant land, and properties that were not remotely comparable to the
location of Plaintiff’s home. (Opposition Papers, 6:21-27.)
            After
bringing these errors to Defendant’s attention, Poyourow conceded that he had
not evaluated the water intrusion into Plaintiffs’ garage caused by the Encroachments
nor the loss of storage due to the inaccessibility of the garage caused by the Encroachments.
Plaintiffs further contend that not only was the appraisal faulty but that Defendant,
when approached about applying the policy under Covered Risk 5 stated that
Covered Risk 5 “only protected against covenants”, however the Policy contains
no such wording. 
            Plaintiffs
argue that together with the refusal to correct the errors in the faulty appraisal,
the misapplication and misrepresentation of the Policy is akin to the deceitful
conduct that occurred in Mazik v. Geico General Ins. Co. (2010) 35
Cal.App.5th 455 (“Mazik”). In Mazik an insured motorist
brought an action against their insurer alleging bad faith breach of the
insurance contract after an accident occurred and the motorist filed a claim.
There the Mazik Court found that the initial claims adjuster admitted
that the initial claim evaluation omitted important information that appeared
in plaintiff’s medical records after plaintiff’s accident including: (1) that
plaintiff was still on crutches several weeks after the accident (2) that
plaintiff had back pain despite no history of back problems, (3) the fracture
in plaintiff’s heel bone was severe, (4) over five months after the accident
plaintiff’s symptoms were worse when attempting to walk, plaintiff was
experiencing significant discomfort, and was medicating with Vicodin and ibuprofen,
in addition to several other pertinent details that would have counseled a
different outcome than rejecting the initial claim. (Mazik, supra, 465.)

            Again,
the Court can distinguish the instant case from  Mazik. Although there are allegations that
the initial appraisal by Poyourow was faulty, there are no allegations that
Defendant intentionally omitted information or deliberately avoided unfavorable
facts. Here, there in fact was a Policy that was honored. Again, the debate is
whether the amount was correct. However, the conduct of Defendant – who themselves
acknowledge may amount to a breach – does not reach the level required to
warrant punitive damages. Therefore, the Motion is granted.  
    
Leave to Amend – 
Legal Standard and Analysis for Leave to
Amend
            Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court
shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is reasonable
possibility of successful amendment, the Court shall grant Plaintiffs 20 days
leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
             Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are granted 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 6, 2024
 
_______________________
Rolf Treu
Judge of the
Superior Court


