  Case Number:  22CHCV00176    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JANUARY 17, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 22CHCV00176

 
 
Demurrer with Motion to Strike Filed: 9/26/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Calatlantic Group, Inc. and
Lennar Title, Inc. (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jerry R. Holly, an
individual (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants demur to the
third and fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s third amended complaint (“TAC”).
Moving Defendants also seek an order striking portions of the TAC relating to
attorney fees and punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. The
motion to strike paragraphs 57 and 70 from Plaintiff’s TAC is granted without
leave to amend and denied as to the remainder. Moving Defendants to file their
Answer to Plaintiff’s TAC within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On 9/26/23, Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike. On 9/27/23, Raincross filed its notice of joinder to the
instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 1/4/24, Plaintiff filed his
opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike. On 1/10/24, Moving Defendants
filed their reply.
 
DEMURRER 
 
Moving Defendants¿demur to the
third and fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s TAC pursuant Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions¿(e)¿and (f),¿arguing that each cause of
action fails because¿it (1) fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿a cause
of action against Moving Defendants;¿and (2) is therefore uncertain. 
 

Meet
     and Confer

 
 
Here, counsel for Moving Defendants
declares that on 9/21/23, he sent a letter to Plaintiff’s attorney detailing
the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Decl. of Preston
L. Block, ¶ 2.) The
parties’ attorneys met and conferred telephonically on 9/22/23 but were unable
to reach an agreement. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
the demurrer must be denied because “the Code required Defendants’ counsel to
hold (or at least seek) a ‘speaking’ meet and confer by no later than September
21, 2023. This did not occur. … By the time Defendants’ counsel actually spoke
with Plaintiff’s counsel by telephone on September 22, 2023, the deadline for
the ‘speaking’ meet and confer had passed.” (Pl.’s Opp. 11:6–11.)
 
Moving Defendants argue on reply
that their attorney sent the letter prior to the meet and confer deadline, and
“professional courtesy dictates that if Plaintiff’s counsel took issue with the
timing of the request, the appropriate course of action upon receipt is to
respond accordingly. It is not appropriate, however, to engage in bad faith
gamesmanship by waiting until time expires before responding to the request.”
(Defs.’ Reply 2:16–19.) “Even if the meet and confer process was insufficient,
that would not be grounds to overrule the Demurrer.” (Id. at 3:1–2.)
 
The Court agrees with Moving
Defendants, noting that “a determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
 

Failure
     to Allege Facts Sufficient to State a Cause of Action

 
1.     
Financial Elder Abuse
 
Plaintiff alleges in his third cause of
action that Defendants violated Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30
et seq. (the “Elder Abuse Act”), which applies to California residents over the
age of 65. (TAC ¶¶
59–66.)
Under the Elder Abuse Act, one has committed “financial abuse” of an elder
adult if one “takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult,” either for a wrongful use,
with intent to defraud, or by undue influence, or assists another in doing so.
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd. (a).) A
plaintiff can show a “wrongful use” under the statute by alleging that the
“person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be
harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Id., subd. (b).)
 
In the TAC, Plaintiff realleges that he
was over the age of 65 at all relevant times, and that “Defendants
improperly took, hid, appropriated, obtained and retained money and other
property from the Plaintiff for a wrongful use, with the intent to defraud and
by undue influence over Plaintiff.” (TAC ¶¶ 60–62.) Plaintiff further realleges that “Defendants
knew or should have known that their wrongful actions and omissions, as alleged
herein, were likely to be harmful to Plaintiff,” and did cause Plaintiff harm.
(Id. at ¶¶ 63–64.) 
 
In sustaining the previous demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC, the
Court found that “Plaintiff has not alleged any ownership interest in the
Galloway property, and therefore cannot allege that Moving Defendants
wrongfully took that property from him.” (7/26/23 Min. Order, p. 2.) In
amending his SAC, Plaintiff now alleges that “while Plaintiff was under
contract to purchase the Galloway Property, he had a beneficial ownership
interest in that property.” (Id. at ¶ 29, citing Roman Rogers
Development Co. v. Southern California Real Estate Inv. Co. (1911) 159 Cal.
735, 739.)
 
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not alleged any “wrongful use” because “he fails to allege that the denial
of an extension to clear a financing contingency was wrongful or that the
subsequent cancellation of the contract was wrongful. In fact, Plaintiff does
not allege any contractual or statutory basis that mandated CAG and/or Lennar
to provide him with an extension so he could have hypothetically obtained the
requisite financing.” (Dem. 11:20–24.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that he has alleged Moving Defendants’ “greedy, wrongful, unreasonable, and bad
faith conduct” through his allegations that Moving Defendants failed to
disclose their conflict of interest with Opendoor, their “lowball” offer to
purchase Plaintiff’s home, and their refusal to grant Plaintiff an extension to
clear the financing contingency. (Pl.’s Opp. 13:2, citing TAC ¶¶ 15, 26, 31.)
 
Moving Defendants argue in reply
that “Plaintiff again fails to explain how CAG and Lennar’s enforcement of
their contractual rights was wrongful.” (Defs.’ Reply 4:18–19.) Moving
Defendants further argue that “Plaintiff unabashedly claims an ownership
interest in the Galloway Property based upon the same contract which he
willfully breached.” (Id. at 4:25–27.)
 
The Court finds that on the face of
the TAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an ownership interest in the
Galloway property, and Defendants’ wrongful conduct in refusing to grant
Plaintiff an extension to obtain financing for the property. Moving Defendants’
arguments that their conduct was not “wrongful” are not suitable for resolution
at the demurrer stage. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has sufficiently cured the pleading defects in his previous complaint and has
sufficiently alleged facts to constitute a cause of action for Financial Elder
Abuse. Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause
of action.
 
2.     
Violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200 et seq. 
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action alleges
that Defendants violated Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.
(the “UCL”). To set forth a claim for unfair business practices in violation of
the UCL, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was engaged in an
“unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive,
untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17200.)
 
“In essence, an action based on Business
and Professions Code section 17200 to redress an unlawful business practice ‘borrows’
violations of other laws and treats these violations, when committed pursuant
to business activity, as unlawful practices independently actionable under
section 17200 et seq. and subject to the distinct remedies provided
thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co.
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business
practice under the UCL must show that the defendant's conduct is “tethered to
an underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision, or that it
threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law or violates the policy or
spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the statute, does not refer to
the common law tort of fraud but only requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen
v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)
 
Here, the Court previously found that
Plaintiff’s UCL cause of action failed to the extent that it derived from his
defective Elder Abuse Act cause of action. (7/26/23 Min. Order, p. 3.) Here, as
the Court finds that Plaintiff has successfully amended his complaint to allege
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Financial Elder Abuse in
violation of the Elder Abuse Act, the Court respectively finds
that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a violation of law to constitute an
“unlawful” and “unfair” business practice in violation of the UCL. Accordingly,
the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is overruled.
 

Uncertainty 

 
Moving Defendants again argue that the
third and fourth causes of action in the TAC are uncertain pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). In applying the stringent
standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that the TAC is
not “so incomprehensible” that Moving Defendants cannot respond, especially
given the extensive analyses they have offered in attacking the pleading.
Accordingly, the demurrer is again overruled on this ground. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Moving Defendants move to strike the
portions of the TAC pertaining to attorney fees and punitive damages.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
As set forth above, although the
parties dispute whether Moving Defendants’ counsel has satisfied the meet and
confer requirement, “a determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to
strike.” (Id. at subd. (a)(4).)
 
B.    
Attorney Fees
 
An award of attorney fees is proper
when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd.
(b); 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Here, Plaintiff alleges that he is entitled to
recover attorney fees under the Galloway agreement and the Private Attorney
General Doctrine. (TAC ¶¶
57, 70, p. 16, l. 10.)
 
However, the Court notes that it
has previously found that Plaintiff cannot recover attorney fees under the purchase
agreement for the Galloway property. (1/9/23 Minute Order p. 10.) The Court also previously
found that “without any further allegations as to which ‘important rights
affecting the public interest’ are implicated by Moving Defendants’ conduct,
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 is inapplicable to this action” under the
Private Attorney General Doctrine. (1/9/23 Minute Order p. 10.)
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff argues that
he is entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees and costs under the Elder
Abuse Act. (Pl.’s MTS Opp. 12:9–16.) The Court notes that Plaintiff
has not alleged any recovery of attorney fees stemming from his Financial Elder
Abuse cause of action. In any event, the instant motion to strike does not seek
to strike any such references to attorney fees related to Plaintiff’s third
cause of action, but in connection with Plaintiff’s second and fourth causes of
action. (Defs.’ MTS Reply, 4:14–18.)
 
Accordingly, the Court again finds
that Plaintiff is not entitled to the recovery of attorney fees by either of
the contracts or statutes as pled, and therefore Moving Defendants’ motion to
strike paragraphs 57 and 70 of Plaintiff’s TAC is granted without leave to
amend. The Court denies the motion to strike page 16, line 10 of the TAC to the
extent that it relates to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.
 
C.   
Punitive Damages
 
Plaintiff
prays for punitive damages under his third cause of action for Financial Elder
Abuse. (TAC ¶ 66.) Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “victimized an innocent and vulnerable Elder and
sought to deprive him of his existing home and his hoped-for new home. Such
acts were oppressive, malicious, and fraudulent, and Plaintiff is accordingly
entitled to receive punitive damages in an amount sufficient to punish
Defendants and deter them and others from similar wrongful acts in the future.”
(Ibid.)
 
Moving Defendants argue that “all
of Plaintiff’s allegations for punitive damages amount to nothing more than
mere conclusory statements and/or recitations of the language of Civil Code
section 3294. The TAC fails to provide any specific factual allegations to
support the imposition of punitive damages, instead choosing to repeat the same
conclusory statements from the SAC (with some superfluous modifications) which
this Court, in its Ruling, already deemed insufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages.” (MTS 9:17–22.)
 
The Court disagrees, finding
that, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s factual allegations relating to this
third cause of action, as pled, are sufficient to constitute “malice, fraud, or
oppression” so as to warrant a prayer for punitive damages. Accordingly, the
motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is denied.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The demurrer is overruled. The motion to strike paragraphs
57 and 70 from Plaintiff’s TAC is granted without leave to amend, and denied as
to the remainder. Moving Defendants to file their Answer to Plaintiff’s TAC
within 30 days.