  Case Number:  23AHCV02200    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
21, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ZHOIE PEREZ v.
OFFICER ZAMORA, OFFICER SANDOVAL, OFFICER CARRILLO, OFFICER GUTIERREZ, CITY OF
SOUTH PASADENA.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02200
 
            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of South Pasadena
(“the City”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 12, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             The City moves to quash subpoenas
seeking personnel records of peace officers.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Zhoie
Perez’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that she was harassed by South Pasadena police officers.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on September 21, 2023, alleging six causes of
action for (1) assault and battery, (2) negligence, (3) violations of the Ralph
Civil Rights Act, Civil Code section 51.7, (4) violations of the Bane Civil
Rights Act, Civil code section 52.1, (5) violation of the Unruh Act, Civil Code
section 51, 52, and (6) false imprisonment. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
            The City’s motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena served on
November 28, 2023, is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The City moves to quash subpoenas seeking personnel records of peace
officers. The City provides that Plaintiff served subpoenas on November 28,
2023. (Valencia Decl. ¶ 2.) In
the subpoena Plaintiff sought, among other things, “disciplinary records” for
the individual officer defendants. 
 
            Penal Code section 832.7,
subdivision (a), provides that: “[T]he personnel records of peace officers and
custodial officers and records maintained by a state or local agency pursuant
to Section 832.5, or information obtained from these records,
are confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or civil proceeding
except by discovery pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code.”
 
“Evidence Code section 1043, subdivision (a) reads in
part: ‘In any case in which discovery or disclosure is
sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records ..., the party seeking
the discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate
court or administrative body....’ (Italics added.) The
expansive language of Evidence Code section 1043,
subdivision (a) does two things. First, it makes clear that Pitchess
motions may be brought in both civil and criminal cases.” (Riverside
County Sheriff’s Dept. v. Stiglitz (2014) 60 Cal.4th 624, 631.) 
 
            Evidence Code section 1043, subdivision (b),
provides: “The
motion shall include all of the following: [¶] (1) Identification of the proceeding in which
discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure,
the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental
agency that has custody and control of the
records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure
shall be heard. [¶] (2) A
description of the type of records or information sought. [¶] (3) Affidavits showing good
cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality
thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating
upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records
or information from the records.” 
 
            The applicable statutes and case law clearly provide that the
Plaintiff’s attempt to obtain the personnel records of the officers named in
this present case is governed by specific procedures. However, Plaintiff has
not made the applicable motion to obtain the relevant discovery. Further, the
City provides that the request reports and records related to the incident have
been provided to Plaintiff. (Motion at p. 6:16-17.) Plaintiff’s subpoena
improperly seeks to obtain personnel records of peace officers without a Pitchess
motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The City’s motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena served on
November 28, 2023, is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   February 21,
2024                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



