 Case Number:  BC708510    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  73 12/19/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
STAR HELICOPTERS, LLC, et al. v. FLEET
UNLIMITED, INC., et al. (BC708510)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Greg
Garbacz (Klinedinst PC)
Counsel
for Defendants/moving party:  Guy Jamison
(Jamison Law Firm, PC)
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 11/06/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
June 4, 2018, Plaintiffs tar Helicopters LLC
(“Star”) and 2010 Leasing Group LLC (“2010 Leasing”) filed this action
against Defendants Fleet Unlimited, Inc. (“Fleet”),
Dan Wolfe (“Dan”), and Wolfe Air Aviation, Ltd. (“Wolfe Air”).
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached
partnership agreements relating to the respective ownership and for-profit use
of an A-Star Helicopter, 1990 Eurocopter model (AS350BA). 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following causes of action:
 
C/A 1: By
Plaintiff 2010 Leasing against Defendant Fleet for Breach of Agreement to
Sell Helicopter (p. 9) 
 
C/A 2: By
Plaintiff 2010 Leasing against Defendant Fleet for Specific Performance
(p.11) 
 
C/A 3: By
Plaintiffs against Defendant Fleet and Wolfe Air Aviation for Breach of
Partnership Agreement (p. 12) 
 
C/A 4: By
Plaintiff Star against Defendant Fleet for Breach of Fiduciary Duty (p.13) 
 
C/A 5: By
Plaintiffs against Defendants Fleet and Dan Wolfe for Fraud (p. 14) 
 
C/A 6: By
Plaintiffs against Defendant Fleet for Accounting (p. 16) 
 
C/A 7: By
Plaintiffs against Defendants Fleet and Wolfe Air Aviation for Conversion (p.
17) 
 
On December
11, 2019, Cross-Complainants Fleet and Wolfe Aire filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Star and 2010 Leasing. 
 
On November 6, 2024, Defendants Fleet
Unlimited, Inc., Dan Wolfe, and Wolfe Air Aviation, Ltd. filed the
instant MSA, arguing:
·       Defendants
move for an order
granting summary adjudication in their favor and against Plaintiffs Star
Helicopters, LLC and 2010 Leasing Group, LLC’s (“Plaintiffs”) as to the issue
of whether a legal partnership existed between Plaintiffs and Defendants.
·       Defendants contend that this issue is
determinative of other issues in this case, and on those grounds, Defendants
will move under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473c, for an
order granting summary adjudication in their favor and against Plaintiffs on
Plaintiffs’ unsupported causes of action for Breach of Partnership Agreement,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Accounting, and Conversion. 
·       Plaintiffs and Fleet are not Partners.
Instead, they are co-owners of an asset—the helicopter, 6WA, which they used in
their respective, separate for-profit businesses. Plaintiffs and Fleet never
entered into a partnership agreement, nor did they operate a joint business or
enterprise for profit or otherwise.
·       The absence of a Legal Partnership is
fatal to the Plaintiffs’ related and dependent claims.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
·       Procedural deficiencies with
Defendants’ motion
o   This Motion is Late and Lacks Proper
Notice.
§  The motion had to have been filed by
October 4, 2024. But the motion was defectively filed by Defendants and rejected by the Court
§  Trial began
on 10/28/22 and therefore the MSA is procedurally improper pursuant to C.C.P. §437c(a(2).
o   This Motion is a Disguised Motion for
Reconsideration.
§  The trial court previously heard
Defendants arguments that the existence of a partnership should be bifurcated
and determined as a matter of law over a year ago. That motion was denied
because too many factual issues existed and the motion was procedurally flawed.
§  Here, Plaintiffs are seeking summary
adjudication of the same issue and claim -- asking the court to consider the
existence of the partnership as a matter of law before the jury trial begins.
The order they are seeking is the same.
·       Defendants Are Estopped From Denying A
Partnership
o   Here, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint and amended cross-complaint stating that a partnership was
formed and existed. (See Cross-Complaint at ¿¿23-32;
First Amended Cross Complaint at ¿22.
·       Material Disputes Of Fact Prevent
Summary Adjudication Of All Of The Issues.
 
Defendants filed
a reply, arguing:
·       The Motion for Summary Adjudication is
not a disguised Motion for Reconsideration.
o   Each is its own distinct motion
brought under different statutory provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.
While Defendants' Motion to Bifurcate may have argued that the issue of
existence of the partnership should be tried and determined first, as a matter
of law, the Motion for Summary Adjudication, on the other hand, argues that no
genuine issue of material fact exists and that summary adjudication of the
issue of whether a partnership existed as between the parties should be
summarily adjudicated in Defendants' favor.
·       The Motion for Summary Adjudication
was timely Noticed
o   Plaintiffs were indeed served with all
pleading papers on Friday, October 4, 2024 at 1:29 PM.
o   Defendants' counsel discovered that
although all supporting moving papers were filed on October 4, 2024, the date
that all moving papers were successfully served on Plaintiffs, the document
titled Notice of Motion; Motion for Summary Adjudication; and Memorandum of
Points & Authorities was rejected by the Clerk and not filed due to Defendants'
counsel's inadvertent error in uploading the document. Defendants' counsel did
indeed file the correct document on the same date he discovered his inadvertent
error. 
o   Plaintiff cannot claim prejudice.
·       Defendants are Not Estopped from
Denying the Existence of a Partnership
o   The Cross-Complaint does not state
that the Parties were partners as a matter of undisputed fact or law. The
Parties may have referred to themselves as partners or instituted this Action
thinking that they were in a partnership, but that does not mean that they were
in a legal partnership under California law. The law clearly recognizes the
Parties as mere tenants-in-common, or co-owners of a jointly held asset.
·       Plaintiffs cannot show that a legal
partnership existed between the Parties. And where no legal partnership exists
between the Parties, Defendants cannot be held liable for breach of any
partnership agreement nor for any breach of alleged fiduciary duty, among other
things.
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.  In determining if the papers show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.  But… the defendant must indeed present
evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all that
the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot
prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify
the issues framed by the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether
the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s
claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion
prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to determine
whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative
value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe
the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of
granting the motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues
of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.     
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take
judicial notice of the following: (1) Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ (original)
cross-complaint filed on December 3, 2018; (2) Defendants/Cross-Complainants’
amended cross-complaint filed on December 11, 2019; (3)
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Motion to Bifurcate filed on November 1, 2023;
(4) The minute order denying Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Motion to Bifurcate
filed on December 5, 2023; and (5) Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine No. 5 filed on
November 20, 2023.
 
The
court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court
may take judicial notice of its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice.
 
C.     
Allegations in the Complaint
 
On March 1,
2016, Plaintiff Star purchased a 1/3 share in a helicopter for $200,000. 
Defendant Fleet owned the remaining 2/3 share.  On March 3, 2016,
Plaintiff Star and Defendants Fleet and Wolfe Air Aviation entered into a
written agreement for co-ownership of the Helicopter.  (Compl., ¶ 13, Ex.
1.)  Per the co-ownership agreement, Star and Fleet maintained a joint
checking account to pay for fixed and ongoing expenses.  The agreement
provided that “DBA ‘Six Whisky Alpha’” would manage the helicopter’s operating
expenses.  Defendant Fleet controlled 2/3 interest and Plaintiff Star
controlled 1/3 interest in DBA Six Whiskey Alpha.  In practice, the
expenses were managed by Defendant Fleet’s employee with little or no input
from Star.  Defendant Fleet assumed fiduciary duties as a partner to
properly manage and account for the funds, expenses, and use of the jointly
owned helicopter. 
 
On September
25, 2017, Plaintiff 2010 Leasing purchased from Star its 1/3 ownership share of
the helicopter.  Defendant Fleet was notified of this purchase and
registered the ownership with the FAA, thereby forming a partnership between
Fleet and 2010 Leasing.  Both used or intended to use the helicopter for
commercial, for-profit purposes, and both companies had the ability to and did
participate in profits and losses and in the management and control of the
operation of the helicopter.  Plaintiff Star provides Plaintiff 2010
Leasing with the operations and management of the 1/3 share of the
helicopter.  In September 2017, Star obtained the FAA 135 Certification,
which requires that Star maintain “Operational Control” of the helicopter and
knowledge over all flights involving the helicopter.  Plaintiff 2010
Leasing proposed a new agreement for co-ownership of the helicopter to account
for shortcomings in the 2016 agreement and to accommodate requirements of the
135 Certification.  Defendant Fleet refused to enter a new
agreement.  Fleet’s president, Dan Wolfe, insisted and acted as if the
2016 agreement and its terms continued to control the partnership between 2010
Leasing and Fleet.   
 
On January
20, 2018, Dan stated in an email that most of the new proposed agreement looked
fine and indicated his intention to end the partnership, standing “[i]t is
clear to me that we should be engineering a partnership buy-out of some
sort.”  Plaintiffs understood that Dan would be terminating the
partnership, which would require the sale of the helicopter to a third party if
the parties could not agree to buy the other out.  As a result of Dan’s
proposal to work out a buy-out relative to the end of the partnership,
Plaintiffs took steps to remove the helicopter from the 135 Certificate, which
effectively meant they could not operate the helicopter or use it.  The
manager of 2010 Leasing, Peter Starflinger, informed Dan that the helicopter
should not be used until the partnership disagreements were resolved because
the unilateral operation of the helicopter reduced its value, endangered the
asset, and imposed on Plaintiffs risks and/or possible liabilities that were
unreasonable.  Helicopters have a finite safe-and-useful lifespan. 
Each hour of flight diminishes that lifespan.  Defendant Fleet and Dan
continued, and continue to, fly the helicopter against 2010 Leasing’s numerous
objections.   Defendant Fleet never provided any reports to
Plaintiffs regarding the helicopter use, which prevented Plaintiff Star from
maintaining Operational Control of the helicopter as required for its FAA
Certification.   
 
On February
5, 2018, Dan emailed Starflinger stating the helicopter’s appraised value was
$490,000.  Plaintiffs found the appraisal to be artificially low and/or
inaccurate.   
 
On March 19,
2018, Defendant’s employee (Ginger Umutayn) sent Plaintiffs an invoice in the
amount of $12,236.47 for “current maintenance/annual bill.”  Starflinger
requested an accounting of the joint checking account and of the related use
and maintenance records.  Umutayn refused.  Plaintiffs reviewed the
financial documents that Fleet and Dan had previously provided and found
unauthorized diversions from the partnership account without Plaintiffs’’
consent.  Although Plaintiffs requested information and more
documentation, none has been provided.   
 
On April 1,
2018, Defendant Dan emailed Starflinger and Keith Harter (managing member of
Star) that he was willing to purchase 2010 Leasing’s 1/3 interest for a
specific value.  In the same email, Dan affirmed that he would sell
Defendant’s 2/3 interest for the same value.  Later that month, Star
obtained a fair market appraisal of the helicopter of $572,000.  Although
Plaintiffs proposed listing the helicopter for sale and keeping it on the
ground, Fleet refused and continued to use the helicopter and diminish its
value.   
 
By mid-May
2018, Plaintiffs reviewed the helicopter records and found that the accounts
were short at least $50,000 - $60,000.   
 
On May 15,
2018, Starflinger emailed Dan and asked him for a dollar amount.  Dan
responded that Fleet would purchase the 1/3 of $490,000 (i.e., $163,334), but
was also willing to sell the 2/3 interest for 2/3 of $490,000.  On May 18,
2018, Starflinger accepted the offer to purchase Fleet’s 2/3 interest for
$326,666 and that he would have the check ready for Dan on Monday and put it in
escrow.  Notwithstanding, Fleet refused to complete the sale. 
Defendants continue to use the helicopter and diminish its value.  
  
Plaintiffs
seek the following relief: economic damages, non-economic damages, specific
performance of the purchase contract, statutory attorney fees and costs,
punitive damages, post-judgment legal interest, and other relief deemed
appropriate or equitable. 
 
D.    
Procedural Defect
 
As
an initial matter, Plaintiffs argues Defendants’ Motion must be denied because it
was not timely filed.
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 437(c) provides: “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing… The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.  The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.”
 
Here,
trial in this matter is scheduled for January 21, 2025. The parties do not appear
to dispute that based on that trial date, Defendants were required to have
served and filed the Motion by October 4, 2024. While the Motion was properly
served on Plaintiffs on October 4, 2024, the Motion was not filed until November
6, 2024. 
 
The Court finds that Defendants’ Motion was not timely filed in accordance with the notice period for a motion for summary judgment under CCP § 437c(a)(2). The court may not shorten the 75-day notice period without the parties' consent. CCP § 437c(a) gives the court power to shorten time on other summary judgment time requirements, but not on the 75-day notice of hearing. (McMahon v. Sup.Ct. (American Equity Ins. Co.) (2003) 106 CA4th 112, 116; Urshan v. Musicians' Credit Union (2004) 120 CA4th 758, 763.)
 
Defendants
assert that the Motion was not timely filed due to Defendants' counsel's
inadvertent error in uploading the document. (Jamison
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The
discretionary relief provisions of section 473, subdivision (b) provide in
pertinent part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” 
 
As to discretionary relief,
“[a]lthough a trial court has discretion to vacate the entry of a default or
subsequent judgment, this discretion may be exercised only after the party
seeking relief has shown that there is a proper ground for relief, and that the
party has raised that ground in a procedurally proper manner, within any
applicable time limits.” (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) Thus, a party requesting relief under C.C.P. §473
must do so in a procedurally proper manner and requires a noticed motion.
(C.C.P. §473(b).) Since Defendants have not applied for relief under section
473 in a procedurally proper manner, the Court is not inclined to grant relief
as to Defendants’ late filing at this time. 
 
Based on the foregoing procedural deficiency, Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.