  Case Number:  20STCV34429    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  73 12/19/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND RESCUE LEAGUE,
INC., et al. v. GINOR, et al. (20STCV34229)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Bryan Pease
(Pease Law, APC); David Tenenbaum (Law Offices of G. David Tenenbaum); John
Maher (Law Offices of John Maher)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Michael
Tenenbaum (The Office of Michael Tenenbaum); Thomas Rickeman (Brown Neri Smith
& Khan LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’s Motion FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed 11/21/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September
4, 2020, Plaintiffs Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“APRL”), and
Dina Kourda (“Kourda”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint.  The
operative pleading is the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which alleges causes
of action for (1) Consumer Legal Remedies Act, (2) unfair business practices,
and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants Michael Ginor, Izzy Yanay, HVFG
LLC, D’Artagnan, Inc., D’Artagnan, LLC, Ariane Daguin, Andy Wertheim, Bella
Bella Gourmet Foods LLC, La Belle Farm, Inc., Herman Lee, French Laundry
Partners, L.P., Thomas Keller, Michael’s Gourmet Pantry, Inc.,  MGP
Specialty Foods, J. Michael Stamm, and Cathy Stamm, Tyler Charman, Brian
Redzikowski, Matthew Spencer, Kettner House LP, SDCM Inc., and Petrossian, Inc. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed the instant lawsuit to enjoin the sale of foie gras, i.e., fattened duck
liver, which is obtained from forced fed duck and geese, and which violates
Health & Safety Code section 25982.  Plaintiffs also seek to enjoin
false and misleading statements made by Defendants regarding the foie
gras.  
 
On September 6, 2024, Defendants D’Artagnan,
Inc., D’Artagnan, LLC, Ariane Daguin and Andy Wertheim
(“D’Artagnan
Defendants”) were dismissed without
prejudice. 
 
On November
21, 2024, Plaintiff APRL filed a Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, arguing: 
·       The false advertising claims
challenged in the complaint have been removed from D’Artagnan’s website, and
D’Artagnan has stopped selling and shipping foie gras from force fed birds to
California customers, including stating on their website that this is due to
the sale ban. (Declaration of Attorney Bryan Pease (“Pease Decl.”), Ex. 10.)
·       Accordingly, injunctive relief is moot
and Plaintiff dismissed D’Artagnan Defendants from the case. Plaintiff now
seeks to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in obtaining this result,
pursuant to CCP §1021.5.
·       Plaintiff asserts Defendants were
violating the Force Fed Birds Ban. Plaintiff properly sought injunctive relief
under the Unfair Competition Law (UCL). Plaintiff has standing under the UCL
since “injury in fact” is demonstrated by showing that a defendant’s illegal
activity has thwarted the organization’s core mission, or has caused it to
expend resources it otherwise would not have expended in order to combat the
activity. 
·       Plaintiff
obtained the relief it was seeking through Defendants complying with the law
voluntarily as a result of the lawsuit. 
·       Under CCP
§1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees if
four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2) its lawsuit has
enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3) a significant
benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons;
and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement are such as
to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
·       Plaintiff asserts it has met these criteria and
the fees sought are reasonable. Plaintiff seeks fees totaling $276,565.00.
 
In opposition, the D’Artagnan Defendants
argue that:
·       APRL voluntarily dismissed the
D’Artagnan Defendants from this action. (See Req. for Dismissal filed
9/5/2024.) As a result, the D’Artagnan Defendants are prevailing parties in
this case.
·       APRL’s lawsuit was not a catalyst for
D’Artagnan’s decision to stop shipping foie gras products to California and to
revise its website.
·       Instead, discontinuing its remote
sales of foie gras products to California and removing various language from
its website were basic business decisions based on: (1) D’Artagnan’s physical
entry into the California market with an in-state salesperson and logistics
system for orders from California customers (see attached Wagner Declaration),
i.e., which led it to avoid any potential risk of prosecution under
California’s law banning the sale of certain foie gras products within the
state; and (2) D’Artagnan’s performance of the terms of a settlement agreement
it entered into with a different plaintiff in 2022 to resolve a separate
lawsuit in the District of Columbia that was filed even before APRL commenced this one (see Ex. A to
Daguin Declaration).
·       The
D’Artagnan Defendants are Prevailing Parties under Section 1032.
o   Section 1032
of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that the D’Artagnan Defendants are the
prevailing parties for purposes of costs, which includes attorney’s fees when
provided for by statute. Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1033.5(a)(10)(B). Specifically,
section 1032(a)(4) provides that “a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is
entered,” as well as a defendant “where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains
any relief,” is the “prevailing party.” Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1032(a)(4).
·       APRL is Not
Entitled to Fees or Costs Under Section 1021.5.
o   Here, APRL
was not a successful party; it did not enforce any important right affecting
the public interest; no benefit has been conferred on the general public or a
large class of persons; and there was no need for private enforcement because the
D’Artagnan Defendants’ alleged business practices have already been found to be
lawful by the U.S. District Court and the Ninth Circuit in a case thoroughly
litigated (and lost) by the California Attorney General.
In reply, Plaintiff argues that:
·       Defendants argue a federal declaratory
judgment in another case provides that a sale does not occur in California in violation
of Health & Safety Code §25982, “if conducted remotely from outside the
state (e.g., online or by telephone).” (Oppo. at 4:7-8.) However, the federal
case actually gives a lengthy list of criteria that must be met and does not
give carte blanche to sell “online or by telephone.” The Declaration of Jason
Wagner does not specify that each of these criteria was met in the online sales
Defendants were engaged in. Thus, even if the federal ruling is correct as to
California law—which Plaintiff disputes—Defendants have not shown their sales
activities complied.
·       Plaintiff maintains it is entitled to
an award of reasonable attorney fees under CCP §1021.5.
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
CCP §§ 1032 and 1033.5 provide that a prevailing party may
recover its costs as a matter of right, and that those costs may include
attorneys’ fees when authorized by statute or contract. 
 
Section 1021.5 provides the “explicit statutory authority for
court-awarded attorney fees under a private attorney general theory” where the
lawsuit “has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest regardless of its source – constitutional, statutory or other.”
(Woodland Hills Residents Assn., Inc. v. City Council, (1979) 23 Cal.3d
917, 925, quoting Cal. Code Civ. P. 1021.5 (internal quotations and emphasis
omitted). Under
CCP §1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees if
four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2) its lawsuit has
enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3) a significant
benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons;
and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement are such as
to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
A.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff APRL
moves for attorneys’ fees under CCP §1021.5.
 
Section 1021.5 provides the “explicit statutory authority for
court-awarded attorney fees under a private attorney general theory” where the
lawsuit “has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest regardless of its source – constitutional, statutory or other.”
(Woodland Hills Residents Assn., Inc. v. City Council, (1979) 23 Cal.3d
917, 925, quoting Cal. Code Civ. P. 1021.5 (internal quotations and emphasis
omitted).) Under CCP §1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable
attorney fees if four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2)
its lawsuit has enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3)
a significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class
of persons; and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement
are such as to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
 
The moving party bears the burden of establishing each
prerequisite to an award of attorney’s fees under section 1021.5. (Ebbetts
Pass Forest Watch v. California Dept. of Forestry and Fire Protection
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 376, 381.) If any one of the elements required for an
award under section 1021.5 is absent, that alone will suffice to deny a fee
request. (Satrap v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th
72, 81.) The decision to award fees lies within the trial court's discretion
and will not be disturbed on appeal absent a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (Baggett
v. Gates (1982) 32 Cal.3d 128, 142-43.)
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff is
entitled to attorneys’ fees because it has not established that it was the
“successful party.” 
 
A plaintiff
is a “successful party” entitled to a catalyst fee award if “(1) the lawsuit
was a catalyst motivating the defendants to provide the primary relief sought;
(2) that the lawsuit had merit and achieved its catalytic effect by threat of
victory, not by dint of nuisance and threat of expense . . . and, (3) that the
plaintiffs reasonably attempted to settle the litigation prior to filing the
lawsuit.” (Tipton Whittingham v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 34 Cal. 4th
604, 608.)
 
To meet the catalyst requirement, a plaintiff
need not show that litigation was the sole cause of the defendant’s
acquiescence, only that it was a substantial factor contributing to the
defendant’s action. (Hogar Dulce Hogar v. Cmty. Dev. Com. of the City
of Escondido, (“Hogar”) (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1365.) When a
defendant has voluntarily provided the relief a plaintiff is seeking, “the
chronology of events may raise an inference that the litigation was the
catalyst for the relief.” (Id. at 1366.) “The appropriate
benchmarks in determining which party prevailed are (a) the situation
immediately prior to the commencement of suit, (b) the situation today, and the
role, if any, played by the litigation in effecting any changes between the
two.” (Id.) Where a plaintiff shows that a defendant’s voluntary changes
occurred in the course of litigation, courts often infer the catalytic
effect. (Id. at 1366-67.)   
 
Here, Plaintiff relies on the chronology of events to give an
inference that the litigation was the catalyst for relief. In its
Motion, Plaintiff sets forth the following chronology of events. On July 20,
2020, Plaintiff sent cease and desist letters to Defendants warning them suit
would be filed if they continued illegally selling foie gras in California,
including to restaurants for resale. (Pease Decl., Exhs. 15-17.) Defendants did
not stop their illegal sales, so Plaintiff ultimately filed suit on September
4, 2020. Plaintiffs filed the instant lawsuit to
enjoin the sale of foie gras and to enjoin false and misleading statements made
by Defendants regarding the foie gras. In August 2022, Plaintiff saw
that the false advertising claims had been edited and removed from the
D’Artagnan website and sought confirmation from Defendants that they did not
seek to re-add these claims. Defendants confirmed. (Pease Decl., Ex. 14.)
However, documents produced in discovery showed Defendants continued selling
foie gras to California restaurants at least as late as March 2023. (Pease
Decl., Ex. 4.) Plaintiff subsequently learned in June 2023 from monitoring
Defendants’ website that as of this time, Defendants stopped offering foie gras
for sale to California customers, including a statement that such sales are
prohibited by law. In November 2023, Plaintiff took the deposition of Mr.
Wertheim, who testified there was no particular reason D’Artagnan decided to
resume or stop sales to California at various times, and they were simply
following the law and advice of counsel at all times. (Pease Decl., Ex. 3.)
Defendants never told Plaintiff they had stopped offering foie gras for sale to
California and never asked to have this case dismissed on mootness grounds. On
September 5, 2024, finally confident this was a permanent change, Plaintiff
filed and served a request for dismissal of D’Artagnan Defendants. (Motion, p.
7.)
 
Further, a
plaintiff relying on the catalyst theory to be a successful party must
reasonably attempt to settle the litigation prior to filing suit. Here, Plaintiff
asserts it reasonably attempted to settle the litigation prior to filing the
lawsuit because on July 20, 2020, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a cease and desist
letter to D’Artagnan. (Pease Decl., Ex. 15, 17.) An automated response showed
the message was delivered. (Pease Decl., Ex. 16.)
 
However, the
Court does not find Plaintiff’s single cease and desist letter as a reasonable
attempt to settle the litigation. As Defendants argue, there is no indication
that anyone with decision-making authority ever received this letter — let
alone that D’Artagnan, LLC, D’Artagnan, Inc., Andy Wertheim, and Ariane Daguin
all received it. (Oppos., p. 9.) Plaintiff had sent its cease and desist letter
to a generic D’Artagnan email address (wholesale@dartagnan.com) that is
intended for customers to submit wholesale orders — and not an address for
feedback or messages for D’Artagnan leadership. (Oppos., p. 9; Pease Decl., Ex.
17.) Thus, Plaintiff received an automated response to its email within one
minute, stating “Thank you for placing your order with D'Artagnan.” (Id.,
Ex. 16.) The letter also demanded D’Artagnan, LLC, make a material change to
its business practice, ceasing to sell foie gras in California, by the close of business
two days later. (Pease Decl., Ex. 17.) Defendants argue Plaintiff did not give
Defendants an opportunity to meet its demands within a reasonable time. Moreover,
there is no indication that Plaintiff attempted to follow up or communicate with
a decisionmaker at D’Artagnan. (Oppos., p. 9.) While Plaintiff contends that
counsel for other Defendants who ultimately represented D’Artagnan wrote back
to Plaintiff, this is irrelevant as counsel wrote back only regarding the other
Defendants and do not mention D’Artagnan. (Pease Decl., Ex. 18.) Thus, there is
no indication that Plaintiff followed up with D’Artagnan, LLC, D’Artagnan,
Inc., Andy Wertheim, and Ariane Daguin. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the
Court does not find Plaintiff had reasonably attempted to settle the litigation
prior to filing suit. As the court in Carian v.
Department of Fish & Wildlife, (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 806, 816
stated, reasonably attempting to settle the litigation is not done simply by
notifying the defendant of the grievance and proposed remedies. The court
must consider all of the relevant circumstances in determining whether the
plaintiff made a reasonable attempt to settle the dispute before filing the
lawsuit.  (Id. at 816-17.)
 
Because the Court does not find that
Plaintiff is the “successful party,” that alone will suffice to deny a fee
request and the Court will not discuss the other elements of section 1021.5. (Satrap v.
Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 72, 81.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.