  Case Number:  20STCV34421    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        SHAILA    MANTRI, an individual; SUBHASH MANTRI, an individual,                                Plaintiffs,                                 vs. THOSE    CERTAIN UNDERWRITERS AT LLOYD’S, LONDON SUBSCRIBING TO POLICY NUMBER    HGB0140086; JOAHN SCHULTZ INSURANCE AGENCY, a business entity, form unknown;    JOAN ALLYN SCHULTZ, an individual; WASHINGTON & FINNEGAN, INC., a    California corporation; and DOES 1-100, inclusive,                                 Defendants.   Case No.: 20    STCV34421 DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed: 09/09/2020   [1st    Amended Complaint Filed: N/A] Trial    Date: 03/03/2025      Hearing date:              November 22, 2024 Moving Party:             Defendants  Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number  Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc. Responding  Party:      Plaintiffs  Subhash Mantri  Motion:                       Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses  to Form Interrogatories to Plaintiff Subhash Mantri, Set One; Request for  Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $431.50     Tentative Ruling: The  Court considered the moving papers and opposition, no reply has been filed. Defendants  Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number  Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further  Responses to Form Interrogatories to Plaintiff Subhash Mantri, Set One, is DENIED  as moot.     Background             Sheila  Mantri (Sheila) and Subhash Mantri (Subhash) (collectively, Plaintiffs)  (because of Plaintiffs’ shared last name, the Court refers to Plaintiffs  individually by their first names) filed this action on September 9, 2020  against defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To  Policy Number Hgb0140086 (Lloyd’s); Joan Allyn Schultz dba Joan Schultz  Insurance Agency (erroneously sued as two separate entities); and Washington  & Finnegan, Inc. (WF), alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of  Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;  (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5)  Professional Negligence; and (6) Fraud.             The  Complaint alleges the following: Plaintiffs’ home was burglarized on November  30, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs submitted a claim to their insurance  carrier, Lloyd’s. (Ibid.) Instead of investigating, adjusting, and  paying the claim in a timely an reasonable manner, Lloyd’s unreasonably and in  bad faith disputed the veracity and extent of the claim, ignored reliable  documents that support the claim, and has thus far paid Plaintiffs nothing. (Ibid.)  Further, Plaintiffs learned that their insurance broker for their insurance  policy, Joan Schultz Insurance Agency, negligently and fraudulently obtained  woefully inadequate insurance coverage for Plaintiffs’ personal property. (Id.,  at ¶ 2.) Schultz negligently and fraudulently represented to Plaintiffs that  they could only obtain personal property coverage with a limit of $300,000. (Ibid.)             On  December 13, 2023, Defendants Llyod’s and WF (Moving Defendants) filed the  instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories to Plaintiff  Subhash Mantri, Set One.             On  November 8, 2024, Plaintiff Subhash filed his Opposition.             No  reply has been filed.   Discussion Legal Standard             The  propounding party may bring motions to compel inspection or further responses  to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses  received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are  meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A  respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed  to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)  22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)             The  court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.300(d).) Motion to Compel Further Responses             At  issue with the instant Motion are Form Interrogatories (FROGs) Numbers 2.7, 12.4,  12.7, 50.1, 50.2 and 50.6. Each of these interrogatories request basic  information regarding Plaintiff and the underlying incident, including  Plaintiff’s educational history (FROG 2.7), information regarding anyone who  took photographs of the scene of the incident (FROG 12.4), information  regarding anyone who inspected the scene of the incident (FROG 12.7), information  regarding any underlying agreements alleged in the pleadings (FROG 50.1), any  breach of any agreements alleged in the pleadings (FROG 50.2), and, finally,  any ambiguity regarding any agreements alleged in the pleadings (FROG 50.4).  (Separate Statement ISO Defendants’ Motion to Compel (Separate Statement);  Separate Statement ISO Plaintiff’s Opposition (Opp. Separate Statement).)             Moving  Defendants argue that each of Plaintiff’s responses to the form interrogatories  are deficient. They contend that, Plaintiff’s response to FROG 2.7 was incomplete  because he only provided information about schooling he received in the United  States and withheld information about his schooling in India. (Separate  Statement, p. 2-3). Defendants also contend that Plaintiff’s response to FROG  12.4 was incomplete because he failed to address certain subparts of the  question. (Id. at p. 4.) Further, when asked about inspections of his  home, Plaintiff only identified “Law Enforcement” without providing any contact  information, as requested. (Id. at p. 6.) Finally, with regard to FROGS  50.1, 50.2, and 50.4, Plaintiff’s responses were incomplete and did not address  various subparts of the questions. (Id. at pp. 9, 11, 13.)             In  opposition, Plaintiff contends that Moving Defendants’ motion should be denied  because Moving Defendants failed to demonstrate that Plaintiff’s original  responses were inadequate. In addition, though, Plaintiff also argues that the  motion is mooted because, in the interim, he has served fully code compliant  further responses to the form interrogatories that address each of the claimed  deficiencies in the motion.             After  examining the relevant filings, including the Moving Defendants’ moving papers,  separate statement, and declaration, as well as Plaintiff’s opposition and  separate statement, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s further responses served  on Plaintiff’s own volition adequately address each of the claimed deficiencies  in Moving Defendants’ motion. For example, in Plaintiff’s further response to  FROG 2.7, Plaintiff provides his complete education history, including his  education in India. (Opp. Separate Statement, p. 3.) And in Plaintiff’s further  response to FROGs 12.4 and 12.7, Plaintiff addressed each of the subparts he  previously did not address, even though Plaintiff contends that Moving  Defendants already possessed such information. (Id., at pp. 4 – 6, 7 –  8.) Finally, with respect to FROGs 50.1, 50.2, and 50.4, Plaintiff provided  unambiguous and express answers to each of the subparts of the interrogatories,  despite also claiming that his original responses were compliant.  Accordingly, the  Court finds that Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form  Interrogatories to Plaintiff Subhash Mantri, Set One, is DENIED as moot. Request for Sanctions             As  stated previously, a Court must impose sanctions against a party who unsuccessfully  opposes a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories, unless it  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code  Civ Proc. § 2030.300(d).)             Here,  Moving Defendants request monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of  $431.50 for the cost of reasonable attorneys’ fees for making the instant  motion. However, as the Court denied Moving Defendants’ motion, sanctions are  not mandatory in this case. And the Court declines to exercise its discretion  to award sanctions against Plaintiff given that Moving Defendants’ failed to  sufficiently demonstrate the inadequacy of Plaintiff’s original responses. Further,  Plaintiff did not willfully violate any court order, and in, to the contrary, provided  further responses to the requests at issue without any prompting from this  Court. Accordingly, the imposition of any sanctions in this matter would solely  be for the punishment of Plaintiff. (See, e.g., Doppes v. Bentley Motors,  Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992, citing Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers  Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488, disapproved on another ground  (The trial court cannot impose sanctions for  misuse of the discovery process as a punishment.))   Conclusion             Accordingly,  the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form  Interrogatories to Plaintiff Subhash Mantri, Set One. And the Court DENIES  Defendants’ Request for Sanctions.               It  is so ordered.   Dated:    _______________________ MEL RED RECANA Judge of the  Superior CourtSuperior Court of
CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles 


 
SHAILA
  MANTRI, an individual; SUBHASH MANTRI, an individual,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
THOSE
  CERTAIN UNDERWRITERS AT LLOYD’S, LONDON SUBSCRIBING TO POLICY NUMBER
  HGB0140086; JOAHN SCHULTZ INSURANCE AGENCY, a business entity, form unknown;
  JOAN ALLYN SCHULTZ, an individual; WASHINGTON & FINNEGAN, INC., a
  California corporation; and DOES 1-100, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 20
  STCV34421
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 09/09/2020  
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: 03/03/2025


 Hearing date:              November 22, 2024Moving Party:             Defendants
Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number
Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc.Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Subhash Mantri Motion:                       Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set 1       Tentative Ruling: The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.Defendants Those Certain Underwriters At
Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number Hgb0140086 And Washington &
Finnegan, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set 1 is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The
motion is granted as to request 28 but denied as to requests 23 and 24.  Background            Sheila
Mantri (Sheila) and Subhash Mantri (Subhash) (collectively, Plaintiffs)
(because of Plaintiffs’ shared last name, the Court refers to Plaintiffs
individually by their first names) filed this action on September 9, 2020
against defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To
Policy Number Hgb0140086 (Lloyd’s); Joan Allyn Schultz dba Joan Schultz
Insurance Agency (erroneously sued as two separate entities); and Washington
& Finnegan, Inc. (WF), alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
(3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5)
Professional Negligence; and (6) Fraud.            The
Complaint alleges the following: Plaintiffs’ home was burglarized on November
30, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs submitted a claim to their insurance
carrier, Lloyd’s. (Ibid.) Instead of investigating, adjusting, and
paying the claim in a timely an reasonable manner, Lloyd’s unreasonably and in
bad faith disputed the veracity and extent of the claim, ignored reliable
documents that support the claim, and has thus far paid Plaintiffs nothing. (Ibid.)
Further, Plaintiffs learned that their insurance broker for their insurance
policy, Joan Schultz Insurance Agency, negligently and fraudulently obtained
woefully inadequate insurance coverage for Plaintiffs’ personal property. (Id.,
at ¶ 2.) Schultz negligently and fraudulently represented to Plaintiffs that
they could only obtain personal property coverage with a limit of $300,000. (Ibid.)            On
December 13, 2023, Defendants Llyod’s and WF (Moving Defendants) filed two
identical Motions to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents (RPDs), one pertaining to RPDs Set 2 served on Shaila Mantri, and the
second pertaining to RPDs Set 1 served on Subhash Mantri.            On
September 6, 2024, this Court heard the Parties’ arguments related to Moving
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPDs Set 2, as to Shail
Mantri. On October 25, 2024, this Court issued its revised ruling on Moving
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPDs Set 2, granting the
motion as to request 28 but denying the motion as to requests 23 and 24.            Now
before the Court is Moving Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
RPDs Set 1, as to Subhash Mantri.            On
November 8, 2024, Plaintiff Subhash filed his Opposition.            On
November 15, 2024, Moving Defendants filed their Reply. DiscussionLegal Standard            The
propounding party may bring motions to compel inspection or further responses
to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)            The
court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.300(d).)Analysis             At
issue with the instant Motion are RPDs, Set 1, Request Numbers 23, 24, and 28.
As both parties acknowledge and contend, these Requests are identical to the
Requests at issue in the Moving Defendants’ prior motion to compel as to RPDs
Set 2, which this Court previously heard and adjudicated. (Opposition, at p.
4:3 – 10; Reply, at p. 1:6 – 16.) As both parties acknowledge that there are no
new facts or issues ripe for the present motion, the Court adopts its ruling as
to Moving Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPDs Set 2, as to
Plaintiff Shail Mantri for the instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to
RPDs Set 1, as to Plaintiff Subhash Mantri. Conclusion            Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Moving Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production, Set 1. The motion is granted as to
request 28 but is denied as to requests 23 and 24.             It
is so ordered. Dated:  _______________________MEL RED RECANAJudge of the
Superior Court













































































   