 Case Number:  23STCV29774    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  73 12/06/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MENDEZ v. DINO’S BURGERS FAST FOOD,
INC., et al. (23STCV29774)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party: Eli Banayan (Bana Legal Group, PC)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Timothy R.
Casey (Law Offices of Timothy R. Casey)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES TO DEFENDANT DINO’S BURGERS FAST FOOD, INC.,
SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 07/15/24)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES TO DEFENDANT DINO’S BURGERS FAST FOOD,
INC., SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 07/15/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
(1)  
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 12.2
and 17.1 to Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
(2)   Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2
and 17 to Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Dino’s
Burgers Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff Diego Lopez Mendez filed this action against
Defendants Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.; Dino’s Main St, Inc.; Konstantinos
Pantazis and George Pantazis. 
 
On
January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the following causes of action:
 
C/A
1: Failure
To Provide Meal Periods
C/A
2: Failure
To Provide Rest Periods
C/A
3: Failure
To Pay All Wages Due Upon Termination: Waiting Time Penalties
C/A
4: Failure
To Pay All Wages Earned
C/A
5: Failure
To Pay Minimum Wage
C/A
6: Failure
To Issue Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
C/A
7: Failure
To Timely Produce Personnel File
C/A
8: Violations
Of California’s Unfair Competition Act
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was employed by Defendants as
a dishwasher from in or about 2017, until the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment on August 29, 2023. Plaintiff alleges multiple violations of
California’s Labor Code. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Motion to Compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and request for sanctions. No
opposition was filed. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Motion to Compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and request for sanctions. No
opposition was filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable
and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that a meet and confer
letter was sent to Plaintiff’s counsel on June 12, 2024, explaining why the
discovery responses were deficient and requesting further responses. (Banayan Decl.,
¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s
counsel also states another correspondence was sent on June 26, 2024 asking
Defense Counsel if Defendant was amenable to participating in an Informal
Discovery Conference to address the issues. (Id., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff did
not receive a response. (Id., ¶ 8.) The Court finds
that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) 
 
It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court
(1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence).) 
  
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Furthermore,
to the extent there is any doubt in whether these records should be
discoverable, California’s liberal approach to discovery provides that doubt
should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
 
C.      Form
Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 12.2 and 17.1.
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. provided improper, evasive and
incomplete answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 12.2 and 17.1.
The interrogatories at issue are as follows:
 
Form Interrogatory No. 4.1: “At the time of the INCIDENT, was there in effect any policy of
insurance through which you were or might be insured in any manner (for
example, primary, pro-rata, or excess liability coverage or medical expense
coverage) for the damages, claims, or actions that have arisen out of the
INCIDENT? If so, for each policy state: 
(a) The kind of coverage; 
(b) the name and ADDRESS of the insurance company; 
(c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each named insured;

(d) the policy number; 
(e) the limits of coverage for each type of coverage contained in
the policy; 
(f) whether
any reservation of rights or controversy or coverage dispute exists between you
and the insurance company; and 
(g) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the custodian of
the policy.”
 
Defendant’s Response to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1: “Plaintiffs has previously exhausted all demands for disability
insurance and gas been denied on Each occasion, in addition he has exhausted
all Workman’s Compensation claims which were found to be frivolous, See
responses to Request for Production of documents.”
 
Form Interrogatory No. 12.2: “Have YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF obtained a written or
recorded statement from any individual concerning the INCIDENT? If so, for each
statement state: 
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual
interviewed; 
(b) the date of the interview; and 
(c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who
conducted the interview.”
 
Defendant’s Response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.2: “Yes (a) Fernando Alvarez (Asked not to give his personal
information out) (b) Eddie Serrano (asked to keep his personal information
private) (c) Juan Mattas (asked to keep his personal information private)”
 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1: “Is your response to each request for admission served with
these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that
is not an unqualified admission: 
(a) state the number of the request;
(b) state all facts upon which you base your response; 
(c) state the
names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of
those facts; and 
(d) identify
all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or
thing.”
 
Defendant’s Response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1: “Plaintiff was and is a continuing alcoholic that case to work
intoxicated and brough beer onto The premises even after being told not to do
so. His conduct was observed by each of the employees, and he was Actually,
seen going into the parking lot with women and drinking with them in their
automobile even after being Confronted in the act by management. This conduct
never ceased”
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant must provide clear and specific
responses to the Plaintiff’s requests, including identifying individuals with
knowledge, producing relevant documents, and providing factual explanations.
 
Upon review of Defendant’s responses, the Court agrees. As to Form
Interrogatory No. 4.1, Defendant is asked whether or not it had insurance
policies in effect at the time of the incident, and what the information is
regarding the policy. However, Defendant’s answer is nonresponsive. As to Form
Interrogatory No. 12.2, Defendant identifies individuals without providing
complete answers. The requested
information is relevant as Plaintiff must be able to conduct discovery and
depositions of individuals with discoverable information. If Defendant objects
on privacy grounds, Defendant has the burden of justifying its objections. As
to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, the Court finds Defendant’s response is
nonresponsive and does not discuss any of Plaintiff’s request for admissions.
 
The Court notes that Defendant has failed to oppose the motion. “A party who has not timely filed
written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral
argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an inference
that the motion…is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the court may
hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing in order to
afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he rule is
patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without prior
notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.)
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 12.2 and 17.1. 
 
a.      Form
Interrogatories, Set One - Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Defendant engaged in the misuse of the discovery process by
failing to make good faith efforts to respond to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories,
Set One. Plaintiff requests $3,970 in sanctions for counsel’s work on this
motion, including 4 hours spent on the instant motion, an anticipated 2
additional hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply and appear at the
hearing, and $70 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted. However, since no opposition was filed, the Court awards
sanctions in the reduced total amount of $2,670 (4 hours of attorney time at
the rate of $650 an hour and $70 filing fee).
 
D.     Special
Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 17.
 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. provided improper, evasive and
incomplete answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 17. The
interrogatories at issue are as follows:
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 2: “Please
IDENTIFY PLAINTIFF’S dates of employment with YOU.”
 
Defendant’s
Response to Special Interrogatory
No. 2:
“Said
information is within the knowledge of the Plaintiff and has not been properly
identified in Responses to discovery or in the base of the complaint.”
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 17: “Please
state the number of rest period premium payments YOU paid to PLAINTIFF during
the July 1, 2023 to present.”
 
Defendant’s
Response to Special Interrogatory
No. 17:
“Plaintiff was
paid for all rest periods.”
 
The Court finds that further responses are warranted. Defendant
was Plaintiff’s employer and the requested information is in Defendant’s
possession. However, Defendant’s answers to both interrogatories is
non-responsive and not code compliant. Defendant has failed to oppose the
motion. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc.’s further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 17.
 
a.      Special
Interrogatories, Set One – Sanctions 
 
The Court
finds that Defendant engaged in the misuse of the discovery process by failing
to make good faith efforts to respond to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories,
Set One. Plaintiff requests $3,970 in sanctions for counsel’s work on this
motion, including 4 hours spent on the instant motion, an anticipated 2
additional hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply and appear at the
hearing, and $70 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted. However, since no opposition was filed, the Court awards
sanctions in the reduced total amount of $2,670 (4 hours of attorney time at
the rate of $650 an hour and $70 filing fee).
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

(1)  
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4.1, 12.2
and 17.1 to Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
(2)  
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2 and 17
to Defendant Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Dino’s
Burgers Fast Food, Inc. shall provide verified responses within 30 days. The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Dino’s Burgers Fast Food, Inc. in the reduced amount of $2,670. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 