 Case Number:  BC630262    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  73 12/06/2024 
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ISRAEL v. KADOSH, et al. (BC630262)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Bijan Israel
(Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Jeff Lesser (Jeff Lesser Law)
 
DEFENDANT AND CROSS-COMPLAINANT AVNER
KADOSH’S MOTION TO SET ORDER OF DISMISSAL OF CROSS-COMPLAINT (filed 10/18/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Complainant’s motion.
 
The Court amends the October 2, 2024
order to reinstate the Cross-Complaint. The Court orders Cross-Complainant to
file a declaration in opposition to the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint due to the
5-years statute of limitation.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On August 10, 2016, Plaintiff Bijan Israel (“Bijan”)—as a
self-represented litigant—filed this lawsuit against Defendant Avner Kadosh (“Kadosh”)
for battery.  
On September 12, 2016, Kadosh filed a cross-complaint against
Bijan and Sima Israel aka Sima Sharaf alleging the following causes of action: 
1.      Breach of Written Contract 
2.      Open Book Account 
3.      Account Stated 
4.      Goods Sold and Delivered 
5.      Unjust Enrichment 
On November 15, 2017, Bijan amended the complaint to
substitute Doe #1 with Defendant Jeff Lesser, who is Kadosh’s counsel of
record   
On December 4, 2017, Bijan dismissed his complaint without
prejudice.   
On January 3, 2018, Bijan filed a second lawsuit (BC688916)
against Defendants Kadosh, Jeff Lesser and Judge Diedre Hill. Bijan alleged a
cause of action against Kadosh and subsequently dismissed the other cause of
action for Abuse of Process. On June 12, 2018, Bijan dismissed Defendant Hill
from the second lawsuit (BC688916.)  
On June 29, 2018, the court (Dept. 73) related this action
(which is now just the Kadosh’s cross-complaint) with Bijan’s second lawsuit
(BC688916.)  On August 27, 2018, the cases were consolidated with this
action (BC630262) designated as the lead case. 
On October 2, 2024, the Court held an Order to Show Cause Re:
Dismissal of the Complaint and Cross-Complaint. The Court, pursuant to an oral
request made by Plaintiff, dismissed the Complaint without prejudice. In its
minute order, the Court stated that Defendant/Cross-Complainant failed to file
a declaration in opposition to the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint due to the
5-years statute of limitation. The Court found no good cause as to why the case
should not be dismissed and dismissed the Cross-Complaint without prejudice.
On
October 18, 2024, Kadosh filed the instant Motion to Set Aside, arguing:
·      
Kadosh
requests an order setting aside the Order of Dismissal made on October 2, 2024,
which dismissed the Cross-Complaint in its entirety
·      
The
Cross-Complaint alleged that there were multiple invoices for fabric sold to
Bijan Israel, Sima Israel and their business. Kadosh attached invoices to the
Cross-Complaint showing Cross-Defendants owed him money. 
·      
The
Cross-Complaint was not related to Bijan’s battery claim in his Complaint. 
·      
On
August 14, 2024, the Court had ordered that Kadosh file a declaration regarding
why the Cross-Complaint should proceed if the main action of Israel was
dismissed and that the declaration be filed prior to the October 2, 2024
hearing. 
·      
Kadosh’s
counsel states he was hospitalized and did not calendar that a declaration
needed to be filed prior to the October 2, 2024 hearing. 
·      
Kadosh’s
counsel states in his declaration that based on his mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect he had not filed a declaration in response to the Court’s OSC
re dismissal of the Cross-Complaint. 
 
Cross-Defendant Bijan filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
There is no declaration by Kadosh or evidence indicating that
Kadosh did not wish for the Cross-Complaint to be dismissed
·      
There is no showing of any sort of extrinsic fraud to justify
setting aside the subject dismissal order
·      
Kadosh should be estopped from moving to set aside the subject
dismissal order because Bijan had relied upon the finality 
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
Cross-Complainant Kadosh moves for an
order granting relief from this Court’s order dated October 2, 2024 order dismissing
the Cross-Complaint.
 
On August 12, 2024, the Court held a
hearing in this matter. According to the Court’s minute order, Plaintiff agreed
to dismiss the case. (Court’s 8/12/14 Order, p. 1.) The Court’s order also
stated “Cross-Complainant intends to proceed with the cross-complaint and
indicates to the court that parties had waived the 5 years statute of
limitations.” (Ibid.) Thus, the Court ordered Cross-Complainant to file
a declaration in opposition to the dismissal due to the 5 years statute of
limitations before the October 2, 2024 hearing date. (Ibid.)
 
On October 2, 2024, the Court held an Order to Show Cause hearing Re:
Dismissal of the Complaint and Cross-Complaint. The Court’s minute order states
that “Cross-Complainant failed to file a declaration in opposition to the
dismissal due to the 5-years statute of limitation. The Court finds no good
cause as to why the case should not be dismissed.” (Court’s
10/02/14 Order.) Therefore, the Court dismissed the Cross-Complaint without
prejudice. 
 
Cross-Complainant brings this instant
motion arguing the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint was due to the mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect of his counsel. 
 
A party may apply for an order
granting relief under § 473(b) “upon any such term as may be just…from a
judgment, dismissal, order or other proceeding taken against him or her through
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.”
 
The Court had dismissed the
Cross-Complaint due to Cross-Complainant’s failure to file a declaration in
opposition to the dismissal. In his instant motion, Cross-Complainant submitted
a declaration by his counsel, Jeff Lesser, stating that the failure to file the
declaration in opposition to the dismissal was due to attorney fault. Lesser
states he had been recently hospitalized and did not calendar that a
declaration needed to be filed prior to the October 2, 2024 hearing.
 
The Court finds that amending the
October 2, 2024 order dismissing the Cross-Complaint would be in the
furtherance of justice. 
 
Thus, the Court amends the October 2,
2024 order to reinstate the Cross-Complaint. The Court orders Cross-Complainant
to file a declaration in opposition to the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint due to the
5-years statute of limitation.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The Court GRANTS
Cross-Complainant’s motion.
 
The
Court amends the October 2, 2024 order to reinstate the Cross-Complaint. The
Court orders Cross-Complainant to file a declaration in opposition to the dismissal of the Cross-Complaint due to the
5-years statute of limitation.