 Case Number:  19SMCV01876    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here for an OSC re: Dismissal through
settlement or failure to prosecute.  The
case was filed in October 2019.  At an
earlier final status conference—a week before the scheduled trial date—plaintiff
had done nothing to prepare.  The court
therefore set an OSC re: Dismissal for failure to prosecute and failure to
abide by the court’s final status conference requirements.  At the later hearing, the parties stated that
they had settled.  However, there was no
dismissal.  The parties dispute whether
they in fact had an agreement or who backed out.  At the last hearing, the court set an OSC re:
Dismissal either pursuant to a settlement or for plaintiff’s failure to
prosecute.  The day before today’s
hearing, plaintiff submitted a declaration stating that he had settled the case
but that defendant wanted to change the terms. 
He asked the court to enforce the agreement that he claims he had made.  However, he attached no evidence of the
agreement.  While he says there was an
email, he did not attach it.  
The court, frankly, simply finds plaintiff to be not
credible.  The court believes that there
might have been discussions close to a deal at one point—defendant indicated as
much—but there is apparently no deal. 
And plaintiff’s pattern is to do nothing until the day of or the day
before a hearing and then suddenly demand more time or come up with some
excuse.  The fact is that plaintiff has
not litigated the case.  Had plaintiff
wanted to enforce the supposed deal over defendant’s objections, there were ways
for him to do so, such as bringing a motion under CCP section 664.6 to enforce
the contract or amending his complaint to allege the settlement agreement and
then seeking to enforce it by way of motion or (if necessary) trial.  But right now, plaintiff has, again, simply
decided to show up on the eve of the hearing and ask for something he plainly
cannot get or more time.
The time has come to end this litigation.  The case is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court notes that the matter is almost
four years old and the cross complaint is almost four years old.  Pursuant to CCP section 583.410, et seq., the
case ought to be dismissed.