 Case Number:  22SMCV01859    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  I The motion for a good faith determination is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.  
This was an auto accident case.  Defendant has tendered the full policy limits
in return for a release and two out of three plaintiffs have agreed.  So far as the court can tell, the settlement
is straightforward in that the release is total, there is no contingent return
of the money (such as might be the case in a Mary Carter situation), and
there is no reason to believe that the settlement was anything other than arms’
length.  According to the settling
parties, that is enough under Tech-Bilt. 
(The court notes that the settling parties contend that the settlement
is contingent on the good faith finding, which would mean that the settling
defendant would not be subject to claims for equitable indemnity or
contribution.  That much is not clear to
the court based on the settlement agreement’s language, but the court will not
delve into it here.  The court presumes
that such a contingency exists.)
The problem is that more must be shown, at least in the
teeth of an opposition, before the burden shifts to the objecting defendant to
demonstrate a lack of good faith.  While
settling defendant states he has no other assets (in a declaration the
substance of which is less than a half page), there is no evidence before the
court verifying as much and the non-settling defendants would like the chance
to verify that claim.  At least some
minimal detail is proper or the non-settling party should have some ability to
test the assertion.  The settling
defendant, in an untimely reply, suggests that the non-settling defendant is
seeking intrusive discovery into the settling defendant’s finances.  The court is not requiring chapter and verse,
but more than the very minimal declaration is required.  To be clear, if the settling defendant has no
meaningful assets to satisfy a judgment, it is hard to see how a good faith
finding would not follow.  But the
non-settling defendant is entitled to seek a bit more than it now has.  Of course, if this does turn into an invasive
microscopic examination into the settling defendant’s finances, the court has
appropriate tools at its disposal. 
Further, the motion does not set forth plaintiff’s alleged total damages
so that the court can determine whether the settling defendant’s payment is
proportionate to the injury and defendant’s role.  In the reply (which comes too late—this had
to be in the moving papers), the settling defendant suggests that the Howell
damages are less than the settlement amount, and that might well be.  But the court does not know what the
non-economic damages are or the effect that might have.  That is important because it would appear
that defendant has some significant exposure given that defendant was the
allegedly negligent driver who plaintiff claims caused the accident.  Further, the settlement does not apportion
the settlement proceeds as amongst the settling plaintiffs.  That must be done.  The non-settling defendants have the right to
know now what the offset is as to each plaintiff.  Nor does the settlement apportion between
economic and non-economic damages, which should also be done.  The court is also just a bit confused as to
the settlement itself.  In the papers, it
appears that the total amount being tendered is $100,000 jointly to the two
settling plaintiffs.  But in the untimely
reply, the settling defendant seems to indicate that it is $100,000 to each
settling plaintiff.  That is a
distinction with a difference, and it should be clarified.
None of this is to say that the motion will not eventually
be granted (indeed, it likely will be granted; such motions usually are).  It is only to say that the moving party needs
to describe more and the opposing party ought to have some streamlined,
relatively minimal, ability to test the settling defendant’s bona fides.  Nor is the court stating that full economic
discovery is appropriate.  It could well
be that a more informal showing by the settling defendant to the other
defendants will suffice.  After all, the
point here is for the settling defendant to buy peace, at least as to the
settling plaintiffs.  The more that needs
to be spent on procedure, the harder it is to buy the peace, and that is the
whole point of the settlement.  Tech-Bilt
does not require so much discovery that it undermines the whole purpose of the
settlement.  But for now, there simply is
not enough.  And how the money is
allocated ought to be set forth.