 Case Number:  23SMCV03416    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Plaintiff filed this action against defendant, a public
entity.  The gist of the complaint is
that defendant had a duty to provide mirrors in the men’s bathroom.  Due to plaintiff’s condition, when he went
into the bathroom and saw no mirror, it was triggering for him and caused him
great distress.  Defendant demurs.  There is no opposition filed.
Where the defendant is a governmental agency, sovereign
immunity imposes special burdens.  The
injured party must identify a “specific statute declaring [the entity] to be
liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care by the agency in favor
of the plaintiff.  (Koussaya v. City
of Stockton (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 909.) 
There is no statute so identified in the complaint and the court’s
independent research has disclosed none.
Further, it does not appear that plaintiff has alleged
compliance with the claims presentation requirement.  For a governmental agency to be liable in
light of sovereign immunity, a plaintiff must first present the claim to that
agency.  The agency then has a certain
period of time to act on the claim.  The
agency can accept the claim (thereby satisfying the injured party), or reject
it (or something in between).  If the
agency does not accept the claim fully, or fails to act, then the injured party
may bring a lawsuit.  But absent first
presenting the claim to the agency, the allegedly injured party may not bring a
suit in court.  If the plaintiff does not
affirmatively allege compliance with the claims procedure, then the complaint
is vulnerable to demurrer.  (Pacific
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. County of Riverside (1980) 106, Cal.App.3d
183.)  Here, plaintiff does not allege
compliance.
It does not appear that these defects can be cured by
amendment.  The court will ask the
plaintiff about that, and if the plaintiff states that he can cure the problem,
the court will reconsider its decision on whether to grant such leave.
The motion to strike is MOOT. 