 Case Number:  23SMCV02534    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  I Plaintiffs Homan Sefaradi
and Michael Kafaei (collectively “plaintiffs”) filed this interference with
contract and quiet title action against defendants Direct Default Services, LLC
and Esther Valenzuela (collectively “defendants”).  They filed amendments to the complaint
designating DOES 1-4 as Trevor Montano, Wei Ping Chow LLC, Mark Giraudo, and
Elana Cohen-Roth.  According to the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), at issue are the circumstances
surrounding the foreclosure sale of a Marina del Rey property on April 20,
2023.  (FAC, ¶¶2, 10.)  Plaintiffs claim that on April 21, 2023,
defendant Esther Valenzuela of trustee (and defendant) DDS suggested that
Sefaradi sign an affidavit that he was a prospective-owner occupant pursuant to
Civil Code section 2924m.  (Id. at
¶11.)  She allegedly stated that to the
extent the affidavit became unnecessary because there were no other bidders,
she would make the affidavit disappear. 
(Id. at ¶12.)  She
purportedly stated that if Sefaradi signed, the sale would have been final when
the auction closed.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs contend that Sefaradi refused to
sign and submitted a legitimate bid.  (Id.
at ¶13.)  Plaintiffs assert he was the
highest bidder at the auction with a bid of $810,000 and tendered appropriate
cashier’s checks.  (Id. at ¶14.)
Plaintiffs allege that on
May 5, Valenzuela informed Sefaradi that only three bidders, Chaim Marcus,
Brian Borneman, and Michael Moretz, had submitted eligible bidder affidavits
within 15 days after the sale.  (FAC, ¶16.)  She did not indicate there were more than
three bids until May 26th, despite further conversations between her and
Sefardi with her in the interim.  (Id.
at ¶¶17-19.)  However, plaintiffs contend
that on or about May 26, Valenzuela claimed that the three proper bids had
ended up in her spam folder.  (Id.
at ¶19.)  Plaintiffs claim that on June
2, Valenzuela advised that one of the bidders had tendered their funds for the
bid.  (Id. at ¶20.)  DDS declared that the winning bidder was
ultimately Trevor Montano, who claimed to be a prospective owner-occupant.   (FAC, ¶23.) 
However, Montano allegedly is a real estate agent and investor with more
than 6 property listings within two miles of the property.  (Id. at ¶23.)  Plaintiffs contend that in his eligible
bidder affidavit, Montano listed his purported home address but he supposedly
bought that property in June 2021 and leased it within a month.  (Id. at ¶¶25-26.)  Thereafter, Montano recorded a deed of trust
against the property on a promissory note of $1.5 million with a beneficiary
named as Wei Ping Chow LLC.  (Id.
at ¶27.)  Plaintiffs note that Montano’s
winning bid was for $1,027,600.  (FAC,
¶28.)  The lien supposedly being
foreclosed upon was the third lien on the property (meaning that there were two
liens senior to the one resulting in the foreclosure.  (Id. at ¶21.)  Plaintiffs state that senior to the
foreclosed lien was a first lien of roughly $1 million and a second lien of
approximately $20,000.  (Id. at
¶29.)  Junior to the foreclosed lien was
a fourth lien of $1.5 million. (Id. at ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs observe that despite Montano recording a promissory note of
$1.5 million, neither the first nor second liens were paid off.  (Id. at ¶¶29-30.)  Notably, the second lien was in default at
the time of the sale.  (Id. at
¶31.)  Plaintiffs assert that it is
suspicious that the $1.5 million seems to match the exact amount of the lien by
the initial fourth junior lien holder, who had previously attempted to stop the
foreclosure sale to avoid being wiped out without success.  (Id. at ¶32.)  The property is now overleveraged based upon
the combined $1.2 million from the original loans and the $1.5 million from the
new note signed by Montano. (Id. at ¶33.)  Plaintiffs argue that no reasonable,
arms-length lender would have accepted a junior lien position on an
overleveraged asset.  (Id. at
¶34.)
Currently before the court
is defendants’ demurrer to each cause of action in the FAC on the ground of
failure to state sufficient facts.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
Plaintiffs oppose.
Defendants Giraudo and Wei
Ping Chow filed a notice of joinder on September 11.  The joinder request here does not seek
affirmative relief.  (See Barak v. The
Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 654, 661.)  In Barak, the court held the joinder
was proper in part because it sought affirmative relief, namely striking the
plaintiff’s complaint as to the joining defendant and awarding costs and
attorney’s fees in his favor.  (Ibid.)  Here, the joining defendants request no
affirmative relief; they simply request to join DDS and Valenzuela’s
demurrer.  But most of the causes of
action are only stated against DDS and Valenzuela and so joining in those
arguments is useless.  And except for the
injunctive relief claim, DDS and Valenzuela’s arguments are specific to their
situation and violation of Civil Code section 2924m.  Plaintiffs otherwise concede the propriety of
the injunctive relief demurrer in any event. 
The request is DENIED for failing to specify the common basis of the
joinder and the relief sought.  (The
denial is not critical, though, in light of the court’s tentative.)
Defendants’ request for
judicial notice is GRANTED.
With that, the court turns
to the merits.  On the first and second
causes of action for interference with prospective advantage and contractual
relations, defendants assert that plaintiffs have failed to allege any requisite
violation of Civil Code section 2924m. 
In those causes of action, plaintiffs allege that defendants’ violation
of this statute was the wrongful “interference.”
Civil Code section 2924m
states that “[a] trustee's sale of property under a power of sale contained in
a deed of trust or mortgage on real property containing one to four residential
units pursuant to Section 2924g shall not be deemed final until the earliest of
the following” situations.  (Civ. Code, §
2924m, subd. (c).)  Relevant here are the
first, second, and fourth alternatives. 
The first alternative occurs where a prospective owner-occupant is the
last and highest bidder at the auction and submits the requisite affidavit
(which Sefaradi rightly refused to provide). 
(Id. at subd. (c)(1).)  The
second alternative is “Fifteen days after the trustee's sale unless at least
one eligible tenant buyer or eligible bidder submits to the trustee either a
bid pursuant to paragraph (3) or (4) or a nonbinding written notice of intent
to place such a bid.”  (Id. at
subd. (c)(2).)  The fourth alternative is
“Forty-five days after the trustee's sale, except that during the 45-day
period, an eligible bidder may submit to the trustee a bid in an amount that
exceeds the last and highest bid at the trustee's sale, in the form of cash, a
cashier's check drawn on a state or national bank, a cashier's check drawn by a
state or federal credit union, or a cashier's check drawn by a state or federal
savings and loan association, savings association, or savings bank specified in
Section 5102 of the Financial Code and authorized to do business in this
state.”  If such a bid is made, then the
new bidder will be the successful one.  (Id.
at subd. (c)(4).)
Defendants argue they
complied with these time periods and the FAC is predicated on mere speculation
that Valenzuela accepted untimely bids. This is a factual argument
inappropriate for a demurrer.  Plaintiffs
provide factual allegations indicating why they believe Valenzuela accepted
untimely bids in violation of Civil Code section 2924m and that is sufficient
for pleading purposes.  (The court,
obviously, makes no finding as to whether the allegations are true.)  Defendants also argue that they are entitled
to rely on the eligible bidder declaration. 
That is true so far as it goes. 
Defendants are under no affirmative obligation to investigate to
determine whether an eligible bidder declaration is true; if it is in proper
form, that is sufficient.  The problem is
that the rule does not protect defendants against actual knowledge of
falsity.  Here, plaintiffs contend that
Valenzuela knew that the winning bid was untimely and accepted it anyway.  Plaintiffs also allege that Valenzuela was
telling people to submit false declarations (because she had told plaintiff to
do so).  Those may be difficult
allegations to prove, but they are based on more than speculation.  They are based on Valenzuela’s alleged
earlier statements to plaintiffs.  While
the matter is not free from doubt, the court believes it is sufficient to
survive a pleading motion.  Defendants
also contend that even if the winning bidder did not submit a timely
declaration of an intent to bid, it does not matter so long as someone
did.  Defendants’ argument is that so
long as someone submitted such a declaration (and Valenzuela always said
at least three people did), then the 45 day period applies and it allows any
person to submit the declaration and make the bid within that time, not
just those who filed the notice of intent. 
That is an interesting argument, and neither side has really delved into
it fully.  Nor does the statute’s
language definitively resolve the question. 
But the court need not resolve it either because plaintiffs’ claim that
Valenzuela was inviting people to submit declarations that are false is enough
to support the cause of action at least in part, and a demurrer will not lie to
only part of a cause of action.
Next, defendants argue
that Valenzuela’s statements are protected by the common interest
privilege.  The case cited by defendants
indicates the weakness in defendants’ argument. 
In Kachlon v. Markowitz, the Court of Appeal held that “section
2924 deems the statutorily required mailing, publication, and delivery of
notices in nonjudicial foreclosure, and the performance of statutory
nonjudicial foreclosure procedures, to be privileged communications under the
qualified common-interest privilege of section 47, subdivision (c)(1).”  (Kachlon v. Markowitz (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 316, 333.)  True enough, but
it does not bring defendants home.  Civil
Code section 47 provides “a qualified privilege for communications made
‘without malice, to a person interested therein, . . . by one who is also
interested’ (§ 47, subd. (c)(1)), the so-called common interest privilege.  For this purpose, malice is defined as actual
malice, meaning ‘ “that the publication was motivated by hatred or ill will
towards the plaintiff or by a showing that the defendant lacked reasonable
grounds for belief in the truth of the publication and therefore acted in
reckless disregard of the plaintiff's rights.” ’  (Sanborn v. Chronicle Pub. Co. (1976)
18 Cal.3d 406, 413; see Noel v. River Hills Wilsons, Inc. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1370.)”  (Id. at
p. 336.)  As the Kachlon court
makes clear, the privilege applies to communications made without malice.  Here, the allegations indicate that
defendants acted with reckless disregard of plaintiffs’ rights.  As such, the privilege does shield defendants
at this juncture.
Valenzuela next asserts
she cannot be liable in her individual capacity, as officers or directors of
business entities cannot be liable for torts of their employer.  There is no allegation indicating that
Valenzuela is an officer or director of DDS. 
The request for judicial notice contains no such documents either.  But even putting that to one side, the
argument fails.  An officer or director
who personally participates in torts does not escape liability simply because
of their position.  “ ‘[A]n officer or
director will not be liable for torts in which he does not personally
participate, of which he has no knowledge, or to which he has not consented . .
. . While the corporation itself may be liable for such acts, the individual
officer or director will be immune unless he authorizes, directs, or in some
meaningful sense actively participates in the wrongful conduct.’ ”  (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn.
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503-504.)  “In
general, members of a limited liability company are not liable for the ‘debts,
obligations, or other liabilities’ of the limited liability company.  (Corp. Code, § 17703.04, subd (a); see id.,
subds. (b)-(e) [identifying ways in which members can be held liable, including
alter ego liability, a member's participation in tortious conduct, and a
member explicitly agreeing to personal liability for particular
obligations].)”  (CB Richard Ellis,
Inc. v. Terra Nostra Consultants (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 405, 411, emphasis
added; see also, Corp. Code, § 17703.04, subd. (c) [“Nothing in this section
shall be construed to affect the liability of a member of a limited liability
company to third parties for the member's participation in tortious
conduct…”].)  “[W]e hold that whereas
managers of limited liability companies may not be held liable for the wrongful
conduct of the companies merely because of the managers' status, they may
nonetheless be held accountable under Corporations Code section 17158,
subdivision (a) for their personal participation in tortious or criminal conduct,
even when performing their duties as manager.” 
(People v. Pacific Landmark, LLC (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1203,
1213, emphasis in original.)  Valenzuela
is alleged to have made the wrongful representations and violated Civil Code
section 2924m by way of her individual actions. 
If that is true, then she is liable for those acts.  The demurrers to the first and second causes
of action are OVERRULED.
Next is the third cause of
action for quiet title. “In an ordinary action to quiet title it is sufficient
to allege in simple language that the plaintiff is the owner and in possession
of the land and that the defendant claims an interest therein adverse to
him.  (Williams v. City & County
of San Francisco, 24 Cal.App.2d 630, 633; Castro v. Barry, 79 Cal.
443, 446–447; 41 Cal.Jur.2d, quieting Title, §§ 50–52, pp. 526–534; Code Civ.
Proc. § 738.)”  (South Shore Land Co.
v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 740–741, parallel citations
omitted.)  Defendants argue that
plaintiffs have not alleged any clear legal foundation to their claim to the
property.  But they have.  They have alleged that defendants’,
Montano’s, Giraudo’s, and Wei Ping Chow’s fraudulent acts have deprived
plaintiffs of their property in that they were in fact the successful bidder
and title should have been given to them. 
In that way, the case is similar to Warren v. Merrill, in which
the Court of Appeal stated: “On the other hand, Merrill correctly notes that as
a general matter an action to quiet title cannot be maintained by the owner of
equitable title as against the holder of legal title.  However, because of her fraud Merrill through
Charmaine acquired only bare legal title which she held as constructive trustee
for Warren, who, based on the equities, held superior title.   [¶] Finally, when legal title has been
acquired through fraud any number of remedies are available and
appropriate.  [¶]  These remedies include quieting title in the
defrauded equitable title holder's name and making the legal title holder the
constructive trustee of the property for the benefit of the defrauded equitable
titleholder.  ‘[W]here, as here, the
facts upon which plaintiff's claim is based, are alleged, there is authority to
grant any proper relief [within the strictures of the Code of Civil
Procedure].  And appropriate remedies,
such as cancellation, reconveyance, or decrees quieting title, or establishing
or enforcing trusts, or determining the priorities of opposing equities, may be
had, as between proper parties under our system, whenever they are required
upon equitable considerations and are justified by the pleadings and proof in
the case.  [Citations.]’ ”  (Warren v. Merrill (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 96, 113–114, internal footnotes omitted.)  Here, plaintiffs’ allegations sound in fraud
and therefore the quiet title claim may proceed.  The demurrer is OVERRULED.
The demurrer to the
injunctive relief claim is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, and plaintiffs
concede as much.  However, the court
agrees that plaintiffs may be entitled to injunctive relief, so this ruling
does not affect the request in the prayer for relief. 
The demurrer to the UCL
claim is OVERRULED.  “ ‘Because Business
and Professions Code section 17200 is written in the disjunctive, it
establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are
unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.  “In
other words, a practice is prohibited as ‘unfair’ or ‘deceptive’ even if not
‘unlawful’ and vice versa.” ’ [Citations.]” (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc.
v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  To plead an unlawful business practice, a
plaintiff must allege facts that demonstrate defendant’s conduct violated
another underlying law.  (Farmers Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.)  Plaintiffs allege a violation of Civil Code
section 2924m.
As for the sixth cause of
action for negligence, the demurrer is also OVERRULED.  Defendants again argue they did not violation
Civil Code section 2924m. That is not something to be resolved on a demurrer,
and the allegations are otherwise indicate defendants did violate the statute.
Defendants have 30 days to
answer.
 