 Case Number:  23SMCV02005    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
Defendant has 30 days to answer.
Plaintiff Toru Ogawa
(“plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination action against defendants
Irori Restaurant Management, Inc. and M&J Management Group, Inc.
(collectively “defendants”).  According
to the operative complaint, plaintiff is man of Japanese descent who worked at
defendant Irori Sushi for approximately four years, including as a chef.  (Compl., ¶11.)  Plaintiff claims that on or around February
13, 2020, he contacted his supervisor about his need for medical leave and
substantiated his request with a doctor’s note. 
(Id. at ¶12.)  Plaintiff
purportedly gave the note to his supervisor Katie Yoo as well.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff says that he asked to speak with
someone in Human Resources about paperwork he might need to fill out but was
told not to bother because the people in the department only spoke Korean,
which plaintiff did not speak.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff asserts that on or around March 2,
2020, which was two days prior before he was scheduled to go out for surgery,
Yoo gave him an Employee Warning Notice. 
(Compl., ¶15.)  However, he claims
that no specific instances of the noted misconduct were detailed therein.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff states this was his first write up
with Irori Sushi.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff contends that he stayed in touch
with Yoo and the head chef regarding his post-surgery recovery.  (Id. at ¶¶16-18.)  On July 7, he allegedly received a doctor’s
note releasing back to work full time for up to five hours a day beginning on
July 20.  (Id. at ¶19.)  Plaintiff contends he provided the note to
plaintiff but on July 20, he was told by Yoo that there were no jobs for
him.  (Id. at ¶21.)  Plaintiff asserts that this is not true,
given that Irori Sushi remained open and busy following plaintiff’s release to
work, noting that the schedule for the first week of August 2020 included four
to five days of work for the eight other checks.  (Id. at ¶22.)  Irori Sushi apparently had work for the
Korean chefs but took the opportunity to push out plaintiff, who was
Japanese.  (Ibid.)
Currently before the court
is defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike the complaint.  Plaintiff opposes.  The court observes that there is a dispute as
to whether defendants met and conferred. 
The court cannot resolve this conflict. 
Defendants filed a declaration but plaintiff did not.  The declaration by defendants’ counsel is
very conclusory, but it is there. 
Additionally, the court may not overrule a demurrer or deny a motion to
strike based on deficiencies in the meet and confer process.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4),
435.5, subd. (a)(4).)  The court warns
the parties that it expects better cooperation between counsel in the future to
avoid motions that needlessly clutter the court’s calendar. Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions is DENIED.
Defendants demur to the
entire complaint on the ground of uncertainty and to each cause of action on
the ground of failure to state sufficient facts. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subds. (e), (f).)  “[D]emurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (Lickiss v. Fin. Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  This complaint easily meets the required
standard.  The demurrers for uncertainty
are unsubstantiated and OVERRULED.
The demurrer to the first
cause of action for disability discrimination is OVERRULED.  Defendants argue that plaintiff has not
alleged a qualifying disability and that plaintiff fails to allege he was
fired.  The court disagrees. First,
plaintiff alleges that he had a shoulder issue that required medical leave due
to the surgery.  That surgery would not
allow him to perform his job temporarily. 
Despite defendants’ unsupported insistence in reply, the finite medical
leave alleged here constitutes a reasonable accommodation for such a
disability.  After being informed of
plaintiff’s shoulder surgery, Yoo gave plaintiff an Employee Warning Notice,
where he had not had one in the prior four years, and he was not provided the
proper paperwork for medical leave. 
(Compl., ¶29.)  Further, plaintiff
was not hired back even though he was released back to work.  (Id. at ¶31.)  Defendants assume, without legal support,
that the only qualifying adverse employment action is termination.  Our Supreme Court has explicitly defined
“adverse employment action” as much broader than that.  The warning notice could be viewed as
pretextual in these circumstances, and reads as a lead-up to plaintiff being
denied work due to his disability.  That
is sufficient for pleading purposes.
The demurrer to the second
cause of action for race discrimination is OVERRULED.  Defendants first assert plaintiff’s
allegation that he is Japanese is insufficient to allege that he is a member of
a protected class.  Again, there is no
legal authority supporting defendants’ position that plaintiff’s invocation of
his race as different from all others at Irori Sushi is insufficient.  As it is, plaintiff alleges that he was
Japanese and all other staff members were Korean, including the HR department
and the chefs. A reasonable inference indicates that he was discriminated
against due to his race and/or national origin. 
Plaintiff also satisfies the nexus allegations.  Plaintiff was denied access to paperwork
about medical leave because all the HR workers apparently only spoke Korean,
which does not seem like a valid excuse, and was not given work due to his
race/national origin, even though all the other Korean chefs were scheduled for
multiple shifts during that time.  That
is sufficient for pleading purposes.
The demurrer to the third
cause of action for retaliation is OVERRULED. The same arguments are raised as
those in relation to the first cause of action. 
The same analysis applies.  The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination is
OVERRULED.  Defendants only argue that
the predicate claim for discrimination is not pled.  But defendants are wrong.  Plaintiff has adequately alleged both his
race and disability discrimination claims. 
The demurrer to the fifth
cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of Labor Code section
246.5 and public policy is OVERRULED.  As
is clear from the title of the cause of action, it is based on two separate
acts.  If any states a claim, the
demurrer fails. “Ordinarily, a general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of
a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded,
the demurrer will be overruled. (Campbell v. Genshlea (1919) 180 Cal.
213, 217.)”  (Fire Ins. Exchange v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452, parallel citations
omitted.)  Here, the portion predicated
on the violation of public policy, i.e., disability and race
discrimination in violation of FEHA, states a claim.  Defendants argue that the public policy is
not specified in the cause of action, but that argument is frivolous.  A violation of FEHA can support a claim for
wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
The demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is OVERRULED. The claim alleges a violation of Labor Code
section 201(a). Defendants argue it fails to allege plaintiff was fired or
released from employment.  That is not a reasonable
reading of the complaint.  Plaintiff
alleges he was told there were no jobs for him, which leads to the reasonable
inference that he was terminated.  That
allegation is not conclusory.
The demurrer to the
seventh cause of action for unpaid overtime is also OVERRULED.  Defendants argue it is conclusory and that
plaintiff fails to state the amount he was not paid.  Defendants cite no authority regarding the
pleading standard for this cause of action. 
Unlike the other causes of action where they at least cited general
elements and standards, there is nothing but argument on these causes of
action.  It is defendants’ responsibility
to cite authority to support their position. The demurrer is unsubstantiated.
The same analysis applies to the demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages is DENIED. 
Plaintiff’s allegations of discrimination and termination amount to
malicious conduct in violation of his statutory rights.  For pleading purposes, this is sufficient.