  Case Number:  20STCV17682    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  74 Suzanne Ruelas v. City of Baldwin
Park, et al.
 
Motion to Quash or Limit Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Third Parties and Request for
Sanctions.
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from an employment dispute. 
            Plaintiff
Suzanne Ruelas (Plaintiff) filed her complaint on May 8, 2020, against
Defendants City of Baldwin Park, Shannon Yauchzee, Rose Tam, Laura Thomas,
Robert Tafoya, Manuel Lozano, Michael Taylor, Benjamin Martinez (Defendants).
            On
September 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint.
            On
February 23, 2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC).
            On
December 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash or limit Defendants’
deposition subpoenas issued to Third-Parties Kaiser Permanente and Octave
Behavioral Health.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information,
or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein . . . the
court, upon motion reasonably made by [a witness] . . . may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely [or] modifying it.” 
            “In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd (a).) 
DISCUSSION
            With this motion, Plaintiff aims to
quash or modify a subpoena issued to Third-Party Octave Behavioral Health
(Octave) on November 30, 2022, as well as a subpoena issued to Third-Party
Kaiser Permanente SCPMG (Kaiser) on December 15, 2022. The former requests,
“Any and all documents and medical records pertaining to the examination, care,
diagnosis, and treatment of [Plaintiff]” regardless of date and provides a
non-exhaustive list of such documents. (Gbewonyo, ¶ 3; Ex. 1.) Meanwhile, the
Kaiser subpoena requests “Any and all documents and records pertaining to the
medical and/or psychological/psychiatric/mental examination, care, diagnosis,
and treatment of [Plaintiff]” and provides a non-exhaustive list of such
documents. (Gbewonyo Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. 2.) But the Kaiser subpoena only seeks
documents from January 1, 2013, until the present.
            As
a preliminary matter, the court notes Plaintiff has put only her emotional and
mental health at issue with her claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (SAC, ¶¶ 106-110.) Accordingly, Defendants must limit both subpoenas
so that they seek only documents pertaining to Plaintiff’s mental, emotional,
or psychological health—as opposed to medical records concerning Plaintiff’s
general or physical health. Plaintiff also argues that the subpoenas are not
sufficiently particularized. Although the subpoenas list specific categories of
items sought, they also demand “any and all” documents relevant to Plaintiff’s
medical treatment. Moreover, the Octave subpoena does not specify a limited
timeframe for what it requests. The court finds the temporal limitation in the
Kaiser subpoena reasonable because Plaintiff’s SAC includes allegations of
Defendant’s misconduct going back to 2016. (SAC, ¶ 12.) Defendants must also
remove the “any and all” language from both subpoenas. Lastly, the court will
exercise its discretion and decline to award either party monetary sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a). 
CONCLUSION 
Based
on the foregoing, the court grants Plaintiff’s motion in part.
The
subpoenas to third parties Kaiser Permanente and Octave Behavioral Health shall
be limited to only documents related to Plaintiff’s psychological,
psychiatric, or mental examination, care, diagnosis, and treatment from January
1, 2013, to the present.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.