 Case Number:  22STCV19210    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 



 
Grace
  kang,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY
  OF glendale, county of los angeles, robert velis, and 1-50 inclusive
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19210
 
[TENANTIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT CITY OF GLENDALE’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 Date: 
  September 05, 2024 
 Time: 
  8:30 a.m.
 Dept.: B
  
 
 



            
       I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
June 13, 2022, Plaintiff Grace Kang (“Plaintiff”) initiated this lawsuit by
filing a complaint on Judicial Council form PLD-PI-001 against Defendants City
of Glendale (“Glendale”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), Robert Velis
(“Velis”), and DOES 1 to 50 (collectively, “Defendants.”) Plaintiff asserted two
causes of action for (1) General Negligence, and (2) Premises Liability. Plaintiff
alleges that on October 2, 2021, she suffered a trip and fall accident when she
encountered a vertical sidewalk offset measuring 1.312 inches in front of 1713
Don Carlos Avenue in Glendale, California and incurred injuries. 
 
On
August 8, 2022, Cross-Complainant and Defendant Velis filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant and Defendant City of Glendale and ROES 1 to 50, inclusive.
Velis asserted causes of action against Defendant Glendale for: (1) Equitable
Indemnity (2) Contribution and Repayment, (3) Equitable Apportionment, (5)
Declaratory Relief, and the following causes of action against Defendant ROE-Cross-Defendants:
(6) Equitable Indemnity, (7) Equitable Apportionment, and (8) Declaratory
Relief.
 
On
August 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Fictious Name Amendment to the Complaint renaming
DOE 1 to West Coast Arborist, Inc.
 
On
September 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint for
Damages asserting (1) Public Entity Liability pursuant to Government Code §§ 815.2,
815.4, and (2) Dangerous Condition of Public Property against Defendants
Glendale, Los Angeles County, Velis, and DOES 1 to 50.
 
Defendant
Glendale now moves the Court for summary judgment on the basis that Plaintiff’s
first cause of action of Public Entity Liability pursuant to Government Code under
§§ 815.2 and 815.4 alleges a claim of negligence, for which a public entity can
only be held liable as provided by statute. (Motion, p. 2:1-4.) Defendant also
moves the Court for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action
against Defendant Glendale on the basis that a vertical sidewalk displacement
of 1.312 inches is trivial defect, to which liability cannot be applied to the
municipality and that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice. (Id¸
p. 2:5-7.)
 
Plaintiff
concedes to the first cause of action for Public Entity Liability, on the
grounds that the action is governed by Gov. Code §§ 830-834 regarding Dangerous
Condition of Public Property. (Opposition, p. 2:1-6.) As to the second cause of
action, Plaintiff opposes on the grounds that the defect is not trivial and
submits photographs of the sidewalk at issue, supported by the declaration of
expert witness Phil Rosescu. (Id., p. 3:1-3.) Plaintiff’s expert witness
declares that the irregularity of the sidewalk at issue poses a high risk to
pedestrians due to its propensity to snag on footwear and contribute to falls.
(Id., p. 3:4-8.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court considers the merits of the second cause of action asserted. 
 
Procedural
History
On
April 25, 2024, Defendant Glendale filed the instant motion for summary
judgment concurrently with a proposed order, declaration, and separate
statement. 
On
August 22, 2024, Plaintiff served and filed an opposition concurrently with an
objection to evidence and separate volume of evidence.
On
August 30, 2024, Defendant filed and served a reply concurrently with
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence, response to Plaintiff’s separate statement,
statement of additional material facts and a proposed order on objections.
The
hearing on this motion for summary judgment was initially scheduled for July
11, 2024, and has since been continued to September 4, 2024.
            The non-jury trial is scheduled for November 4, 2024.
 
    II.           
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s Evidence:
            Sustained:
1, 2
            Overruled:
None.
 
Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:
            Sustained:
1-3, 8-18
            Overruled:
4-7
 
 III.           
LEGAL
STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001); 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)¿¿ 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment
must show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar,
849, emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted
simply because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in
opposition. (Hagen v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188,
superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002)
28 Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a showing need not be strong;
it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.”].)¿¿¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿¿
 
A.    Government Code Sections 815.2 and 815.4
“A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by a tortious act or omission of an independent contractor
of the public entity to the same extent that the public entity would be subject
to such liability if it were a private person. Nothing in this section subjects
a public entity to liability for the act or omission of an independent contractor
if the public entity would not have been liable for the injury had the act or
omission been that of an employee of the public entity.” (Gov. Code §
815.4.) 
 
It is well-settled that a theory of
vicarious liability based on claims against public entities arising from
property defects cannot be brought under Government Code section 815.2.  (Longfellow v. San Luis Obispo County
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 379, 383.) 
Instead, these claims for vicarious liability must be brought pursuant
to Government Code sections 830-835.4.  (Ibid.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to state a
statutory basis for the first cause of action, and in opposition, Plaintiff
concedes that this cause of action is not at issue. (Opposition, p. 2:1-6.)
 
 
B.     Government
Code Section 835
      Government
Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity
is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.¿ (Metcalf
v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v.
Poway Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v.
County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.)¿ Per Government Code section
835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of
its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: [¶]
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or [¶] (b)
The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
. . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 835.)¿¿¿ 
A “dangerous condition” is a condition of
public property that “create[s] a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,
trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably
foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)¿¿¿ 
The outcome of this Motion turns on the
determination of whether the defect at issue is trivial.
C.   
The
Trivial Defect Doctrine 
¿ In Kasparian v. AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, the Court explained the
trivial defect doctrine as follows:  
“’In summary,
persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to
maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.¿ The duty of care imposed on
a property owner with actual notice, does not require the repair of minor
defects.’¿ Although sometimes referred to as the trivial defect defense, the
trivial defect doctrine is ‘not an affirmative defense but rather an aspect of
duty ... plaintiff must plead and prove.’¿¿ 
“The trivial
defect doctrine originated to shield public entities from liability where
conditions on public property create a risk ‘of such a minor, trivial or
insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances ... no reasonable
person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury
when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in
which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.’ This doctrine ‘permits
a court to determine ‘triviality’ as a matter of law rather than always
submitting the issue to a jury [and] provides a check valve for the elimination
from the court system of unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a
property owner what amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who
come upon the property.’ The trivial defect doctrine has been expanded to
embrace actions against private landowners.¿ 
“’When a court
determines whether a given defect is trivial, as a matter of law, the court
should not rely merely upon the size of the depression. While size may be one
of the most relevant factors to the decision, it is not always the sole
criteria. Instead, the court should determine whether there existed any
circumstances surrounding the accident which might have rendered the defect
more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would indicate. As such, the court
should view the intrinsic nature and quality of the defect to see if, for
example, it consists of the mere nonalignment of two horizontal slabs or
whether it consists of a jagged and deep hole. The court should also look at
other factors such as whether the accident occurred at night in an unlighted
area. Furthermore, the court should see if there is any evidence that other
persons have been injured on this same defect.’¿
“If the ‘court
determines ... sufficient evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds
may differ as to whether the defect is dangerous, the court may not rule ...
the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.’ Conversely, where ‘the only
evidence available on the issue of dangerousness does not lead to the
conclusion ... reasonable minds may differ, then it is proper for the court to
find ... the defect was trivial as a matter of law.’¿ 
“Moreover, ‘[a]s to what constitutes a
dangerous or defective condition no hard and fast rule can be laid down, but
each case must depend upon its own facts.’ (Citation.)”¿ 
(Kasparian, 56 Cal.App.4th at 26-28
(citations omitted)).¿¿¿ 
In Huckey v. City of Temecula
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104, the Court of Appeal, in affirming summary
judgment for the city, stated in part: “[a] condition is ‘not dangerous,’ if
‘the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the
plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition
was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property ... was used with due
care ...’ in a reasonably foreseeable manner.”¿ (Citation omitted &
emphasis added.)¿ 
The Huckey court explained: 
“In determining
whether a given walkway defect is trivial as a matter of law, the court should
not rely solely upon the size of the defect—in this case, on the depth or
height of the walkway depression or elevation—although the defect's size ‘may
be one of the most relevant factors’ to the court's decision.¿ The court should
consider other circumstances which might have rendered the defect a dangerous
condition at the time of the accident.¿¿ 
“These other circumstances or factors
include whether there were any broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the
defect, whether any dirt, debris or other material obscured a pedestrian's view
of the defect, the plaintiff's knowledge of the area, whether the accident
occurred at night or in an unlighted area, the weather at the time of the
accident, and whether the defect has caused any other accidents. In sum, ‘[a]
court should decide whether a defect may be dangerous only after considering
all of the circumstances surrounding the accident that might make the defect
more dangerous than its size alone would suggest.’¿ 
 
“The court's
analysis of whether a walkway defect is trivial involves as a matter of law two
essential steps. ‘First, the court reviews evidence regarding type and size of
the defect. If that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial defect, the court
considers evidence of any additional factors [bearing on whether the defect
presented a substantial risk of injury]. If these additional factors do not
indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person,
the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter of law ....’”
(Huckey, 37 Cal.App.5th at 1105
(citations omitted). 
More recently, in Stack v. City of
Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110, the Court of Appeal read Government
Code section 830.2 to require a more “holistic” approach, stating, “[a]lthough
we agree with the premise that the size of the defect is the primary
determinant of triviality, as discussed below, we modify the prevailing
two-step framework into a holistic, multi-factor analysis.”  That “holistic” approach involves considering
the size of the defect and surrounding circumstances, including the nature and
quality of the defect (including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks);
whether anything was obstructing or concealing the defect (such as an object,
debris, or other substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of
the incident; and whether the defect has caused other accidents. 
 
 IV.           
DISCUSSION
If there is no triable issue of material
fact, the party must show that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of
law, and the court must dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or
claims for damages, or issues of duty. (CCP § 437c) 

A.    First
Cause of Action: Vicarious Liability under Government Code sections 815.2 and
815.4
Conceded.

 
B.     Second
Cause of Action: Premises Liability
 
The
Trivial Defect Doctrine
 
1.      Size
of Defect 
The initial step in the analysis
established by Huckey involves the size of the defect. When the size of
the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch, courts have been reluctant to
find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law." (Fielder v.
City of Glendale, (1977), 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 726.) Courts have been more
likely to consider the defect to be trivial when it is under ½ inch. (See,
e.g., Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 927 [elevation
difference of under half an inch]; Fielder, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p.
724, fn. 4 [same].  However, courts have
found trivial defects at above ½ inch. 
(See Whiting v. City of National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d 163,
165-166 [ 69 P.2d 990] [elevation difference of a maximum of three-fourths of
an inch]; Nunez v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 753
[elevation difference of 3/4 of an inch to 11/16 of an inch]. A more “accurate
encapsulation” of the law, according to Stack, is that “when the size of
the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch the courts have been reluctant
to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law, i.e., that it is
minor or trivial.”¿ (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 112.)¿ “That
said, there is no firmly fixed arbitrary measurement in inches below which a
defect is trivial as a matter of law and above which it becomes a question of
fact whether or not the defect is dangerous.¿ This is because a court should
not rely solely upon the size of the defect ... although the defect’s size ‘may
be one of the most relevant factors’ to the court’s decision.”¿ (Id. at
pp. 112–113.)
 
Defendant argues that they are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law and moves the Court to dispose of Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for dangerous condition under Government Code § 835
because the size of the alleged defect renders it “trivial as a matter of law.”
(Motion, p. 10:19-21.) Defendant cites Beck v. City of Palo Alto¸ for
the proposition that that the size of the defect is only one circumstance to
determine whether the defect is dangerous. (Beck, 150 Cal. App. 2d. at
43-44.) The court held an alleged public way measuring one and seven-eights
(1.88) inch offset as trivial as a matter of law. ((Id., at 43-44.) The
plaintiff in Beck testified that she was not distracted as she
approached the defect, and that her view of the defect was unobstructed. (Id.)
Defendants also relied on Fielder v. City of Glendale which evaluated
the physical shape of the alleged defect, and held that “broken pieces, jagged
edges, hollowed out parts or other factors which would have allowed reasonable
minds to determine that the ‘defect’ was dangerous.” (Fielder, supra,
71 Cal.App.3d at p. 732.) Defendant compares the instant case to Huckey v.
City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal. App. 5th 1092 where a
1.2875-inch offset was deemed a trivial defect and the summary judgment in
favor of the City of Temecula was affirmed. (Motion, p. 10:13-22.) Defendant
moves for summary judgment because the subject defect was 1.312 inches in
height. (Id. p. 10:26-28.)
Defendants also relied on Fielder v.
City of Glendale which evaluated the physical shape of the alleged defect,
and held that “broken pieces, jagged edges, hollowed out parts or other factors
which would have allowed reasonable minds to determine that the ‘defect’ was
dangerous.” (Fielder, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 732.) Defendant
compares the instant case to Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.
App. 5th 1092 where a 1.2875-inch offset was deemed a trivial defect
and the summary judgment in favor of the City of Temecula was affirmed.
(Motion, p. 10:13-22.) As in Huckey, Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff
walked the site of the accident several times in the past, (2) the weather was
clear and sunny, (3) the sidewalk did not have any broken pieces or edges, and
(4) Plaintiff’s view of the alleged defect was unobstructed. (Id. p.
10:23-28.)
As in Huckey, Defendant argues that
(1) Plaintiff walked the site of the accident several times in the past, (2)
the weather was clear and sunny, (3) the sidewalk did not have any broken
pieces or edges, and (4) Plaintiff’s view of the alleged defect was
unobstructed. (Id. p. 10:23-28.)
 
2.      Aggravating
Factors
The Court next considers additional
factors.¿“Beyond size, additional factors courts typically consider in
assessing a sidewalk condition’s triviality as a matter of law are: the nature
and quality of the defect (including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks);
whether anything was obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an
object, debris, or other substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the
time of the incident; whether the defect has caused other accidents; and
plaintiff's familiarity with the area.” (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 115.)
 
Citing Huckey, Defendant argues
that no aggravating factors exist to deem the 1.312-inch sidewalk offset anything
other than a trivial defect. Defendant relies on Plaintiff’s testimony that (1)
Plaintiff walked the site of the accident several times in the past, (2) the
weather was clear and sunny, (3) the sidewalk did not have any broken pieces or
edges, and (4) Plaintiff’s view of the alleged defect was unobstructed. (Id.
p. 10:23-28.) 
Defendants also relied on Fielder v.
City of Glendale which evaluated the physical shape of the alleged defect,
and held that “broken pieces, jagged edges, hollowed out parts or other factors
which would have allowed reasonable minds to determine that the ‘defect’ was
dangerous.” (Fielder, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 732.) Defendant
compares the instant case to Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.
App. 5th 1092 where a 1.2875-inch offset was deemed a trivial defect
and the summary judgment in favor of the City of Temecula was affirmed.
(Motion, p. 10:13-22.) As in Huckey, Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff
walked the site of the accident several times in the past, (2) the weather was
clear and sunny, (3) the sidewalk did not have any broken pieces or edges, and
(4) Plaintiff’s view of the alleged defect was unobstructed. (Id. p.
10:23-28.)
Plaintiff presents evidence showing that
the Don Carlos Avenue defect at issue measured at 1.312 inches and presented a
dangerous condition at the time of Plaintiff’s fall. (Declaration of Philip L.
Rosescu, P.E., M.S., ¶¶ 7, 14, Figure 1.) Forensic Expert, Philip L. Rosescu
states that while walking, pedestrians tend to look at or just below the
horizon, and minor changes in elevation can fall outside of the normal
pedestrian gaze. (Id., ¶ 10.) Rosescu also states that the elevated
sidewalk would have been difficult for a pedestrian to perceive because the
subject uplift contained no warnings, contrasting paint, delineation or other
cues and indicators to make its existence conspicuous. (Id.)
Additionally, Rosescu declares that the sidewalk at issue did not conform with American
Society for Testing and Materials International (“ASTM”) ASTM F1637-13,
Standard Practice for Safe Walking Surfaces, which holds that changes over ½
inch shall be transitioned by means of a ramp. (Id. ¶ 11.) Rosescu
references Google Street View images to show that Defendant Glendale should
have been on notice of the dangerous condition for quite some time because
between 2011 and 2015, the area was repaved, and a fire hydrant was installed
across the street from the subject area.  (Id. ¶ 12.) Lastly, Rosescu cites
Defendant Glendale’s previously stated “practice, policy and procedure of the
City of Glendale to repair any defect in a sidewalk that is noticed by a city
employee regardless of the size of the uplift of the sidewalk.” (Id.; Ruzanna Poghosyan v. City of Glendale, Exhibit G, Deposition of Matthew Binder
32:9-19.)
 
After examining all the evidence, the
Court finds the displacement in question to be trivial as a matter of law.
First, the 1.312-inch displacement is just above the threshold where the Court
would hesitate to find it trivial. (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
112) Courts have found height differentials of up to one and one-half inches
trivial as a matter of law. (See, e.g., Barrett v. City of Claremont
(1953) 41 Cal.2d 70, 74 [in the absence of aggravating conditions, differential
of less than half an inch deemed trivial]; Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004)
122 Cal.App.4th 922 927 [elevation difference of under half an inch]; Fielder
v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 724, fn. 4 [same]; Nicholson
v. City of Los Angeles (1936) 5 Cal.2d 361, 367 [one and one-half inch
elevation difference]; Whiting v. City of National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d
163, 165-166 [ 69 P.2d 990] [elevation difference of a maximum of three-fourths
of an inch].)  
Second, there is no evidence of
aggravating factors.  Plaintiff presented
no evidence of any prior accident or fall at the location. Defendant states
that there is no evidence of prior accidents at the location. (Motion, p. 10:27-28.)
Defendant has also pointed out that Plaintiff’s own testimony admits that the
sidewalk did not have jagged edges or broken pieces. (Opposition, 3: 1-2.) Plaintiff
argues that whether something is jagged is up to interpretation, and that the
various photographs of the location depict including jagged edges on the
sidewalk. (Opposition, 2:11-25, 3:17-26.) On June 24, 2024, Rosescu inspected
and measured the subject defect, and deemed the defect to be dangerous in
nature due to the abrupt elevation. (Rosescu Decl., ¶¶ 8, 12.) However, Rosescu
makes no declaration as to aggravating factors such as jagged edges or broken
pieces. However, even in the photograph, the elevated asphalt pavement is
visible.  The evidence presented does not
establish that the elevated transition was obstructed or concealed.  Thus, the lack of aggravating factors weigh
in favor of finding that the alleged defect here is trivial.  In concert with the size of the defect, which
is 1.325 inches, the Court finds the defect to be trivial.
Notice
Plaintiff argues that Defendant had either
actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect.  Even assuming the defect on the road is not
trivial, the Court finds that Defendant was not put on actual or constructive
notice of the defect.
For liability under Gov. Code § 835(b), a
plaintiff must establish either actual or constructive notice on the part of
the public entity.  Failure to establish
notice is fatal to recovery. (Van Kempen v. Hayward Area Park, Recreation
& Park Dist. (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 822, 827.) To establish actual
notice, there must be evidence of the public entity’s actual knowledge of the
existence of the condition and that the entity knew or should have known of its
dangerous character. (Gov. Code § 835.2.)  There are several factors to consider when
determining if constructive notice existed, including whether the dangerous
condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time ((Gov.
Code § 835.2(b); State v. Superior Court of San Mateo County (1968) 263
Cal.App.2d 396, 400) to put the municipality on notice.  Prior accidents may also establish constructive
notice. (Higgins v. State (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 177, 188, abrogated on
other grounds Cornette v. Dept. of Trans. (2002) 26 Cal.4th 63
[plaintiff in dangerous condition roadway case must show that the accident rate
was statistically aberrant, otherwise no triable issue on notice exists].)
 
            Defendant denied having constructive
notice of the dangerous condition on the sidewalk prior to the date of the
incident. (Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One, No. 4, p. 3) In the motion
for summary judgment, Defendant does not argue lack of notice. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Bound Evidence, Exhibit 4.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed
to comply with its own policy of repairing sidewalk elevations exceeding a half
inch. (Opposition, p. 8-24:25.) Defendant has presented evidence from the
Public Works Maintenance Service Section, which maintains and repairs streets
and sidewalks, stating that between 2013 to January 18, 2022, no accidents or
injuries were reported to Defendant. (Decl. of Matthew Binder (“Binder Decl.”)
¶ 1.)

Plaintiff argues that the nature and
appearance of the defect gave the Defendant constructive notice of its
existence.  Plaintiff further argues that
constructive notice may also be established by evidence that a public entity
failed to undertake adequate precautions despite having reason to anticipate
that an as-yet-nonexistent dangerous condition would develop.  
The Court agrees that the undisputable
facts establish that the alleged condition was not sufficiently obvious to give
Defendant constructive notice, as a matter of law. The Court finds there are no
triable issues of material fact as to Defendant’s lack of constructive or
actual notice of the alleged dangerous condition. 
The Court grants summary judgment in favor
of Defendant.
 
            CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
            Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED.  Defendant to file a proposed
judgment with the Court within thirty days. 
The Court takes the motion to continue the trial off calendar as
moot.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order.
 