 Case Number:  23SMCV00843    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Lawrence Neumeister v. City of
West Hollywood, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV00843


Complaint Filed:


2-27-23           




Hearing Date:


6-18-24 


Discovery C/O:


3-31-25




Calendar No.:


19


Discovery Motion C/O:


4-14-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


4-28-25



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant City of West
Hollywood
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Lawrence
Neumeister (no written opposition filed)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant City of West Hollywood’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shows that the dangerous condition element of
Plaintiff’s cause of action cannot be established. Plaintiff does not prove the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the dangerous condition
element. 
 
            Defendant City of West Hollywood’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED. 
  
REASONING
            “A party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets
its initial burden of showing there are no triable issues of fact and the
moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if
the opposing party fails to file any opposition. The court's assessment of
whether the moving party has carried its burden—and therefore caused a
shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of the opposing party's papers.
Therefore, the burden on the motion does not initially shift as a result of what
is, or is not, contained in the opposing papers.” (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue]; Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden].) 
 
            In addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving
party are construed strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read. (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts
as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue of
material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of
the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
 
 
I.               
Defendants Meet Their Burden to Show that
Plaintiff cannot establish the Dangerous Condition Element of the cause of
action
 
            
            Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication,
he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if
not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(o)(2).) A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim. (Union
Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant
meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense
thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove the existence of a triable issue of
material fact, summary judgment or summary adjudication in favor of the
defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
            Plaintiff Lawrence Neumeister’s (“Neumeister”) lone cause
of action for Negligence is premised on Government Code 835. (See FAC, p. 3–5.)
Section 835 provides as follows: 
 
Except
as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a
dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the
injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous
condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was
incurred, and that either: 
 
(a)
A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or 
 
(b)
The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.


(Gov. Code, § 835.)
 
            To prevail on this type of claim, Neumeister must
establish four elements: (1) the existence of dangerous condition; (2)
proximate cause; (3) foreseeability of type of harm; and (4) negligence in the
creation of, or notice of, the dangerous condition. (See Frazier v. County
of Sonoma (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 454, 458.)
 
            Government Code § 830 defines a “Dangerous
condition” to mean “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.) “A public
entity is not liable for minor or trivial property defects that do not create a
substantial risk of injury when the property is used with due care.” (Castro
v. City of Thousand Oaks (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1457, citing Gov.
Code, § 835.2.) “The existence of a dangerous condition is ordinarily a
question of fact but can be decided as a matter of law if reasonable minds can
come to only one conclusion. (Id. at p. 1458.)
 
            “The rule which permits a court to determine “triviality”
as a matter of law rather than always submitting the issue to a jury provides a
check valve for the elimination from the court system of unwarranted litigation
which attempts to impose upon a property owner what amounts to absolute
liability for injury to persons who come upon the property.” (Ursino v. Big
Boy Restaurants (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 394, 399.)
 
            “Sidewalk elevations ranging from three-quarters of an
inch to one and one-half inches have generally been held trivial as a matter of
law.” (Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107,
collecting cases.) “The court's analysis of whether a walkway defect is trivial
involves as a matter of law two essential steps. First, the court reviews
evidence regarding type and size of the defect. If that preliminary analysis
reveals a trivial defect, the court considers evidence of any additional factors
[bearing on whether the defect presented a substantial risk of injury]. If
these additional factors do not indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous
to a reasonably careful person, the court should deem the defect trivial as a
matter of law.” (Id. at p. 1105.) Such other factors the courts may
consider are the following: "whether there were any broken pieces or
jagged edges in the area of the defect, whether any dirt, debris or other
material obscured a pedestrian's view of the defect, the plaintiff's knowledge
of the area, whether the accident occurred at night or in an unlighted area,
the weather at the time of the accident and whether the defect has caused any
other accident." (Ibid.)
 
            Defendant City of West Hollywood (the “City”) provides
declarations and evidence to show the subject sidewalk elevation was less than
one inch where and when the alleged Neumeister incident occurred. (SSUF, ¶¶ 12–17,
19–20; Ferrante–Alan Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7, 8 Ex. A, E, F; Frye Decl., ¶¶ 7, 8,
Ex. B; Wolfe Decl., ¶¶ 7–9, Ex. B–D.) The City declares that photographs taken
by Neumeister of the incident location show that “subject sidewalk uplift had
no jagged edges, cracking, nor broken pieces,” and Neumeister testified that
these photographs were accurate descriptions of the subject sidewalk at the
time of the incident. (SSUF, ¶¶ 11–13, 18; Ferrante-Alan Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7, Ex A
[Plaintiff's deposition, 31:3-33–33:8, 35:12-15], E; Frye Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. A,
B.) The City shows that Neumeister testified he did not did not have any
obstructions to his view before the incident and he could not recall whether
there was any debris or material on the ground when the incident occurred.
(SSUF, ¶¶ 9–10; Ferrante-Alan Decl. ¶ 3, Ex A [Plaintiff's deposition, 26:8-13,
35:23–36:1].) The City shows that Neumeister testified he had walked the route where
the subject sidewalk is located “approximately five to seven days a week, since
March 2020.” (SSUF, ¶¶ 4; Ferrante-Alan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A [Plaintiff's
Deposition, 18:1-19:3]. The City shows that Neumeister testified that the
incident occurred at “approximately 4:20 p.m,” providing evidence that the sun
had not set at the time of the subject incident. (SSUF, ¶¶ 5, 6; Ferrante-Alan
Decl., ¶¶ 3–4, Ex. A [Plaintiff's Deposition 17:13-19], B; City’s RJN.)
The City shows there they have not received any complaints related to the
sidewalk uplift at the subject location. (SSUF, ¶¶ 21–22; Collins Decl., ¶¶ 6,
7.)
 
            The City has met their burden to show that the sidewalk
uplift is trivial as a matter of law, and thus not a dangerous condition. The
burden now shifts to Neumeister to show an existence of disputed material facts
as to the dangerous condition element of his claim.  Neumeister did not provide any declarations or
evidence to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Thus, the
Court finds that summary judgment in favor of the City is proper. Evidence
shows the sidewalk uplift at issue was under one inch, thus a trivial defect,
and the additional factors did not present a substantial risk of injury. 
 
            The City’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 