  Case Number:  20STCV12059    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  STACEY A. STERBCOW, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  DAREX NABONG, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV12059  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 22, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Stacey A. Sterbcow (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Darex Nabong, Zarex Nabong, Antech Diagnostics (Doe 1), and Does 2 to 100 for damages arising from a motor vehicle collision.   Zarex Nabong and Antech Diagnostics (Doe 1) (collectively, “Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiff to submit to a subsequent deposition.  Any opposition to the motion was due on or before May 9, 2024. Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition on May 16, 2024, which the Court will consider in its discretion.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION Legal Standard CCP § 2025.610 states: Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.  Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken. Moreover, CCP §2025.290(a) provides, “Except as provided in subdivision (b), or by any court order, including a case management order, a deposition examination of the witness by all counsel, other than the witness' counsel of record, shall be limited to seven hours of total testimony. The court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.”   Discussion  Defendants provide that Plaintiff appeared for her deposition on January 27, 2023. Plaintiff testified that she had been involved in a subsequent accident, and the parties stipulated that Plaintiff would appear for a second deposition session after Plaintiff produced documentation regarding her health care treatment associated with the subsequent accident. In the interim, Plaintiff added Antech Diagnostics as a defendant, and Plaintiff’s counsel subsequently moved to be relieved as counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel provided he could not confirm Plaintiff’s second session, but did not serve any objection to the second session noticed for November 29, 2023. Plaintiff did not appear at the November 29, 2023 deposition. Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved was granted on February 1, 2024, and the notice of the ruling was not served until April 2, 2024. On March 15, 2024, Defendants re-noticed Plaintiff’s second deposition for March 29, 2024, and Plaintiff did not appear. Defense counsel avers they have attempted to contact Plaintiff directly to inquire about her nonappearance, but Plaintiff has not responded to date.  In opposition, Plaintiff disputes that she ever received notice of any deposition and contends she was facing significant personal challenges. While the Court understands the reasons why Plaintiff may not have been able to sit for deposition, this lawsuit initiated by her must move forward.  Accordingly, the Court finds good cause for the subsequent deposition of Plaintiff.  Defendants do not expressly provide how many hours Plaintiff had been previously examined in the moving papers, since CCP §2025.290(a) provides a seven-hour testimony limitation. Nonetheless, the Court has reviewed the excerpts of the January 27, 2023 deposition, which began at 10:12 a.m. and concluded at 2:50 p.m., evincing 4 hours and 38 minutes of testimony. (Mot. Exh. A.) Defendants did not request any additional time to conduct the subsequent examination. Thus, the motion will be granted, but subject to the remaining statutory time allotted.  As to the production of documents request in the Notice to the motion, Defendants do not set forth good cause for the production of any documents. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1) [“The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”].) Defendants do not set forth any specific facts to show there is good cause justifying the production of documents. Therefore, the motion is denied as to the request for production of documents.     Conclusion & Order Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel the second deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED as follows: Plaintiff is ordered to appear for her deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Defendants. The compelled deposition in connection with this Order shall not exceed 3 hours and 22 minutes of testimony. The parties must meet and confer to determine the date and time for the second deposition; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendants may unilaterally set the date and time for the deposition with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service).  III. SANCTIONS CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Here, there is no substantial justification for Plaintiff’s continual delay in prosecuting this matter and participating in the discovery process.  However, a court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)   Defendants are awarded $50 for the motion, and $60 for the motion filing fee.   Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to defendants Zarex Nabong and Antech Diagnostics, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $110, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 21st day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   