 Case Number:  21STCV09586    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PAUL MARTIN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SMART & FINAL STORES LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV09586  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S DEMURRER TO DEFENDANT’S ANSWER   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 22, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Paul Martin (“Plaintiff”) filed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Smart & Final Stores, LLC, Lincoln LT, Inc. (“Lincoln LT”), and Does 1 to 30 for damages arising from an alleged dangerous condition of property.  On April 23, 2024, Lincoln LT filed its Answer to the FAC. Plaintiff now demurs to Lincoln LT’s Answer, arguing affirmative defenses 1 through 21 fail to state facts sufficient to constitute an affirmative defense, and that the defenses are uncertain, ambiguous, and/or unintelligible. Lincoln LT opposes the demurrer, and Plaintiff filed a reply.   II. MEET AND CONFER Under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), before filing a demurrer, the objecting party shall meet and confer with the opposing party for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached to resolve the objections to the pleading. Lincoln LT contends Plaintiff’s counsel did not properly meet and confer, because Plaintiff’s counsel did not attempt to reach defense counsel in-person or by telephone and did not respond to the request for clarification and further meet and confers prior to filing the demurrer. In response, Plaintiff’s counsel provides there were extensive email communications to discuss the issues, up until defense counsel stopped emailing Plaintiff back.  The Court has reviewed the exhibits and finds Plaintiff did not meet and confer within the meaning of CCP § 430.41 as there were only attempts to communicate via email. A telephone call, video conference, or in person meeting is required. Although an insufficient meet and confer shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer, the Court will not consider the merits of Plaintiff’s demurrer until a meet and confer within the meaning of CCP § 430.41 is effectuated.   III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s demurrer is CONTINUED to _______________ in Department 31 of Spring Street Courthouse to provide the parties an opportunity to resolve the issues raised through meet and confer efforts. The parties are ordered to file a one-page brief no later than 5 court days prior to the continued hearing date detailing the meet and confer efforts, and whether the instant demurrer has been rendered moot either in whole or in part.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 21st day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  