  Case Number:  22STCV21083    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MELISSA PEREZ, as
  an Individual, and On Behalf of Herself and Other Aggrieved Employees, and On
  Behalf of the General Public as Private Attorneys General, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SPARC GROUP LLC dba NAUTICA, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 22STCV21083




Hearing Date:


November 19, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  APPROVAL OF PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL ACT SETTLEMENT



            
Background
On
June 29, 2022, Plaintiff Melissa Perez filed this action against Defendant SPARC
Group LLC dba Nautica. 
On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff Melissa Perez, as an Individual, and On Behalf of Herself and Other
Aggrieved Employees, and On Behalf of the General Public as Private Attorneys
General (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The
SAC alleges twelve causes of action, including a ninth cause of action for
violation of Labor Code sections 2698, et seq.
(“PAGA”). 
Plaintiff’s counsel states
that “the Parties agreed to fully resolve the issues between them, including a
PAGA Release as to Plaintiff and Aggrieved Employees.” (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff
now moves for approval of the Private Attorney General Act settlement. The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
A
superior court must “review and approve any settlement of any civil action
filed pursuant to this part.” (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd.
(s)(2).) 
The
Court notes that though there is no statutory or common law standard for
approval of a PAGA settlement, the standard used for approval of class action
settlements is instructive.
“[A] presumption of fairness exists where: (1) the
settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and
discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently;
(3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of
objectors is small.” ((Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.) The
last factor, small percentage of objectors, is inapplicable to PAGA claims. ((See Arias v. Superior
Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 984-985 [rejecting the argument that
representative actions under PAGA violate the due process rights of “nonparty
aggrieved employees who are not given notice of, and an opportunity to be
heard”].) Additional factors that are useful to consider include the
strength of a plaintiff’s case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely
duration of further litigation, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of
discovery completed, and the experience and views of counsel. ((See Kullar v. Foot
Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.)
The Court notes several defects with the motion for approval of PAGA
settlement here. 
First, it does not appear that Plaintiff filed any notice of motion. The
Court notes that pursuant to California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1112, subdivision (a), “[u]nless otherwise provided by the rules in
this division, the papers filed in support of a motion must consist of at least
the following: (1) A notice of hearing on the motion; (2) The motion
itself; and (3) A memorandum in support of the motion or demurrer.” In
addition, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
3.1110, subdivision (a), “[a] notice of motion must state in the opening
paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of
the order.” 
Second, the subject Settlement
Agreement and Release of PAGA Claims (herein, “Settlement Agreement”) attached
to Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration as Exhibit A does not appear to contain
any signature from Defendant. (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)   
 
Third, pursuant to Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (s)(2), “[t]he
superior court shall review and approve any settlement of any civil action
filed pursuant to this part. The proposed settlement shall be submitted to the
agency at the same time that it is submitted to the court.” Plaintiff does not
appear to provide evidence showing that the proposed settlement was submitted
to the LWDA. 
Fourth, the Settlement
Agreement provides that “[a]fter deducting the Plaintiff’s Counsel Payment and
Settlement Administration Costs, the remainder of the Total Settlement Payment
(the ‘PAGA Net Fund’) shall be allocated toward payment to the Labor &
Workforce Development Agency and PAGA Settlement Members.” (Zambrano
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 30.) However,
“PAGA Net Fund” does not appear to be a defined term (rather, the Settlement
Agreement defines “PAGA Fund”). (See Zambrano Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 9.) In addition, the Settlement
Agreement does not appear to specify the specific monetary amount of
Plaintiff’s counsel’s payment or the remaining “PAGA Net Fund.” 
Fifth, the Settlement
Agreement contains the capitalized term “Total Settlement Payment,” but such
term does not appear to be defined. In addition, the term “Individual Payment”
is referenced in the Settlement Agreement but does not appear to be defined. 
Sixth, Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting declaration provides that
“third-party administration expenses [are] up to $2,900.00.” (Zambrano Decl., ¶
13.) However, this does not appear to be consistent with the Settlement
Agreement, which provides that “[t]he Settlement Administrative Costs should
not exceed more than $3,500.00 (Three Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and Zero
Cents).” (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 29.) 

Seventh, Paragraph 13 of the Settlement Agreement provides that
“‘Released Claims’ shall mean any and all claims, whether known or unknown, to
recover civil penalties pursuant to PAGA for any violations alleged in the
Action, the LWDA Notice, or the Operative Complaint, or that could have been
alleged in the Action, the LWDA Notice, or the Operative Complaint, that are
based on the alleged meal and rest break, minimum wage, overtime compensation,
wage statement, unreimbursed business expenses and final pay violations,
and any resulting claim for penalties under PAGA alleged to have been violated
in the Action during the PAGA Period. Released Claims include, but are not
limited to, alleged violations by Defendant of the California
Labor Code sections 98.6, 201, 202, 203, 204, 226(a), 510, 1102.5, 1194, 1197,
1198, 1770- 1773, 2441, et seq.” (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 13,
emphasis added.) However, it does not appear that the SAC in this action or the
written notice to the LWDA mention any claim for unreimbursed business
expenses. (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
Eighth, pursuant to Labor Code section 2699,
subdivision (s)(3), “[a] copy of the superior court’s judgment in any civil
action filed pursuant to this part and any other order in that action that
either provides for or denies an award of civil penalties under this code shall
be submitted to the agency within 10 days after entry of the judgment or
order.” It does not appear that Plaintiff submitted any proposed order with the
instant motion. 
            Conclusion
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion for approval of Private Attorney General Act
settlement without prejudice.   
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  November 19, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court