 Case Number:  24NNCV01420    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
jane doe, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
arthur wuthong
  shi, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  24NNCV01420
 
Hearing
  Date:  January 17, 2025
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Jane
Doe (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on May 4, 2022, she carpooled with a group of
friends, which included Defendant Arthur Wuthong Shi (“Defendant”), to attend a
gathering at a friend’s house.  Plaintiff
alleges that she was a minor at the time of the incident.  She alleges that she did not consume alcohol,
but Defendant consumed alcohol while at the gathering.  Plaintiff alleges that while carpooling back,
Defendant proceeded to put his hand up her shirt before grabbing and fondling
her breasts.  She alleges that Defendant
then put his hands in her pants and began touching her vaginal area before
inserting his fingers into her vagina. 
Plaintiff alleges that during the incident, she was paralyzed by fear
and shock.  
The complaint, filed May 6, 2024, alleges
causes of action for: (1) sexual battery; (2) IIED; and (3) negligence.
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint, alleging the same three causes of action. 
On November 13, 2024, Defendant filed his
Cross-Complaint, alleging a single cause of action for defamation. On December
27, 2024, Defendant filed request for dismissal of his Cross-Complaint, which
was entered on the same day. 
B.     Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two
On December 20,
2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s 
further responses to Special
Interrogatories (“SROGs”), Set Two. The Court ordered Plaintiff to provide
complete responses within thirty (30) days of this order. The Court denied
sanctions in light of the defects in the moving papers. 
 
C.     Motion on Calendar

There are 4
discovery motions on calendar. 
On October 31,
2024, Defendant filed a (1) motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to
Document Demands, Set One (“RPDs”) (CRS 8943); (2) motion to compel Plaintiff’s
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, (“FROGs”) (CRS 5389);
motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to SROGs, Set One (CRS 2256);
and motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to SROGs, Set One (CRS 2189). In
connection with each motion, Defendant requests monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and her attorney of record, Jason A. Feazell and Shioda Langley &
Chang, LLP, in the amount of $3,660.00. 
Plaintiff filed
oppositions on January 6, 2025, and Defendant filed replies on January 10,
2025.[1]

 
DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Timeliness
A motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories and demand requests must be brought within 45 days of service
of the verified response, supplemental verified response, or on a date to which
the propounding and responding parties have agreed to in writing; otherwise,
the propounding party waives the right to compel further responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c).)
Here, Defendant’s four motions are timely
as Plaintiff served her responses on September 16, 2024, and Defendant filed
and served his motions on October 31, 2024, forty-five days later. 
 
B.    
Meet and Confer
“A motion [to compel further responses to
interrogatories and demand requests] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd.
(b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) Section 2016.040 states: “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”
Defendant attached to his motions the meet
and confer correspondences. (Declarations of Bin Li, ¶ 6; Ex. “E.”) Plaintiff
does not contend any motion should be denied due to inadequate meet and confer
efforts. 
 
C.    
Separate Statement 
Defendant has satisfied the separate
statement requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(2); 2031.310,
subd. (b)(3) [requiring separate statements for motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories and demand requests]; Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(2) and (3) [same]; Separate Statements in support of motions, filed
on December 31, 2024.)
 
D.   
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RPDs, Set One
Defendant requests an order the Plaintiff
provide further answers to RPDs, Set One, without objections, arguing that
Plaitiff’s responses are generic, fact-deficient, and bereft of the requested
information. 
Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the
motion, arguing that she served compliant responses to RPDs, Set One, on
September 16, 2024. 
RPDs, Set One, asks Plaintiff
to produce: 
1.     
All
DOCUMENTS (meaning writing as that term is defined by Evidence Code §250)
identified in responding party’s response to first set special interrogatories.
2.     
All
DOCUMENTS identified in responding party’s response to first set form
interrogatories.
(RPDs
Separate Statement.) 
Plaintiff responded with the following: 
1.     
Respondent
objects to the discovery on the following grounds: (1) The discovery is vague,
overbroad and ambiguous and forces this party to speculate as to the meaning of
the discovery request; (2) The discovery request seeks attorney client work
product and/or privilege; (3) the discovery request is vague as to time; (4)
the discovery request seeks a legal conclusion; (5) the discovery request seeks
information that is protected by third party privacy rights; (6) the discovery
request seeks information that is equally available to the propounding party;
(7) the request is burdensome, oppressive, calls for speculation as to meaning
of records; (8) the request seeks information that is not relevant and will not
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; (9) the request seeks duplicitous
information. However, without waiving said objections, Respondent responds as
follows: Respondent will comply and produce all responsive documents in
Respondent’s possession. See batestamp DOE 0001 to 0002. Discovery is ongoing,
and Respondent will continue to search for additional documents, thus
Respondent reserves the right to supplement responses.
2.     
Respondent
objects to the discovery on the following grounds: (1) The discovery is vague,
overbroad and ambiguous and forces this party to speculate as to the meaning of
the discovery request; (2) The discovery request seeks attorney client work
product and/or privilege; (3) the discovery request is vague as to time; (4)
the discovery request seeks a legal conclusion; (5) the discovery request seeks
information that is protected by third party privacy rights; (6) the discovery
request seeks information that is equally available to the propounding party;
(7) the request is burdensome, oppressive, calls for speculation as to meaning
of records; (8) the request seeks information that is not relevant and will not
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; (9) the request seeks duplicitous
information. However, without waiving said objections, Respondent responds as
follows: Respondent will comply and produce all responsive documents in
Respondent’s possession. See batestamp DOE 0001 to 0002. Discovery is ongoing,
and Respondent will continue to search for additional documents, thus
Respondent reserves the right to supplement responses.
(Ibid.)

Defendant’s motion to compel further
Plaintiff’s responses to RPDs, Set One, is GRANTED in light of Plaintiff’s
response that she will comply and produce all responsive documents in her
possession and that she will continue to search for additional documents and
then voluntarily supplement responses. Since the filing of this motion, Plaintiff
provided a  supplemental response, as
represented; however the response does not appear to be code compliant because
Plaintiff merely states regarding RPD No. 2 that “[she] did not identify any
documents in response to Form Interrogatories Set One Number 12.3.”
(Declaration of Jason A. Feazell (“Feazell Decl.”), ¶ 8.; Ex. “5”; Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.230 [“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party”].)
It appears that Plaintiff has produced two
pages in response to these interrogatories. Plaintiff should be reminded that
any failure to produce documents that were in her possession, custody and
control will result in their exclusion at trial. 
E.    
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One
Defendant requests an order the Plaintiff
provide further answers to FROGs, Set One, No. 12.1(d), without objections,
arguing that Plaitiff’s responses are generic, fact-deficient, and bereft of
the requested information. 
Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the
motion, arguing that she served compliant responses to FROGs, Set One, on
September 16, 2024. 
            FROG No. 12.1(d) asks Plaintiff
to: “State the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: d. who
YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except
for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034).” (FROGs
Separate Statement.)
            Plaintiff responded with the
following: 
Respondent objects to the discovery on the
following grounds: (1) The discovery is vague, overbroad and ambiguous and
forces this party to speculate as to the meaning of the discovery request; (2)
The discovery request seeks attorney client work product and/or privilege; (3)
the discovery request is vague as to time; (4) the discovery request seeks a
legal conclusion; (5) the discovery request seeks information that is protected
by third party privacy rights; (6) the discovery request seeks information that
is equally available to the propounding party; (7) the request is burdensome,
oppressive, calls for speculation as to meaning of records; (8) the request
seeks information that is not relevant and will not lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence; (9) the request seeks duplicitous information. However,
without waiving said objections, Respondent responds as follows:
Respondent Jane Doe, who can be contacted
through counsel of record. 
Arthur Wutong Shi. Contact through counsel
of record. 
Lirui Lan, (561)507 7091, 9468 Mcaneeny
Court, Wellington Florida 33414. 
Yi Fang, 10501 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles,
unit 1505; (310)901-1398. 
Peilin Yu, contact information unknown to
Respondent 
JiaYi Chen, contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Yi Leng, contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Li Zhang, contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Jason, contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Rose, contact information unknown to
Respondent
Chuanjing Yang, contact Respondent’s
parent through Respondent’s counsel of record. Leon Lu/Lo contact information
unknown to Respondent 
Weifan Lin contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Giselle Han contact information unknown to
Respondent 
Discovery is ongoing, and Respondent
reserves the right to supplement responses.
(Ibid.)

Notwithstanding objections, Plaintiff
represents that she “continued to diligently search for further contact
information of certain other previously named persons whose contact information
was unknown to Plaintiff, and voluntarily supplemented [her responses] on
January 5, 2025.” (Opp., p. 5; Feazell Dec., ¶ 8.; Ex. “5.”) The Court finds Plaintiff’s
responses sufficient. Contrary to Defenant’s arguments, FROGs No. 12.1(d) only
asked Plaintiff for information regarding persons with knowledge of the
incident. It did not ask for information regarding persons in attendance at the
party only Therefore, Defendant’s motion to compel further Plaintiff’s
responses to FROGs, Set One, is DENIED.
 
F.     
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One (CRS 2256 and 2189)
Defendant requests an order the Plaintiff
provide further answers to SROG, Set One, Nos. 10 and 11 without objections,
arguing that Plaitiff’s responses are generic, fact-deficient, and bereft of
the requested information. 
Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the
motion, arguing that she served compliant responses to SROGs, Set One, on
September 16, 2024. 
SROG No. 10 asks Plaintiff
to:
IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS (meaning writing as
that term is defined by Evidence Code §250). In the context of IDENTIFYING
DOCUMENTS, meaning to state facts sufficient such that a Notice to Produce or a
Subpoena Duces Tecum may issue) that REFER TO (meaning being, or tending to
prove or disprove) the sexual battery alleged in the operative complaint. This
category specifically includes reports to law enforcement or other governmental
entity, or the human relations department of responding party's employer. This
category also specifically includes correspondence between responding party and
all other persons via social media or electronic messaging.
(SROGs
Separate Statement CRS 2256.)
            Plaintiff responded with the
following:
Respondent objects to the discovery on the
following grounds: (1) The discovery is vague, overbroad and ambiguous and
forces this party to speculate as to the meaning of the discovery request; (2)
The discovery request seeks attorney client work product and/or privilege; (3)
the discovery request is vague as to time; (4) the discovery request seeks a
legal conclusion; (5) the discovery request seeks information that is protected
by third party privacy rights; (6) the discovery request seeks information that
is equally available to the propounding party; (7) the request is burdensome,
oppressive, calls for speculation as to meaning of records; (8) the request
seeks information that is not relevant and will not lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence; (9) the request seeks duplicitous information. However,
without waiving said objections, Respondent responds as follows: Respondent is
still searching for any responsive documents, thus documents responsive to this
question are currently unknown. Discovery is ongoing, and Respondent reserves
the right to supplement responses.
(Ibid.)
SROG No. 11 asks Plaintiff
to:
IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that REFER TO the
intentional infliction of emotional distress alleged in the operative
complaint. This category specifically includes reports to law enforcement or
other governmental entity, or the human relations department of responding
party's employer.
(SROGs
Separate Statement CRS 2189.)
Plaintiff responded with the following:
Respondent objects to the discovery on the
following grounds: (1) The discovery is vague, overbroad and ambiguous and
forces this party to speculate as to the meaning of the discovery request; (2)
The discovery request seeks attorney client work product and/or privilege; (3)
the discovery request is vague as to time; (4) the discovery request seeks a
legal conclusion; (5) the discovery request seeks information that is protected
by third party privacy rights; (6) the discovery request seeks information that
is equally available to the propounding party; (7) the request is burdensome,
oppressive, calls for speculation as to meaning of records; (8) the request
seeks information that is not relevant and will not lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence; (9) the request seeks expert information. However, without
waiving said objections, Respondent responds as follows: Respondent does not
possess any documents related to this interrogatory. Discovery is ongoing, and
Respondent reserves the right to supplement responses.
(Ibid.)
As to both responses, Plaintiff’s
objections are overruled. As to SROG No. 10, Plaintiff responds that she “is
still searching for any responsive documents, thus documents responsive to this
question are currently unknown. Discovery is ongoing, and Respondent reserves
the right to supplement responses.” (SROGs Separate Statement CRS 2256.)
This is not a response. Plaintiff  must
answer to the extent possible, even if investigation continues and requires
later supplement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (b).) As to SROG No. 11,
Plaintiff responds that she “does not possess any documents related to this
interrogatory. Discovery is ongoing, and Respondent reserves the right to
supplement responses.” (SROGs Separate Statement CRS 2189.) This is not
a response also. “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220,
subd. (c).) Therefore, Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses
to SROGs, Set One, are GRANTED.
 
G.   
Sanctions
In connection with each motion, Defendant
requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorneys of record in
the amount of $3,660.00. Defendant’s requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED
in light of the denial of Defendant’s FROGs motion and the defects in the
moving papers of each motion. Namely, the exhibits are mislabeled, and
Defendant failed to attached proof of service of the disputed discovery.
Further, Defendant filed two separate SROGs motions rather than one.  
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions
against Defendant in amount of $1,800 for the FROGs motion, $2,700 for the RPDs
motion, and $2,700 for the SROGs motions combined, arguing that opposing
counsel did not make any reasonable effort to clearly explain the issues during
meet and confer. However, the meet and confer correspondence attached as
Exhibit E to Defendant’s counsel’s declarations, reflect several meet and confer
efforts where Plaintiff’s counsel could have sought clarification. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are DENIED.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Motion
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Document Demands, Set One is GRANTED.

Motion
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is DENIED.

Motion
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(CRS 2256) is GRANTED.
Motion
to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One (CRS 2189)
is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff
is ORDERED to provide complete responses within thirty (30) days of this
order.
Requests
for sanctions are DENIED as to each party. 
Defendant.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 
DATED: January 17, 2025                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  
 


