 Case Number:  22TRCV00362    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    May 22, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV00362
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Catherine M. Herrera v. Darlene Agarwala,
et al.   
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,
Darlene Agarwala, Pronita Ann Agarwala, Stephen Miro, Gregory Mollner, and
Sabina Agarwala-Miro 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Plaintiffs, Paul Herrera and Catherine M. Herrera 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       December 16, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul
Herrera 
                                                (2) Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul Herrera
                                                (3) Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul Herrera 
                                                (4) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents 
                                                (5) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted 
                                                (6) Defendants’
Motion to be Relieved from Order Deeming Requests for Admission as Admitted
(7) Plaintiff’s  Requests
for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1-3) The Court will hear
argument by Plaintiff, Paul Herrera is in response to Mr. Stein’s May 20, 2024 declaration
of issues remaining in dispute after the May 17 amended responses as to the RFAs,
interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents.  Monetary sanctions to be determined after the
oral argument on the requests asserted by Mr. Stein to be remaining is dispute
                                                (4) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents is mooted
                                                (5) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is mooted.
                                                (6) Defendants’ unopposed
Motion to be Relieved from Order Deeming Requests for Admission as Admitted is
GRANTED
                                                (7) Plaintiff’s
Requests for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,575
 
¿I.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Darlene Agarwala Propounded
Discovery 
¿¿ 
Per the supplemental declaration outlining
the remaining discovery issues in dispute, Jay Stein indicates that on Friday
May 17, 2024, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Paul Herrera served second amended
responses to the form interrogatories and special interrogatories at issue.
Previously, on May 3, 2024, Defense counsel indicates that Paul Herrera served
amended responses to the requests for admission. However, Stein indicates that
no amended responses have been served regarding the Inspection Demands. On May
20, 2024, Mr. Stein notes that he sent a further meet and confer email to Plaintiff’s
counsel summarizing the insufficiencies of the responses. The responses Mr.
Stein contends to still remain at issue and as to which the Court will take
oral argument at the hearing are as follows: 
 
1.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 39 
2.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 45
3.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 51 
4.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 57 
5.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 63 
6.    
Special
Interrogatory No. 69
7.    
Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1
8.    
Request
for Admission No. 20
9.    
Inspection
Demand Nos. 1-28.
 
As to monetary sanctions sought by
Defendants against Herrera, the Court tentatively will award monetary sanctions
against Mr. Herrera in an amount to be determined after the argument on the issues
remaining in dispute.
 
 
Paul Herrera’s Propounded
Discovery
 
            Plaintiff, Paul Herrera has also
filed his Motion to Compel initial answers to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents as well as to Deem
Request for Admission as Admitted. As noted in the factual section, after
numerous extensions, per Plaintiff’s moving papers Defendants nonetheless
failed to respond to any of the propounded discovery in a timely manner. 
 
            In Defendants’ opposition brief they
make procedural challenges. First, they argue that Paul Herrera is the
individual to file the current motion, but that Catherine Herrera was the one
who propounded the responses. Here, this Court is not persuaded by this
argument. Further, as noted by all parties due to prior filings, Catherine
Herrera was a Plaintiff in the matter only in her capacity as trustee to the
Jan Agarwala Trust. Paul Herrera was subsequently substituted in as trustee
when he became the Plaintiff with no beneficial interest. Accordingly, the Court’s
view is that Paul has standing to move to compel Catherine’s discovery
requests.
 
            Next, Defendants argue this motion
is improper because it attempts to combine ten (10) motions into one. The Court
is again, unpersuaded. 
 
            Defendants also argue that the
motions are moot as each responding party has served responses to discovery. The
Court is persuaded by the mootness argument. 
Of course, the mooting of the consolidated motion to compel original
responses does not negate the monetary sanctions also requested in the consolidated
motion since Plaintiff seemingly was required to bring this motion in order to obtain
responses which is a form of discovery misuse. 
 As to the Requests for Admission,
Plaintiff has filed a non-opposition to Defendants’ subsequently filed a Motion
for Relief from the deeming admitted of the previously unresponded-to RFAs. This
Court has reviewed this motion, and although it is filed and heard before an
order deeming RFAs as Admitted was even filed, this Court notes that Defendants
have indicated this tardiness in serving responses was due to excusable
neglect. The Court finds Defendants’ arguments to be sound, and notes that Defendants
have successfully argued the Relief motion. As such, the Court finds that,
except as to sanctions, the RFA motion is also mooted. 
 
            Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff’s
moving papers seek from this Court, an order imposing evidentiary, issue,
and/or terminating sanctions. The Court does not find reason to do so,
especially since Plaintiff himself has filed a non-opposition to relieve
Defendants from a future order deeming RFAs as Admitted.   The Court does, however, look at the monetary
sanctions requested by Plaintiff. Plaintiff has indicated that he is seeking
monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,000 as against Defendants and/or
Defendants’ counsel. This amount is supported by the Declaration of Monica E.
Amboss (“Amboss Decl.”), which indicates that Plaintiff included (and will
incur) fees for ten (10) hours of legal work by Amboss’s of counsel, David
Fleck, charged at his customary rate of $400 per hour, as well as a $75
e-filing fee. This Court instead awards $2,575 in monetary sanctions to
Plaintiff as against Defendants and/or Defendants’ counsel to be paid on or
before June 12, 2024. 
 
            The Court also tentatively
awards monetary sanctions in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff Paul
Herrera, but will rule on the amount of the same after oral argument on the discovery
requests that Ms. Stein’s May 20, 2024 Declaration contends to remain in dispute.  