  Case Number:  21TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    May 22, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00666
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sebastian
Medvei v. Dominique Nikko, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Westmoreland
                                                Plaintiff, Sebastian
Medvei 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei
                                                Defendants,
Westmoreland
                                                
TRIAL DATE:                           None set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Westmoreland’s Motion for
Sanctions as it relates to his previously denied Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories 
                                                (2)
Westmoreland’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents 
                                                (3)
Westmoreland’s Motion to Compel the in-person Deposition of Plaintiff,
Sebastian Maximilian Medvei
(4) Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One
(5) Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (6)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
Two
                                                (7)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. 
                                                (8)
Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary Sanctions
                                                
 
 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     The Court will hear from Plaintiff’s
counsel her response to Mr. Westmoreland’s assertion that she refused to meet
and confer or to schedule a time to meet and confer on the Court’s directive to
narrow the scope of the discovery disputes. 
The number and perseverance of such disputes are disproportionate to the
relatively modest amount in controversy here. 
The Court is inclined to order both counsel to attend an IN-PERSON meet
and confer session with the Court on a date to be decided at the hearing on May
22.  Some citations for both sides to
consider are as follows:
 
“For decades, our profession has given lip service to civility.
All we have gotten from it is tired lips. We have reluctantly concluded lips
cannot do the job; teeth are required. In this case, those teeth will take the
form of sanctions.” (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 267, 293.)
 
“The
absence of civility displayed by some practitioners heightens stress and
debases the legal profession. Those attorneys who allow their personal
animosity for an opposing counsel or an opposing party to infect a case damage
their reputations and blemish the dignity of the profession they have taken an
oath to uphold.” (Crawford v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1266.)
 
 