 Case Number:  23TRCV02781    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 22 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02781  CASE NAME:                        Joseph Escobar v.  Centinela Valley Union High School District, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Centinela Valley Union High  School    RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Joseph Escobar  TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.    MOTION:                             (1) Demurrer                                                  (2)  Motion to Strike                                                  Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED                                                 (2)  Motion to Strike is MOOTED in part and DENIED in part.                  I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual   On August 23,  2023, Plaintiff, Joseph Escobar (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants, Centinela Valley Union High School District, Brandon Banales, and  DOES 1 through 100.  After the Court  sustained a demurrer to the original complaint, on February 20, 2024, Plaintiff  filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action (1) Statutory  Liability – Negligence/Negligent Supervision; (2) Statutory Liability –  Negligent Hiring/Retention/Supervision/Training; (3) Statutory Liability –  Breach of Mandatory Duties; (4) Assault; (5) Battery; and (6) Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress.   Defendant,  Centinela Vally Union High School District (“District”) now files its second  demurrer and motion to strike, this time directed at the FAC.     B. Procedural    On March 20, 2024, the District filed their demurrer  and motion to strike. On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition addressing  both motions. On May 14, 2024, the District filed a reply brief.    II. GROUNDS FOR MOTIONS               Defendant District demurs to  the FAC on the grounds that it argues the First, Second, and Third, causes of  action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against  District, and are uncertain, vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible.                Further, District  seeks to strike allegations relating to the first cause of action as well as  prayer of relief including prejudgment interest.   III. ANALYSIS      A.     Demurrer    Legal Standard    A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only  allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that  might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.  v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿  ¿¿  A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿    Except as otherwise provided by statute, “[a] public entity  is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or  omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.”   (Gov. Code § 815(a).)  “[T]his section ‘abolished all common law or  judicially declared forms of liability for public entities, except for such  liability as may be required by the federal or state Constitution. Thus, in the  absence of some constitutional requirement, public entities may be liable only  if a statute declares them to be liable’ [Citation.]”  (Becerra v.  County of Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1457.)  Consequently,  “public entities may be liable only if a statute declares them to be  liable.”  (Tuthill v. City of San Buenaventura (2014) 223  Cal.App.4th 1081, 1088 (emphasis in the original).)  It has been  established that there is no liability for California governmental entities in  the absence of an express statute or constitutional provision creating or  accepting liability. (Tolan v. State of California (1979) 100  Cal.App.3rd 980, 986.)  It has been recognized that it is impermissible to  sue a public entity for common law negligence. (Torres v. Department of  Corrections and Rehabilitation (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 844,  850.)      Moreover, “to state a cause of action [for government tort  liability] every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must be  pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.”   (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792,  802.)      Discussion                Here, just as District argued in its previous demurrer to  the original complaint, District again argues that Plaintiff’s First, Second,  and Third causes of action for: (1) Statutory Liability – Negligence/Negligent  Supervision; (2) Statutory Liability – Negligent Hiring/Retention/ Supervision/Training;  and (3) Statutory Liability – Breach of Mandatory Duty fail to state sufficient  facts to constitute a cause of action against district and are uncertain,  vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible.    Pleading Standards – First and Second  Causes of Action    Again,  Defendant District contends that Plaintiff’s FAC lacks the proper pleading  standards for the negligence-based causes of action. As this Court noted in its  last tentative ruling,  ordinarily, to  state a cause of action for general negligence, Plaintiff must allege: (1)  existence of a duty; (2) breach of that duty; (3) injury to Plaintiff caused by  the breach; and (4) actual damages. (Romero v. Los Angeles Rams (2023)  91 Cal.App.5th 562, 567.) “However, because under the Tort Claims Act all  governmental tort liability is based on statue…to state a cause of action  against a public entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory  liability must be pleaded with particularity.” (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid  Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)    As to the  first cause of action for negligence/negligent supervision, this Court notes  that as against a public entity, liability must be authorized by statute. (Eastburn  v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179.) Here,  Plaintiff’s FAC alleges generally, California Government Code Sections 815,  815.2-815.6, 820, 830, 835, 835.2, 840, 840.2 and/or 840.4, as well as  California Education Code, sections 48200, 32280, 8200, 44807, 44808, just as  Plaintiff did in his original complaint (FAC, ¶¶ 23, 26, & 27.) Further, as  this Court noted in its previous tentative ruling, that school districts and their  employees have general duties to supervise the conduct of children on school  grounds during school sessions, school activities, recesses, and lunch periods.  (Iverson v. Muroc Unified School Dist. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 218.) Here,  Plaintiff alleges, again, that as part of the Government Code requirement of  stating liability under the statute, that District violated California  Education Code, sections 44807 and 44808. (FAC, ¶ 27.) However, the Court still  finds insufficiency with the causes of action based on negligence as they are  not plead with the requisite particularity.    The Court appreciates the parties providing more precedent  in their moving and opposition papers this time around. Particularly, Defendant  cites to Jennifer C. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2008) 168  Cal.App.4th 1320 (“Jennifer C.”). There, the Second District Court of  Appeal noted that “[g]enerally speaking, the absence of prior similar tortious  conduct is one factor pointing to the absence of negligence supervision.” (Jennifer  C., 168 Cal.App.4th at 1328.) Further, “[w]hen an injury occurs despite a  defendant’s efforts to provide security or supervision, it is relatively easy  to claim that, ipso facto, the security or supervision provided was  ineffective. Without more, such claims fail.” (Thompson v. Sacramento  Unified School Dist. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1352, 1370.) However, here,  this Court does not believe that Plaintiff as provided “more”.    In this Court’s previous tentative ruling, it cited  to Forgnone v. Salvadore Union Elementary School Dist. (1940) 41  Cal.App.2d 423 (“Forgnone”), where the Third District decided an action  that was brought after a student suffered injuries sustained by a fellow  student when the fellow student twisted her arm during an intermission of  school, while students were eating their lunch in a school room. The plaintiff  in Forgnone further alleged that no teacher or supervisor was present in  the school room when the accident occurred – something that was required by  law. The complaint also alleged the adoption of a uniform rule by the state  board of education with respect to the supervision of pupils, which provides in  part that: “where special playground supervision is not provided, teachers  shall supervise the conduct…of the pupils of their classes in the school, or on  the school grounds during intermission and before and after school. The Court  determined that this was sufficient to allege a cause of action for negligence  because had the supervisor been present in the school room where the students  were eating their luncheons, it would be expected that she would prevent the  students from engaging in rough and dangerous scuffling.    However, the Court in Forgnone also  distinguished the case of Weldy v. Oakland High School Dist. (1937) 19  Cal.App.2d 429 where the trial judge had sustained a demurrer to the complaint  for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  negligence against a football supervisor. In Weldy, an accident occurred  in the course of a game when a student threw a bottle and struck the plaintiff.  The Forgnone court noted that there, it is apparent that even though the  supervisor was present he could not have been expected to be all over the field  at once or to anticipate that some lawless student would recklessly throw a  bottle into the crowd of spectators.    Here, Plaintiff’s opposition brief cites to the same  allegations this Court found to be insufficient in the original demurrer. This  Court notes that Plaintiff’s FAC does address some of this Court’s previous concerns.  For example, the FAC has added where the alleged attack took place and at what  time of day it occurred. The FAC indicates that Plaintiff was in and about the  front of the school, on school grounds in and about the end of the school day  waiting for someone to pick him up. (FAC, ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff further  alleges that at the time of the incident, students were coming out of the  school and preparing to exit campus, and that school personnel and security  were in and about the front of the school where Plaintiff was waiting for his  ride and where other students, including Defendant Brandon Banales, were  congregated and walking in and about the front area of campus. (FAC, ¶¶ 9-10.)  However, the issue this Court finds with Plaintiff’s FAC is that Plaintiff is  alleging that school personnel, including security were stationed in this  location due to previous incidents of violence. (FAC, ¶¶ 10-16.) Under the  precedents cited to by this Court, Forgnone would be inherently  distinguishable from Plaintiff’s allegations here based on the presence (here)  versus the absence there as to school personnel and security present in the  location where the alleged injury occurred. Further, as to Weldy, the  District cannot be expected to monitor every inch of the school property in  anticipation that some lawless student would have allegedly attacked Plaintiff.         Thus, if  Plaintiff is alleging that the security was insufficient, or lacked  insufficiency or whether Plaintiff is alleging that more security was  necessary, Plaintiff would be required to prove heightened foreseeability. California  law requires landowners to maintain land in their  possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.  (Ann M. v.  Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).)   The liability of landowners for injuries to people on their property is  governed by general negligence principles.  (Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1407 (Pineda).) The existence of a  legal duty is a question for the court to determine, and “foreseeability is a  ‘crucial factor’ in determining the existence and scope of a legal duty.”   (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann  M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 674, 676 (Delgado).) However, a high  degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a land owner’s duty of  care includes the hiring of security guards.   In Ann M, the California Supreme Court noted that “the requisite degree  of foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior  similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises.  To hold  otherwise would be to impose an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect,  would force landlords to become the insurers of public safety, contrary to well  established policy in this state.”  (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p.  679, footnote omitted.)  “Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of  prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably  foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and does not  require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal incidents.  (Delgado,  supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 245.)    The FAC fails to allege,  sufficiently, that the District had heightened foreseeability due to prior  similar criminal incidents. Plaintiff has alleged “there had been numerous past  incidents of violence on the campus and in and about the area where Plaintiff  was waiting to be picked up” (FAC, ¶ 11); that “Defendants were on notice from  numerous past incidents of violence that students, including Plaintiff were in  need of protection from said violence” (FAC, ¶ 12); “[t]hat violence on the  school campus and grounds, during and after school was common place” (FAC, ¶  13); “[t]hat Defendants were on notice from numerous past incidents of violence”  (FAC, ¶ 14); “[t]hat Defendants were on notice that Defendant Brandon Banales  was prone to violence against other students and likely to carry a weapon on  his person that was highly foreseeable he would use such weapon in and attack  another student including Plaintiff” (FAC, ¶ 15); and “[t]hat Defendants were  on notice that Defendant Brandon Banales posed a highly foreseeable threat of  violence towards other students while on campus and that if not closely  monitored and supervised would attack another student in a confrontation.”  (FAC, ¶ 16.)   Despite these allegation, Plaintiff  fails to allege the prior incidents, when they occurred, where they occurred,  etc., in order for this Court to be able to determine whether the District and  school should have had heightened foreseeability sufficient so to warrant more  and/or better security, or to take measures regarding Brandon Banales in  particular.   Such more detailed allegations  are needed to determine whether prior incidents were similar enough to  determine whether heightened foreseeability applies. Without more, Plaintiff is  unable to maintain his First or Second causes of action because they do not  meet the pleading requirements. Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the First  and Second causes of action. Plaintiff is given twenty (20) days leave to amend  his pleading.     Statutory Liability – Breach of  Mandatory Duties               Further,  Defendant District again argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for  Breach of Mandatory Duties fails to allege sufficient facts and is uncertain. As  noted by this Court, “[a] public entity is not  liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of  the public entity or a public employee or any other person” except as provided  by statute. (Govt. Code § 815(a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist.  (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) When public entity liability is predicated on the  alleged failure to comply with a mandatory statutory duty, “[t]he gateway to  recovery is Government Code section 815.6, which provides: ‘Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty  imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a  particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that  kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge that duty....’ Before the  state will be required to confront a rebuttable presumption of negligence  [citations], plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) the statute which was  violated imposes a mandatory duty, (2) the statute was intended to protect  against the type of harm suffered, and (3) breach of the statute's mandatory  duty was a proximate cause of the injury suffered.” (Braman v. State of  California (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 344, 348–349.)                Specifically, the District contends  that Plaintiff fails to allege a “training” statute. This court notes that  school districts and their employees have general duties to supervise the  conduct of children on school grounds during school sessions, school  activities, recesses, and lunch periods. (Iverson v. Muroc Unified School  Dist. (1995) Cal.App.4th 218.) However, Plaintiff – as noted by Defendant  District- fails to allege the statute imposing the claimed mandatory duty, and  allegations that show such a statute was intended to protect against the type  of harm suffered, and that the breach of the mandatory duty was a proximate  cause of Plaintiff’s injury. As such, the third cause of action is sustained on  demurrer. Plaintiff is provided twenty (20) days leave to amend.                The Court notes that some of  Plaintiff’s original pleading of a dangerous condition of public property has  been incorporated into other causes of action.   However,  courts have consistently refused to characterize harmful third party conduct as  a dangerous condition—absent some concurrent contributing defect in the  property itself. (Hayes v. State of California (1974) 11 Cal.3d 469,  472.) Our Supreme Court noted that the basis for liability must include “some  physical feature of the property.” (Ibid.)  A lack of human supervision and protection is not a deficiency in  the physical characteristic of public property capable of being a “dangerous  condition,” as required to support a public entity’s liability as a property  owner for injuries sustained on the property. (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008)  161 Cal.App.4th 1340.) As such, the demurrer is sustained as to any mention of  dangerous condition as well. The Court recommends Plaintiff review this Court’s  analysis if/when Plaintiff files an amended pleading.     B.     Motion to  Strike               Here, District  Defendant seeks to strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC relating to the first  cause of action as well as Plaintiff’s prayer of relief indicating “…plus  prejudgment interest.” As this Court has SUSTAINED the first, second, and third  causes of action on demurrer (as noted above), this Court notes that the  paragraphs District Defendants are seeking to strike are mooted. Further, as to  the prayers of relief as they may relate to other causes of action not raised  on demurrer are DENIED.     IV.  CONCLUSION    For the foregoing reasons,  Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety. Further, Defendant’s Motion  to Strike is MOOTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff will be GRANTED with  twenty (20) days leave to amend.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.  