  Case Number:  22STCV00373    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MALENA GURCINAS NICOLINI,  
  
        
  vs.
 
EGL PROPERTIES, INCORPORATED.


 Case
  No.:  22STCV00372
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 8, 2024



 
Plaintiff Malena
Gurcinas Nicolini’s unopposed motion to confirm settlement is granted.  

 
Plaintiff
Malina Gurcinas Nicolini (“Nicolini”) (“Plaintiff”) moves unopposed to obtain
approval and confirmation of settlement agreements in the instant matter.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §128; Lab.
Code §§2699 et seq.)
 
Background
Plaintiff
filed her initial complaint (“Complaint”) against Defendant EGL Properties,
Incorporated (“EGL”) (“Defendant”) on January 5, 2022.  Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on June 1, 2022.  Plaintiff filed
the operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) on August 8, 2022, asserting
five causes of action against Defendant: (1) violation of
Labor Code §233; (2) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (3) violation of
Labor Code §98.6; (4) violation of Labor Code §226; and (5) Civil PAGA
Penalties (Lab. Code §2698) arising from her alleged performance of various
apartment management tasks throughout her employment by Defendant.  (See FAC ¶12.)
On May
24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement.  On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion.  As of the date of this hearing
no opposition has been filed.
 
Discussion
Plaintiff and Defendant (collectively, “Parties”) reached a
settlement of individual claims in this case and representative PAGA claims.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exhs. A, B.)  Plaintiff requests the Court issue an order
approving the entire settlement.
Labor Code §2699(l)(2)
provides, as follows: “The superior court shall review and approve any
settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this part. The proposed
settlement shall be submitted to the [Labor & Workforce Development Agency
(“LWDA”)] at the same time that it is submitted to the court.”  
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff submitted evidence she complied with Labor Code §2699(l)(2) by submitting a copy of the
Settlement and instant motion to the LWDA on May 30, 2024.  (Decl. of Navas ¶3.)    
On March 22, 2022, after commencing her lawsuit, in violation of
California Labor Code §2699.3, Plaintiff provided Defendant with written notice
of her intent to assert claims under PAGA and the basis for those claims.  (SAC ¶48.)  On June 3, 2022, Plaintiff amended her PAGA
notice and served Defendant and the LWDA.  (SAC ¶48.)
On November 3, 2023, the parties agreed to resolve the action
during a mediation with Joseph Lovretovich, and executed a long-form agreement
between Plaintiff, Defendant, and Michal Vaakil (“Vaakil”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  (See Decl. of Navas
¶2, Exhs. A, B at §2.3.)
The PAGA Settlement defines “Aggrieved Employee” as all non-exempt
hourly employees employed by Defendants in California during the PAGA period,
meaning from March 21, 2022, through the date this Court approves the
Settlement.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2
at §§1.4, 1.19.)  The definitions are
proper pursuant to the statute of limitations and the date of notice on the
LWDA.  
The PAGA Settlement includes a provision, “Release
by Aggrieved Employees,” which bars Aggrieved Employees from pursuing any
action against Defendants for civil penalties under PAGA that were alleged or
reasonably could have been alleged based on the PAGA Period facts stated in the
FAC and the PAGA Notice and ascertained in the course of the action, including
but not limited to civil penalties pursuant to PAGA for or related to alleged
unpaid wages, overtime or double time wages, sick pay, minimum wages, timely
payment of wages during employment and at separation, meal periods and meal
period premiums, rest periods and rest period premiums, wage statement
penalties, unreimbursed business expenses, failure to keep requisite payroll
records, injunctive relief as it relates to the claims listed above, penalties
recoverable pursuant to the claims listed above, interest, fees, costs, as well
as all other claims and allegations alleged in the Action, throughout the PAGA
Period (“Released PAGA Claims”) against Defendants and all of their present and
former parent companies, subsidiaries, divisions, concepts, related or
affiliated companies, shareholders, officers, directors, employees, agents,
attorneys, insurers, successors and assigns, and any individual or entity which
could be liable for any of the Released PAGA Claims, including Defense Counsel
(“Released Parties”).  Notwithstanding
the preceding language, however, nothing in this agreement releases any past or
future claims against Kingsley Gardens, LLC, which as separately brought an
unlawful detainer against Plaintiff.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §§1.27, 5.2.)  As such, the Settlement provides that
Released Claims only include claims for civil penalties under PAGA and does not apply to any
individual claims and is proper.   (Decl. of
Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §5.2; see ZB, N.A. v. Superior Court (2019) 8 Cal.5th 175.)  
The terms of the Settlement’s release imply that only in exchange
for the consideration set forth in the Settlement (i.e., the individual PAGA
payments) do Aggrieved Employee release Released Parties from
Released Claims.  As such, the release is
accordingly effective after the payment date, which is proper.   (See Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §5.)
The Settlement provides that no later than thirty (30) days after this
Court issues the Approval Order, Defendants will simultaneously deliver Aggrieved
Employee identifying information in Defendants’ possession including the
Aggrieved Employees’ names, last-known mailing addresses, Social Security
numbers, and number of PAGA Pay Periods (“Aggrieved Employee Data”) to the
Administrator, Phoenix Class Action Administration Solutions (“Administrator”)
in the form of a Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet. 
(Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §§1.2, 1.5, 4.1.)
Defendants shall fully fund the Gross Settlement Amount of $15,000.00 by
transmitting the funds to the Administrator no later than 30 days after the
Effective Date.  (Decl.
of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §§1.11, 4.2.)
A superior court must review and approve any
penalties sought as part of a proposed settlement agreement pursuant to Labor
Code section 2699(l).  “If, at the time of the alleged violation,
the person employs one or more employees, the civil penalty is one hundred
dollars ($100) for each aggrieved employee per pay period for the initial
violation and two hundred dollars ($200) for each aggrieved employee per pay
period for each subsequent violation.” 
(Lab. Code § 2699(f)(2).)  A
prevailing employee is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees and
costs incurred in the action.  (Lab. Code
§2699(g)(1).)  “[C]ivil penalties
recovered by aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75 percent to
the [LWDA] for enforcement of labor laws and education of employers and
employees about their rights and responsibilities under this code to be
continuously appropriated to supplement and not supplant the funding to the
[LWDA] for those purposes; and 25 percent to the aggrieved employees.”  (Lab. Code §2699(i).)  
The Administrator shall receive no more than $2,250.00 from the
Gross Settlement Amount.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §3.2.1.)  Estimated PAGA Penalties in the amount of
$12,750.00 are to be paid from the Gross Settlement Amount, with 75% allocated
to the LWDA PAGA Payment and 25% allocated to the Individual PAGA Payments.  All PAGA Penalty payments to the Aggrieved
Employees are deemed penalties and interest for which a form 1099 shall issue.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2,
Exh. 2 at §3.2.2.)
The Administrator will calculate each Individual PAGA Payment by (1)
dividing the amount of the Aggrieved Employees’ 25% share of PAGA Penalties
(approximately $3,187.50) by the total number of PAGA Pay Periods worked by all
Aggrieved Employees during the PAGA Period; and (2) multiplying the result by
each Aggrieved Employee’s PAGA Pay Periods.  Aggrieved Employees assume full responsibility
and liability for any taxes owed on their Individual PAGA Payment.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §3.2.4.1.)
The PAGA Settlement Agreement states that based on a review of the
records to date, Defendants estimate there are approximately 25 Aggrieved
Employees who worked a total of 1120 PAGA Periods between March 21, 2021, and
October 19, 2023.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2,
Exh. 2 at §8.)
Plaintiff’s counsel provides information
relating to the investigation conducted. 
(Decl. of Navas ¶3.)  Plaintiff
provided the Court with the Settlement but did not provide Plaintiff’s Notice
Letter to the LWDA.  (Decl. of Navas ¶¶2,
3, Exhs. 1-2.)  Plaintiff also provided
information suggesting the Settlement is reasonable based on Plaintiff’s
counsels’ detailed analysis of Plaintiffs’ claims and their potential value if
Plaintiff was successful at trial prior to mediation.  (Decl. of Navas ¶¶3-4.)  Plaintiff provided sufficient information to
support the reasonableness of the Settlement and how the terms of the
settlement were reached.  (Decl. of Navas
¶¶2-4.)
Plaintiff provides the total amount of the
PAGA settlement ($15,000.00) and the manner of its distribution from the Gross
Settlement Amount.  (Decl.
of Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §4.3.)  The Settlement
sets forth the tax treatment of each Aggrieved Employee’s Payment Share.  (Decl. of Navas ¶2,
Exh. 2 at §3.2.2.)  
As discussed above, to the extent the release of claims for PAGA
penalties is based only on underlying allegations in this action, and as such
it only releases claims alleged in the Notice Letters sent to the LWDA, the
release does not release anything other than claims for penalties, and there is no Civil Code §1542 waiver from the
Aggrieved Employees, only the individual Plaintiff, and as such, the release is
proper.  (See
Decl. of
Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §§5.1-5.2.)  
As the prevailing employee, Plaintiff is
entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees in this action.  (Lab. Code §2699(g)(1).)  The PAGA Settlement does not provide for attorneys’
fees to PAGA Counsel.
The PAGA Settlement Agreement provides
Parties seek this action to be stayed except to effectuate the terms of the
agreement.  (See Decl. of
Navas ¶2, Exh. 2 at §10.17.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s proposed PAGA
Settlement Agreement is proper and therefore is approved.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Malena Gurcinas Nicolini’s unopposed
motion to confirm settlement is granted. 

Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  