 Case Number:  22STCV22429    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  C WRISK v. DAVITA, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  22STCV22429
HEARING: 
08/15/24
 
#7

 
Defendants
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP, INC.; and KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITALS, INC’s unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The
unopposed alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
This
action for medical malpractice was filed by Plaintiff ANGELA WRISK
(“Plaintiff”) on July 12, 2022.  Plaintiff
is the successor-in-interest to Decedent Joyce Claudine Starlin (“Decedent”). 
 
Defendants
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP and KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS,
INC. (collectively “Defendants”) move  for
summary judgment pursuant to CCP §437c. 
 
On
August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Non-Opposition. Therefore, the
instant Motion is unopposed. 
 
“[I]n
any medical malpractice action, the plaintiff must establish: ‘(1) the duty of
the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of
his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s
negligence.’ [Citation Omitted.]” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Center
(1993) Cal.App.4th 870, 877.) 
 
The
standard of care in a medical malpractice case requires that physicians
exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable degree of skill, knowledge
and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical
profession under similar circumstances. (Mann. v. Cracchiolo (1985) 38
Cal.3d 18, 36.) “The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are
to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it
presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by
their testimony [citations], unless the conduct required by the particular
circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’ [Citations.]” (Landeros
v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) Therefore, when a defendant moves for
summary judgment/adjudication of a medical malpractice cause of action, and
supports the motion with expert declarations that the defendant’s conduct fell
within the community standard of care, that defendant is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”
(Munro v. Regents of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.) 
 
Here,
Defendants proffer the declaration of Aimee French, M.D. in support of the
instant Motion. Dr. French is board-certified in internal medicine and licensed
to practice medicine in the State of California. (French Decl., ¶¶1-2). Dr. French
opines that “all actions taken or not taken by Defendants as to Joyce Starlin
complied at all times with the applicable standard of care for health care
practitioners providing care in an intensive care setting in Southern
California from 2021 to the present day.” (French Decl., ¶13.) It is Dr.
French’s expert opinion that “to a reasonable degree of medical probability…
the care and treatment rendered by Defendants to Joyce Starlin were at all
times within eh standard of care for reputable and prudent health care
practitioners providing care in an intensive care setting in the Southern
California area, both in 2021 and the present, and that no act or omission by
Defendants caused or contributed to Joyce Starlin’s injuries or death.” (French
Decl., ¶15.) 
 
The
Motion is unopposed. Therefore, Plaintiff has submitted no expert testimony
evidence to refute Defendants’ arguments. 
 
Based
on the evidence presented, the Court finds that there are no triable issues of
material fact as to whether Defendants breached the standard of care. The unopposed
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 
 