 Case Number:  22STCV04425    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  C BRADY v. DOE 1
CASE NO.:  22STCV04425 
HEARING:  08/15/24
 
#1
Defendants’ Motion to Stay Proceedings is DENIED.
Opposing Party to give notice.

Background
 
This is a childhood sexual
assault case. Plaintiff Constance Brady (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against
Defendants City of Whittier and Charles Drylie (collectively “Defendants”) on February
4, 2022. On February 22, 2022, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
was filed. 
 
The FAC
alleges personal injuries and damages arising from childhood sexual assault,
and asserts claims for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Training and Supervision;
(3) Sexual Battery; (4) Sexual Harassment; and (5) Gender Violence. 
 
On May 28,
2024, Defendants moved to stay this action pending the outcome of two unrelated
cases on appeal.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A party can
ask the court to stay an action or proceeding based on the court's inherent
power to stay in the interest of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.
See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1 (vesting courts with judicial power); CCP § 128
(giving court power in proceedings before it); Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th
583, 593 (court has inherent power to stay related actions); Smith v. Jones
(1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 (court has right to postpone case); Koch-Ash v. Superior
Ct. (2d Dist.1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 696 (court has inherent authority to
stay trial); see also Walker v. Superior Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266–67
(California Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized inherent power of courts,
derived from both statute and Constitution, to ensure orderly administration of
justice).
(§ 3. Stay,
O'Connor's California Practice * Civil Pretrial Ch. 5-I § 3 (2024 ed.))
 
Requests
For Judicial Notice
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendants’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice only as to
the existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein.
(Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)

 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice, (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
However, the Court takes judicial notice only as to the existence, content, and
authenticity of such documents; it does not take judicial notice of the truth
of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.
App. 5th 389, 400.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants move
to stay this action based on two unrelated cases that are currently pending
before the First and Second Districts of the Court of Appeal, i.e., West Contra
Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe #2 v.
Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707),
respectively. Both of these cases involve the question of whether AB 218
violates the Gift Clause of the California Constitution, an issue underlying
this current litigation. Defendant contends that judicial economy and common
sense mandate the Court exercise its inherent power to stay these proceedings
pending the outcomes of these two other cases in the Courts of Appeal.
Defendant contends that this case would not be able to proceed if the Courts of
Appeal determine AB 218 is unconstitutional.
 
Defendants contend
the case will almost certainly be reversed on appeal, which would render all
work performed before then wasteful. Defendants also contend it cannot settle
this case while those two cases are before the Courts of Appeal. Defendants
cite the case of Farmland Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208
(Farmland Irrigation), as the standard for determining whether to grant a stay.
Defendants then contend that the only way to ensure the decision in this case
will not conflict with the decisions in the two currently pending Court of
Appeal cases is to stay this case until those other cases have been decided.
Defendant further contends the rights of the parties can best be determined by
the Courts of Appeal because the nature of the subject matter and the stage to
which proceedings in those courts have already advanced. Defendants also
contend that staying this action will not prejudice Plaintiff’s rights.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendants have not made any showing it is
likely to succeed on the merits. Plaintiff contends other trial court decisions
regarding the constitutionality of AB 218 are not binding on this court.
Plaintiff contends that although there is no evidence how the Courts of Appeal
will rule on the Jane Doe case, the Second District of the Court of Appeal and
the California Supreme Court summarily denied writ petitions on related issues
regarding AB 218. Plaintiff contends that if the Courts of Appeal provide
conflicting rulings, then the trial courts will be in the same position they
are already in and just rely on the precedent they choose to follow, and then
the California Supreme Court would have to step in, which could take years.
 
This Court
determines that any notion as to when the Courts of Appel will decide the two
unrelated actions is speculative, at best. Moreover, there is always the
possibility that the Courts of Appeal could issue conflicting rulings, or the
California Supreme Court may decide to grant review. The Court finds that
judicial economy is best served by going forward with the litigation, and if
Defendant is unable to engage in settlement discussions, the parties can
proceed with discovery and motion work.
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Stay is DENIED.
 
 