 Case Number:  23NWCV01004    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  C DOLIVEIRA v. FCA
US, LLC
CASE NO.: 23NWCV01004
HEARING:  08/15/24
 
#2
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses, without
Objections, to Request for Production of Documents (set one) is DENIED as MOOT .
   
II.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Answers, without
Objections, to Special Interrogatories (set one) is DENIED as MOOT .
  III.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Answers, without
Objections, to Form Interrogatories (set one) is DENIED as MOOT .
 IV.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for
Admission (set one) is DENIED as MOOT .
  
V.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Request for Admission
(set one) to FCA US, LLC Admitted is DENIED as MOOT .
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
Motions to Compel 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories and document demands are directed
fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court
order compelling answers thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) All that needs
to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to
compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and
conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate
statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond
also waives all objections. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has shown that Form Interrogatories (set one), Special
Interrogatories (set one), and Request for Production of Documents (set one)
were served on November 3, 2023. 
 
In Opposition and Supplemental Oppositions filed with this Court,
Defendant CERRITOS DODGE CHRYSLER JEEP indicates that Responses were (untimely)
served. The Oppositions argue that the Motions should be denied because
delayed, untimely responses that are in compliance with the discovery act were
ultimately served, and that CERRITOS DODGE CHYRSLER JEEP’s failure to timely
respond was the result of their attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.
 
The Motion is DENIED as MOOT. 
Sanctions
may be awarded against a party who fails to oppose a motion to compel, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
after the motion was filed. (C.R.C 3.1348(a).). Reasonable sanctions are
awarded as indicated below:
It
is undisputed that responses were untimely served. Defendant CERRITOS DODGE
CHRYSLER JEEP and their  counsel of
record are ORDERED to pay Plaintiff and their counsel of record reasonable sanctions
in the total amount of $1,350.00 ($450 x 3) no later than 90 days from the
Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended per agreement of the
parties.
Motions to Deem Admitted 
 
“If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to
whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection to the
requests…. The Court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. (2) the party’s failure to serve a
timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect….
(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7…on the party or attorney, or both,
whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated
this motion.” (CCP §2033.280.) 
Unverified responses “are tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) No prior attempt to
resolve the matter informally is required. 
 
Here, RFAs were propounded on or about November 3,
2024.  
 
In Oppositions, Defendants CERRITOS DODGE CHRYSLER JEEP and
FCA contend that untimely responses were served, thus rendering these Motion
moot. 
 
The court finds that Defendants’ responses are in
substantial compliance and that they were served before the date of this
hearing. 
 
The Motion is DENIED as MOOT. 
 Sanctions
 
Reasonable sanctions are
mandatory under CCP §2033.280(c) and awarded as follows: 
 
Defendant CERRITOS DODGE CHRYSLER
JEEP and their counsel of record are jointly and severally ORDERED to pay Plaintiff and their counsel of record sanctions in
the total amount of $450.00 no later than 90 days from the Court’s issuance
of this Order.
 
Defendant FCA US and their
counsel of record are jointly and severally ORDERED to pay Plaintiff and their counsel of record sanctions in
the total amount of $450.00 no later than 90 days from the Court’s issuance
of this Order.
 