  Case Number:  23STCV20791    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



HAND-IN-HAND HOMECARE, INC., a California corporation; and
  GENEROUS HAND HOMECARE, a California corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LAKEVIEW TERRACE SKILLED NURSING FACILITY LLC, a California
  limited liability company; YEHUDA SCHMUKLER, an individual; ELLIOT ZEMEL, an
  individual; and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV20791
 Hearing Date:   2/15/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Yehuda Schmukler
  and Elliot Zemel’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint; and
Defendants Yehuda
  Schmukler and Elliot Zemel’s Demurrer to the Complaint.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiffs Hand-in-Hand Homecare, Inc. (HHH) and Generous Hand Homecare
(GHH) sue Defendants Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing Facility LLC (Lakeview Terrace),
Yehuda Schmukler and Elliot Zemel (using Lakeview Terrace as alter ego), and
Does 1-10 pursuant to an August 29, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Breach of Written Contract, (2) Breach of Oral Contract, (3) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Conversion, (5) Unjust Enrichment,
and (6) Common Counts.
The claims arise from the following allegations. On or around May 5,
2022, HHH and Lakeview Terrace entered a written agreement for HHH to provide
Lakeview Terrace with caretakers and “sitters” who would care for elderly
Lakeview Terrace skilled nursing facility residents. Lakeview Terrace breached
the written agreement by failing to properly compensate HHH for services
provided between November 16, 2022 and February 28, 2023, i.e., of the $89,000
in services rendered by HHH, Defendant refused to pay $49,931.50. Defendants Schmukler
and Zemel operate Lakeview Terrace as their alter ego, comingling assets,
disregarding legal formalities, inadequately capitalizing Lakeview Terrace,
using Lakeview Terrace as a mere shell, manipulating Lakeview Terrace’s assets
and liabilities as to deplete Lakeview Terrace’s assets, using Lakeview Terrace
to conceal these individual Defendants’ business activities, and using Lakeview
Terrace to avoid personal obligations. GHH is also a staffing agency for senior
and adult care businesses, but its relationship to this action is not
elaborated.
Motions Before the Court
On October 31, 2023, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel filed a demurrer to
the Complaint’s first to third causes of action based on insufficiency of
pleading.
That same day, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel filed a motion to strike paragraphs
nine to 12 from the Complaint, i.e., the Complaint’s alter ego allegations.
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the demurrer and
motion to strike.
On February 7, 2024, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel replied to Plaintiffs’
opposition to the demurrer.
No reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition to the motion to strike appears in the
record.
Also on February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs objected to the demurrer reply on
the ground that Defendants filed the reply late.
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiffs withdrew their objection.
Defendants Schmukler and Zemel’s demurrer and motion to strike are now
before the Court.
 
Motion
to Strike
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
Order Striking Alter Ego
Allegations: DENIED.
Defendants Schmukler and Zemel’s
motion to strike seeks a court order striking the ninth to twelfth paragraphs
of the Complaint. Defendants argue that this relief is proper because
“Plaintiffs have failed to allege any facts in support of [their] … alter ego
claims,” e.g., “Plaintiffs present no dates, numbers, nor any facts verifiable
through any of the five (5) senses to claim that the Answering Defendants did
anything to warrant the “extreme remedy, sparingly used” of piercing the
corporate veil.” (Mot., pp. 1-2, 5.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants’ ‘five-senses’ argument is not the relevant standard for alter
ego liability. Plaintiffs also argue that a motion to strike may not challenge
the sufficiency of a pleading—a demurrer should have been used instead—and that
even if a motion to strike may challenge sufficiency, the pleadings need only
allege ultimate rather than evidentiary facts. Plaintiffs argue that the
Complaint sufficiently alleges alter ego through allegations of domination and
control, unity of interest and ownership, use of entity as a mere shell,
inadequate capitalization, failure to abide with corporate formalities, using
corporate assets as one’s own, and the injustice that would arise if the entity
was recognized as having a separate existence. Plaintiffs add that the
allegations here are identical to Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236 (Rutherford)—abrogation on other grounds
re: conversion in Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240 (Lee)—and
First Western Bank & Trust Co. v. Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d
910, 915-916 (First Western), where the court of appeal determined that
the pleadings sufficiently alleged alter ego liability. Last, Plaintiffs argue
that less particularity of pleading is required where the defendant may be
assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to
that possessed by the plaintiff, which is the case here because Defendants Schmukler
and Zemel possess more knowledge as to factual grounds supporting alter ego
liability against them. 
No reply appears in the record.
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
The Court initially notes that a
motion to strike properly lies against an unauthorized claim for damages, i.e.,
damages not allowable as a matter of law. (See, e.g. Commodore Home Systems,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 32 Cal.3d 211, 214 (Commodore) [motion
to strike lies against request for punitive damages when the claim sued upon
would not support an award of punitive damages as a matter of law].)
Moving to the merits, “[a]n alter
ego defendant has no separate primary liability to the plaintiff. Rather,
plaintiff’s claim against the alter ego defendant is identical with that
claimed by plaintiff against the already-named defendant. [¶] A claim against a
defendant, based on the alter ego theory, is not itself a claim for substantive
relief, e.g., breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, but
rather, procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct
defendant and to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the obligations of
the corporation where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to
escape personal liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice.
[Citations.]” (Hennessey’s Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co.
(1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1358-1359 (Hennessey’s Tavern); accord. Shaoxing
County Huayue Import & Export v. Bhaumik (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1189,
1198 (Shaoxing) [Liability can flow to an individual defendant where he
or she uses the “corporate form … to escape personal liability, sanction a
fraud, or promote injustice”].)
Two requirements must be met to
invoke the alter ego doctrine: (1) “[T]here must be such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist”;
and (2) “there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are
treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538 (Sonora).) Among the
factors to be considered in determining whether a unity of interest and
ownership exists for alter ego purposes, courts consider the (1) commingling of
funds and other assets, (2) the holding out by one entity that it is liable for
the debts of the other, (3) identical equitable ownership in the two entities,
(4) use of the same offices and employees, (5) use of one entity as a mere shell
or conduit for the affairs of the other, (6) inadequate capitalization, (7)
disregard of corporate formalities, (8) lack of segregation of corporate
records, and (9) identical directors and officers. (Id. at pp. 538-539.)
“No one characteristic governs, but the courts must look at all the
circumstances to determine whether the doctrine should be applied.” (Id.
at p. 539.)
Plaintiffs are only “required to
allege … ‘ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.’” (Rutherford, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 236.)
Here, the Complaint alleges alter
ego liability against Defendants Schmukler and Zemel at paragraphs nine to 12
in the Complaint, i.e., the portions of the Complaint challenged by Defendants Schmukler
and Zemel’s motion. These paragraphs allege that Defendants Schmukler and Zemel operate Lakeview Terrace as their alter
ego, comingling assets, disregarding legal formalities, inadequately
capitalizing Lakeview Terrace, using Lakeview Terrace as a mere shell,
manipulating Lakeview Terrace’s assets and liabilities as to deplete Lakeview
Terrace’s assets, using Lakeview Terrace to conceal these individual Defendants’
business activities, and using Lakeview Terrace to avoid personal obligations. (See
Complaint, ¶¶ 9-11.)
A review of Plaintiffs’ cited
authority shows that similar allegations of unity of interest were found by the
court of appeal to be sufficiently alleged at the pleadings stage. (Compare Complaint,
¶¶ 10-11, with Rutherford, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at pp. 235-236
[unity of interest sufficiently pleaded where “Rutherford alleged that Caswell
dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and ownership existed
between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and conduit for Caswell’s
affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR failed to abide by the
formalities of corporate existence; [and] that Caswell used PDR assets as her
own …”], and with First Western, supra, 267 Cal.App.2d at pp. 915-916
[unity of interest sufficiently pleaded through allegations that “that the
individuals, especially including E. H. Bookasta, ‘dominated’ the affairs of
the corporation; that a ‘unity of interest and ownership’ existed between
respondent and the corporation; that the corporation is a ‘mere shell and naked
framework’ for individual manipulations; that its income was diverted to the
use of the individuals and respondent; that the corporation was, in effect,
inadequately capitalized; that the corporation failed to issue stock and to
abide by the formalities of corporate existence; [and] that the corporation is
and has been insolvent …”].)
The Complaint also sufficiently alleges
inequitable result as compared to Rutherford and First Western.
(Compare Complaint, ¶ 12 [“Upholding the separate existence of Defendant
Lakeview and allowing for Defendant Schmukler and Defendant Zemel to avoid
personal liability would sanction fraud, or promote injustice or bring about an
inequitable result”], with Rutherford, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
p. 236 [inequitable result sufficiently pleaded through allegations “that
recognizing the separate existence of PDR would promote injustice”], and with First
Western, supra, 267 Cal.App.2d at p. 916 [inequitable result sufficiently
pleaded through allegations that “adherence to the fiction of separate
corporate existence would, under the circumstances, promote injustice”]; see
also Shaoxing, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 1198 [Question is “whether
justice and equity are best accomplished in a particular case, and fraud
defeated, by disregarding the separate nature of the corporate form as to the
claims in that case”].)
Last, the Court agrees with
Plaintiffs that the “particularity required in pleading facts depends on the
extent to which the defendant in fairness needs detailed information that can
be conveniently provided by the plaintiffs; less particularity is required
where the defendant may be assumed to have knowledge of the facts equal to that
possessed by the plaintiff.” (Jackson v. Pasadena City School Dist.
(1963) 59 Cal.2d 876, 879.) Here, based on the inherent nature of alter ego
allegations, the persons alleged to be operating an entity as an alter ego are
best positioned to possess or have knowledge of information supporting alter
ego liability.
For all these reasons, the motion
to strike is DENIED.
 
Demurrer
Legal
Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) This device can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.)
Thus, “[t]o survive a [general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other
grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th
1158, 1162.) The face of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the
complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts
appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits
take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in White
v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
I.
First
and Second Causes of Action, Breach of Written Contract and Breach of Oral
Contract: OVERRULED.
“A
contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good
consideration, to do or not to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee
(1858) 9 Cal. 81, 83.) “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of
the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4)
the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) Implicit in the element of
damage is that the defendant’s breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
The
first and second causes of action allege breach of contract on the same grounds
but through different devices: either through a written or oral contract
between HHH and Lakeview Terrace, HHH provided staffing services for Lakeview
Terrace, with Lakeview failing to compensate HHH $49,934.50 for services
rendered between November 16, 2022 and February 28, 2023. (Complaint, ¶¶ 21-25,
26-30; see Complaint, Ex. A, Supplemental Staffing Agreement [between HHH and
Lakeview Terrace].)
In
their demurrers, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel argue that the first and second
causes of action are not sufficiently alleged. Defendants argue that the first
cause of action is not sufficiently alleged against Schmukler and Zemel because
these Defendants are not, on its face, parties to the written agreement between
HHH and Lakeview Terrace. Defendants Schmukler and Zemel add that because the
agreement has a full integration clause, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel cannot
now be added to the terms of that agreement. Last, Defendants Schmukler and
Zemel argue that the second cause of action is not sufficiently alleged because
the only agreement at issue between the parties is the written agreement
between HHH and Lakeview Terrace, which contradicts and supersedes any claim
for breach of oral contract based on the same agreement. (Demurrer, pp. 5-6.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that there is no dispute that the signatories to
the agreement at issue here were HHH and Lakeview Terrace. Instead, Plaintiffs
argue, liability for breach of contract is alleged against Defendants Schmukler
and Zemel based on alter ego liability. Plaintiffs add that Defendants
Schmukler and Zemel cite no authority for the proposition that the alter egos
of a corporation could never be held liable for a corporation’s breach of a
written agreement, and that California law permits the application of alter ego
liability to shareholders liable for a corporation’s misconduct. Plaintiffs
next argue that alter ego liability does not seek to add Defendants Schmukler
and Zemel to the HHH-Lakeview Terrace agreement, but rather, applies a
procedural mechanism to hold these Defendants liable for Lakeview Terrace’s
breach of contract. Last, Plaintiffs argue that they may plead that oral breach
of contract claim in the alternative to the written breach of contract claim
given that the written HHH-Lakeview Terrace agreement may be found
unenforceable as drafted. (Opp’n, pp. 3-5.)
In
reply, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel argue that the alter ego allegations in
the Complaint are not sufficiently alleged. These Defendants also argue that
the alter ego doctrine should not be applied because it frustrates the purpose
and use of a full integration clause in contracts. (Reply, p. 2.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiffs.
The
‘full integration clause’ argument misses the mark as to both the first and
second causes of action. Even if the written HHH-Lakeview Terrace agreement has
a full integration clause (see Complaint, Ex. A, § 10.6), the application of
the alter ego liability doctrine does not affect the terms of that written
agreement. As explained by the court of appeal: “A claim against a defendant,
based on the alter ego theory, is not itself a claim for substantive relief,
e.g., breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, but rather,
procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and
to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation
where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal
liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice. [Citations.]” (Hennessey’s
Tavern, supra, 204 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1358-1359.) Here, the first and
second causes of action are not ‘direct’ breach of contract claims against
Defendants Schmukler and Zemel. Rather, through the application of the alter
ego doctrine, the first and second causes of action seek to hold Defendants
Schmukler and Zemel liable on the obligations of Lakeview Terrace where the
corporate form is allegedly being used by Schmukler and Zemel to escape
personal liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice.
The
public policy argument also misses the mark. California courts have applied the
alter ego liability doctrine in numerous cases—e.g., Rutherford and First
Western—and the test for liability does not turn on the integration of the
written agreement, but rather, on the individual’s conduct in relation to the
alleged alter ego entity and injustice.
The
Court notes that it has found that the alter ego allegations in the Complaint are
sufficiently alleged. (See Motion to Strike discussion supra.)
Last,
the Court determines that the first and second causes of action are properly
pleaded in the alternative insofar as the second cause of action is alleged as
a failsafe in case the written agreement alleged in the first cause of action
is found not to be enforceable. (See Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 666, 690; Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 [Generally,
complainants properly may plead, in the alternative, inconsistent facts or
theories]; Penziner v. West American Finance Co. (1933) 133 Cal. App.
578, 582 [“[E]ach count stands on its own allegations, unaffected by those
contained in other counts”]; see also Opp’n, p. 5 [making alternative claims
arguments].)
Defendants
Schmukler and Zemel’s demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s first
and second causes of action.
II.
Third
Cause of Action, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing:
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, the plaintiff must prove: (1) the existence of a contract
between plaintiff and defendant; (2) plaintiff performed his contractual
obligations or was excused from performing them; (3) the conditions requiring
defendant’s performance had occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered
with the plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the
plaintiff was harmed by the defendant’s conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. v.
County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal. 2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 (Merced
Irr.) [discussing California law].) Allegations must demonstrate defendant’s
conduct for failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities was a
conscious and deliberate act, not an honest mistake, bad judgment or
negligence. (Ibid.) “‘[T]he implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing is limited to assuring compliance with the
express terms of the contract and cannot be extended to create obligations not
contemplated by the contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 182, 206 [quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094].)
In
their demurrer, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel argue that the Complaint’s third
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing cannot be stated where the only harm alleged in the Complaint is the
nonpayment of services to HHH, which is covered by the breach of contract
claims, leaving no reason to resort to an implied covenant claim. (Demurrer, p.
6.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants Schmukler and Zemel failed to cite
California case law supporting their position, citing instead only a 2015
practice guide (Miller & Starr). Plaintiffs also argue that Defendants
misinterpret the law, which does not require that breach of implied covenant
claims simply “fill in” missing terms in a contract, but rather, focuses on the
question of whether the defendant intentionally interfered with the plaintiff’s
right to receive benefits of the contract. (Opp’n, pp. 5-6.)
In
reply, Defendants Schmukler and Zemel cite to case law for the purpose that a
plaintiff may not recover on a quasi-contract claim if the parties have an
enforceable agreement regarding the same subject matter. Defendants add that
Miller & Starr is a properly cited authority. Last, Defendants argue that
because Plaintiffs secured entry of default against Lakeview Terrace on
December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs should instead secure judgment against Lakeview
Terrace and use post-judgment discovery to attempt to pierce the corporate veil
rather than advancing alter ego liability at trial. (Reply, p. 3.)
The
Court finds in favor of Defendants Schmukler and Zemel.
As
alleged, the third cause of action is duplicative of the first and second
causes of action. All three claims seek $49,931.50 in damages based on
Defendants’ nonpayment and refusal to pay $49,931.50 to HHH per the
HHH-Lakeview Terrace agreement. A general demurrer for sufficiency may be
sustained against duplicative claims. (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290 [“a cause of action
for breach of governing documents [that] appear[ed] to be duplicative of [a]
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty” is “recognized … as a basis for
sustaining a demurrer”]; Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87
Cal.App.3d 494, 501 [demurrer was properly sustained without leave to amend as
to cause of action that contained allegations of other causes and “thus add[ed]
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery”]; Award
Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135 [demurrer
should have been sustained as to duplicative causes of action].)
Moreover,
given that “[a] plaintiff may not … pursue or recover on a quasi-contract claim
if the parties have an enforceable agreement regarding a particular subject
matter” (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342,
1388), the Complaint fails to allege how “the defendant unfairly interfered
with the plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the contract” and how “the
plaintiff was harmed by the defendant’s conduct” (Merced Irr., supra,
941 F.Supp.2d at p. 1280). Otherwise stated, if the agreement between HHH and
Lakeview Terrance covers damages arising from nonpayment of monies for services
rendered by HHH, then the implied covenant claim cannot seek the same damages
in the alternative and must instead arise from other damages caused by
Defendants’ interference with Plaintiffs’ rights under the HHH-Lakeview Terrace
agreement.
 It therefore follows that the third cause of
action adds nothing to the Complaint because it seeks relief for damages
arising from nonpayment of monies to HHH for services rendered in favor of
Lakeview Terrace, the same relief sought in relation to the breach of contract
claims, which cannot be pleaded in the alternative. (Compare Complaint, ¶¶
33-34, with Complaint, ¶¶ 24-25, 29-30.)
Defendants
Schmukler and Zemel’s demurrer is thus SUSTAINED as to the Complaint’s third
cause of action, with leave to amend.
The
Court notes, however, that it finds no merit to the argument that a plaintiff
must wait until after he or she secures judgment against an entity defendant
before being entitled to discovery or to conduct other proceedings against
individuals alleged to have used the entity defendant as an alter ego. The
scope of discovery is broad (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010), and Defendants
Schmukler and Zemel cite no authority confining alter ego liability to
post-trial proceedings. 

Conclusion
Defendants Yehuda Schmukler and
Elliot Zemel’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.
Defendants Yehuda Schmukler and
Elliot Zemel’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part:
(1) OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s
first and second causes of action; and
(2) SUSTAINED as to the Complaint’s
third cause of action, with leave to amend.
Plaintiffs Hand-in-Hand Homecare, Inc. and Generous Hand Homecare SHALL file an
amended pleading making modifications to the allegations supporting the third
cause of action, if any, within 14 days of this ruling.