 Case Number:  20STCV11604    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest filed by Brenda
Wells.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
This case
arises out of an alleged slip and fall on March 25, 2018, at a Burger King
location on Cherry Avenue in Long Beach, California.  
On March
23, 2020, Plaintiff Richard Wells (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Burger King Corporation, California Food Management, LLC
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25 asserting causes of action
for general negligence and premises liability.  Defendants filed an
Answer on January 25, 2021.
On August 22, 2022, Defendants filed a motion for summary
judgment. The motion was unopposed.  On October 20, 2023, the Court
granted Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
The Court entered judgment in favor of Defendants, and against
Plaintiff, on January 3, 2024.
On November 21, 2023, Defendants filed a notice
of Plaintiff’s death.  According to Defendants, Plaintiff died on
August 13, 2023.
On March 11, 2024, Petitioner Brenda Wells (“Petitioner”) filed a Motion
to Substitute Petitioner for the deceased Plaintiff as the plaintiff in this
action.  The Court shortened time, heard the motion on March 26, and
denied the motion without prejudice for procedural reasons.
On March 27, Petitioner filed this motion, a new Motion to
Substitute Petitioner for the deceased Plaintiff as the plaintiff in this
action.  On Petitioner’s opposed ex parte
application, the Court shortened time and advanced the hearing date on this
motion to April 11.  Defendants filed
their opposition on April 8.
Legal Standard
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other person has
a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).) 
The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Plaintiff
died on August 13, 2023.  (B. Wells Decl., ¶ 3.)  Petitioner, Plaintiff’s widow, seeks an order
allowing her to substitute in as plaintiff in place of her deceased husband.
On March 27, 2024,
Petitioner filed this motion to substitute. 
The Declaration
of Brenda Wells includes:
(1) the decedent’s name, Richard Wells;
(2) the date and place of Plaintiff’s death, August
13, 2023 in Los Angeles, California;
(3) that there is no proceeding now pending in California
for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate;
(4) that Petitioner is the Plaintiff’s successor in
interest; 
(5) that no other person has a superior right to be
substituted in  for Plaintiff;
(6) and Petitioner declares these statements are true under
penalty of perjury. 
Petitioner also
attaches copy of death certificate to this motion. (B. Wells Decl., Exh. C.) 
The Court finds
Petitioner’s declaration meets the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31.  As such, Petitioner’s
motion is complete.
Defendants oppose the motion.  They argue that now that judgment has been entered,
there is no “pending action or proceeding” within the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.31.  The Court does
not read section 377.31 so narrowly.  If
Plaintiff were still alive, he could still bring a motion to set aside the
judgment; as his cause of action does not abate with his death, the Court sees
no reason to read section 377.31 to preclude his successor-in-interest from substituting
in and bringing such a motion.
Defendants also argue that they have closed
their litigation file and it would be highly prejudicial to them to allow the
substitution.  But that is an argument
better addressed in the context of the (likely upcoming) motion to set aside
the judgment, not the motion to substitute. 
Again, allowing the substitution does not, in itself, cause undue prejudice
to Defendants; whether the motion were filed by Plaintiff (if he were still
alive) or is now filed by his successor, the prejudice is the same and can be
addressed in connection with the merits of the set aside motion. 
Finally, the Court notes that allowing the motion
to substitute, and then having the successor file an expected set aside motion,
serves the interests of justice and may ultimately be in the interests of
everyone.  Defendant died before judgment
was entered, and Defendants knew this before they submitted the judgment to the
Court; there is at least a question about whether the Court should have entered
judgment against a person known by the parties (but not the Court) to be
deceased.
For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Petitioner’s
motion to substitute a successor in interest.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Petitioner’s motion to
substitute a successor in interest for Plaintiff.
The Court ORDERS
that Petitioner Brenda Wells is hereby substituted as plaintiff in this action
as the successor-in-interest of Plaintiff Richard Wells.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.