  Case Number:  19STCV42816    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Answer filed by Defendant
Eduardo De Vicente.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 27, 2019, Marc Romero
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Eduardo De Vicente (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 50 for a negligence cause of action arising from  an automobile accident occurring on June 10,
2019. Defendant filed an answer on June 29, 2021, asserting four affirmative
defenses for (1) failure to state a cause of action, (2) comparative
negligence,(3) failure to mitigate damages) and (4) third party negligence.
 
On May 11, 2023, Defendant filed this
motion for leave to file first amended answer. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
requests leave to amend their complaint to add a fifth affirmative defense of
accord. (Motion, 5:25-27.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s counsel sent a demand
letter to settle the claim for policy limits on July 15, 2021. (Bakshandeh
Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant alleges that he accepted this demand on August 2, 2021.
(Id., ¶ 3; see also Tan Decl., ¶ 3 and Exhibits B & C.) Defendant
requests leave to amend answer to add accord as an affirmative defense in
relation the the acceptance of Plaintiff’s settlement demand. (Id., ¶
7.) Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to this motion.
 
Defense counsel
includes in the declaration addressing the need for the amendment to address
this agreement as well as that it was discovered after the case was transferred
to him in February 2023. Further, the declaration of Laura Cohen details back
and forth conversation between defense and Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the settlement
between March 9, 2023 and April 20, 2023, which explains why this motion was
not filed until May 11, 2023. Lastly, Defendant has met the requirement of
attaching the amended pleading to this motion. (Exhibit H.)
 
The
Court finds good cause has been established to grant leave to Defendant to file
an amended answer including a new affirmative defense of accord. 
 
As such,
the Court GRANTS the motion for leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to amend his answer.
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant leave to file the amended answer attached to his moving
papers within 14 days of the hearing. 
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.