 Case Number:  20STCV16375    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Reopen Discovery 
 
TENTATIVE
The motion is granted.
BACKGROUND
On April 29, 2020, Vartan Aristakian and Vahagn H. Aristakian
filed a complaint against Alaric Burton (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50
asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
out of an automobile accident occurring April 29, 2018, at or near the intersection
of the 210 Freeway and La Tuna Canyon Road in Tujunga.
On June 15, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint.
On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Vartan Aristakian filed a request
for dismissal of their claims.
On filing, the Court set a trial date of October 27, 2021.  The trial date was vacated, reset for July
25, 2023, continued to November 29, 2023, and then continued again to March 25,
2024.
On March 5, 2024, the Court granted the opposed ex parte
application of Plaintiff Vahagn Aristakian (“Plaintiff”) to continue the trial
again.  Trial is now set for August 28,
2024.  The Court did not extend any
deadlines for discovery at that time.
On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to reopen
discovery. Defendant filed an opposition on March 28. Plaintiff filed a reply
on April 4.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section
2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ ¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
OBJECTIONS
TO EVIDENCE
Defendant asserts a number of objections to the Declaration of
Raffi Sarukhanyan. The objections are OVERRULED.
DISCUSSION
As a threshold matter, Defendant contends that the motion,
although timely filed, was not timely served. 
(Opp. at 7-8.)  Plaintiff concedes
that an error was made in not properly accounting for an intervening court
holiday.  (Reply at 4.)
If Defendant contends that he suffered prejudice as a result
of the error, Defendant may at the hearing request a brief continuance of the
hearing so that Defendant may have the full statutory period to prepare an
opposition to the motion.
The Court will now proceed to address the merits of the motion,
in case Defendant does not make such a request.
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
Plaintiff seeks to reopen
discovery for essentially two reasons: (1) to depose a potentially adverse
witness; and (2) to obtain a ruling on Plaintiff’s pending motion to compel,
filed on March 5 and set for hearing on June 26.  Plaintiff argues (among other things) that he
first learned of the witness, Patrick Eisman, in October 2023 and that Mr.
Eisman may have critical information regarding whether (as Defendant contends)
Plaintiff was speeding at the time of the accident.  Indeed, it appears that Defendant agrees that
Mr. Eisman should be deposed and “would be at trial … a key witness.”  (Sarukhanyan Reply Decl., Exh. B.)  Plaintiff also argues that the motion to
compel (if successful) will help eliminate non-issues and streamline the trial.
Defendant does not present
contrary evidence or argument.  
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
This case has been pending for
almost four years.  The case has been at
issue for close to two years.  There already
have been multiple continuances of the trial dates and discovery cutoffs.
Plaintiff argues that counsel has
experienced serious family issues that required him to be out of the country
for a month in September-October 2023 and again for most of January and
February 2024.  The Court will certainly
take these circumstances into account, but Plaintiff has not explained why the
written discovery was not sought at an earlier date, such as the second half of
2022 (after Defendant answered) or the first nine months of 2023 (before the
onset of the family emergency).
Plaintiff has adequately
explained the failure to depose the adverse witness, as counsel did not learn
of the existence of this witness until October 2023.  The witness is not listed on the police
report and was not disclosed in Defendant’s discovery responses.  (Sarukhanyan Decl., ¶ 9.)
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
Trial is set for August 28,
2024.  It does not appear likely that
granting this motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set
or cause any undue or unfair prejudice to either party.
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
Trial was already continued from
March 5, 2024 to August 28, 2024. 
 
The Court has considered all of the argument and evidence
presented by both sides, as well as each of the factors set forth in Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b), and all of the other
relevant circumstances.  Defendant raises
fair questions about the diligence of the Plaintiff, but the Court’s concerns about
diligence are ameliorated somewhat by the family circumstances of Plaintiff’s
counsel described in the moving papers, as well as the fact that Plaintiff was
not aware of a critical witness until October 2023.  The other factors, and in particular the
necessity of/reasons for the discovery and the likelihood that no continuance
of trial will be necessary, weigh strongly in favor of granting the
motion.  
On balance, the Court finds that Plaintiff has made a
sufficient showing for the request to reopen discovery.  The motion is granted.
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
reopen discovery.
All discovery deadlines are reset based on the trial date of
August 28, 2024.
Moving Party to give notice.