 Case Number:  21STCV21454    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Second Deposition filed by Defendant  Uber Technologies, Inc.   Tentative The motion is  granted in part. BACKGROUND   This case arises out of an  automobile accident on August 26, 2019, near the intersection of Babcock Avenue  and Kittridge Street in Los Angeles. On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Dominique Johnston (“Plaintiff”) filed  her complaint against John Fitzgerald Gomillion (“Gomillion”), Uber  Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 through 20 asserting causes of action  for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  Uber and  Gomillion filed their answers on January 3 and January 11, 2022.  On February 27,  2024, Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed this motion to compel  the second deposition of Plaintiff.  Uber  also seeks sanctions.  The motion was  originally set for hearing on May 29; the hearing was advanced to April 11 on  Uber’s (opposed) ex parte application. On March 28, Plaintiff  filed her opposition. On April 4, Uber filed its reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “Any party may obtain discovery … by  taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to  the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure  sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other  things) what must be included in a deposition notice, when and where  depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice must be served.   “The service of a deposition notice …  is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an  officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to  testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”   (Id., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) Section 2025.410, subdivision (a),  requires any party to serve a written objection at least three days before the  deposition if the party contends that a deposition notice does not comply with  the provisions of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280. “If, after service of a deposition  notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or  employee of a party, or  a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid  objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to  proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document, electronically  stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the  party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance  and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice.”  (Id.,  §  2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good  cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to  appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the  petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)    When a motion to compel is granted, “the  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the  deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)   In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section  2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to  include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of  discovery.”  Where a party or attorney  has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary  sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,  incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610  provides, in relevant part:  (a) Once any party has taken the deposition  of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the  party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition  notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that  deponent.  (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good  cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the  parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate  that a subsequent deposition be taken. DISCUSSION Plaintiff’s  deposition was taken in this case on October 11, 2022.  (Brick Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. 3.)  At the time, trial was scheduled for December  6, 2022.   At her  deposition, Plaintiff stated that she did not miss work after the accident  (except for a week or two after fusion surgery), that she had not received any  significant treatment for a concussion, that she had not been told that she sustained  a traumatic brain injury, that she had not received any cognitive therapy, that  she did not have any mental injuries from the accident, and that she had not  received any mental health therapy.  (Id.,  Exh. 3, at pp. 96, 110, 123.)  At some  point after the deposition, Plaintiff sought treatment from a new provider for  neurological injuries.  (Mem., at p.  3.)  In July 2023, however, Plaintiff  asserted new claims for the ”subsequent onset of a number of neurological symptoms”  and lost work.  (Mem., at p. 2.) Uber has shown  good cause for a second deposition of Plaintiff.  The Court expects that Plaintiff will be  permitted to testify at trial about the treatments she received, and any symptoms  that developed, after her deposition in October 2022.  Uber should be permitted to conduct discovery  through a second deposition of Plaintiff on these matters as well so that it is  not unfairly surprised by her testimony at trial. The Court  understands that Plaintiff contends that Uber had received discovery prior to  the October 2022 deposition that was sufficient to put Uber on notice of the nature  and extent of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.   That may or may not be the case, but there was no way for Plaintiff to  testify in October 2022 about symptoms that developed, and treatments that she  received, only after the deposition was taken. The motion is  granted in part.  The Court grants leave for  Uber to notice a second deposition of Plaintiff, subject to the following  restrictions: (1) the deposition will not exceed two hours (excluding breaks);  and (2) the questioning will be limited to the following topics: (a) treatments  that Plaintiff received after October 11, 2022; (b) symptoms or injuries  that developed or worsened after October 11, 2022; (c) lost work or earnings  after October 11, 2022 (including any claim for future lost earnings). With the  examination so limited, the Court finds that the second deposition will not be  unduly burdensome, cumulative, or unfairly prejudicial to Plaintiff.The request for sanctions is denied.  Plaintiff and counsel have acted with substantial justification in opposing the request for leave to take a second deposition. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Uber’s motion for leave to notice a second deposition of Plaintiff. The second deposition of  Plaintiff is subject to the following restrictions: (1) the deposition will not  exceed two hours (excluding breaks); and (2) the questioning will be limited to  the following topics: (a) treatments that Plaintiff received after October 11,  2022; (b) symptoms or injuries that developed or worsened after October  11, 2022; (c) lost work or earnings after October 11, 2022 (including any claim  for future lost earnings). Moving party is to give notice.