  Case Number:  20STCV48692    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  57 Hicham Zerhouni ("Zerhouni") and Wafae Bencherkroun (collectively, "the Plaintiffs") owned a 2016 Mercedes Benz S550 ("the Mercedes"), which was insured under an automobile insurance policy ("the Policy") issued by State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company ("State Farm").   In March 2020, the Plaintiffs authorized Adam Lowe, a friend of Zerhouni's, to drive the Mercedes.  On March 26, 2020, Lowe informed the Plaintiffs that, while driving the Mercedes, he was involved in a collision in which the Mercedes rolled over ("the "Crash").   The next day, the Plaintiffs made a claim to State Farm under the Policy for coverage of the damage to the Mercedes that resulted from the Crash.   After investigating the Crash, State Farm denied coverage.  In denying coverage, State Farm concluded that (1) the Crash did not occur as reported and Plaintiff's claimed losses arising from the Crash thus were not covered under the Policy, and (2) Plaintiffs breached their obligations under the Policy by misrepresenting and concealing information that was material to State Farm's investigation.   Following State Farm's denial of coverage, the Plaintiffs sued State Farm.  Their operative Second Amended Complaint ("SAC") asserts causes of action against State Farm for (1) breach of contract in denying coverage under the Policy for the Crash, and (2) bad faith denial of coverage.  Also, as relevant here, Plaintiffs are seeking an award of punitive damages on their claim for bad faith denial of coverage. 

Pending before the Court is the Plaintiffs' motion for an order pursuant to Civil Code Section 3295(c) permitting them to conduct pretrial discovery into profits State Farm earned from its its allegedly wrongful course of conduct in denying the Plaintiffs' claim and State Farm's financial condition.  (All statutory references herein are to the Civil Code.) That pretrial discovery is intended to provide evidence under Section 3294 bearing on the amount of punitive damages the jury could award Plaintiffs if the jury first determines that State Farm acted  maliciously, fraudulently, or with oppression in denying Plaintiffs' claim.  The Court is denying Plaintiffs' Section 3295(c) motion.

The general rule in Section 3295(c) is that pretrial discovery into the defendant's profits generated from allegedly bad acts and the defendant's financial condition is not allowed for purposes of a claim under Section 3294 that the defendant is liable for punitive damages.  Section 3295(c) contains an exception to that rule for circumstances when, upon a motion by the plaintiff and based on affidavits presented by both the plaintiff and the defendant, "the court finds  . .. that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim [for punitive damages] pursuant to Section 3294.  The phrase "substantial probability" for purposes of Section 3295(c) motions has been interpreted to mean "very likely," or "a strong likelihood," which is a higher standard of proof tha "more likely than not," which corresponds to the preponderance of evidence standard that generally applies in civil litigation and that would have applied to Section 3295(c) motions as well had the Legislature used the phrase "reasonable probability," or simply the word "probability."  (Jabro v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758 ["Jabro"].)  In determining whether the plaintiff has satisfied the substantial probability standard, the court is to weigh the competing affidavits submitted in connection with the Section 3295(c) motion.  (Ibid.)

In deciding the Plaintiffs' Section 3295(c) motion in this case, this Court has evaluated the affidavits of Hicham Zerhouni and David Easton that the Plaintiffs submitted in support of their motion.  Zerhouni's declaration is the same one that the Plaintiffs submitted in support of their successful opposition to State Farm's motion for summary judgement.  The Court considered the Easton Declaration even though, as State Farm correctly observed in objections to it,  Plaintiffs did not timely file the Easton Declaration.  The Court is overruling State Farm's other objections to the Easton Declaration.  The Court notes that Plaintiffs failed to file a reply brief in support of their motion.  State Farm apparently was served with the reply brief because State Farm objected to it on the ground that it was untimely filed.  The reply brief is not on the Court's docket in the case.   

On the other side of the ledger, the Court evaluated the affidavit of Ashley Troche and excerpts from the deposition transcripts of Amanda O'Berry and Lola Hogan attached to the affidavit of Angela Martin that State Farm submitted along with its opposition to the Plaintiffs' motion.  

Having weighed the competing affidavits submitted by both sides, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to establish that there is a substantial probability that they will prevail on their Section 3294 claim that State Farm acted maliciously, fraudulently, and with oppression and therefore is liable to Plaintiffs for punitive damages.  In denying State Farm's summary judgment motion earlier in this case, the Court determined that Zerhouni's declaration alone created a disputed issue of material fact that precluded entry of summary judgment for State Farm on Plaintiff's claims for bad faith denial of coverage and punitive damages.  Had the Easton Declaration been part of the Plaintiffs' package in opposition to State Farm's summary judgment motion, there  would have been even more disputed facts precluding entry of summary judgment.  But the existence of disputed issues of material fact on whether State Farm could be liable for punitive damages is not the same thing as facts establishing a substantial probability that State Farm will be held for liable punitive damages.  (Jabro, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 758 [noting distinction between summary judgement standard and Section 3295(c) standard].)  The Plaintiffs were able to fend off summary judgment on their entitlement to punitive damages against State Farm.  They have not shown, however, that there is a substantial probability that a jury will find them entitled to such an award.