  Case Number:  22LBCV00894    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Claire Stanford filed
this action against Defendants, The Palisades Association, Inc., Long Beach
Home Solutions, Inc., Boris Bogomolny, and Renee Bogomolny for damages arising
out of a fall down a staircase at her apartment complex.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
a.    
Prior Hearing
The Court was previously scheduled
to hear this motion on 10/17/23.  Prior
to the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling noting Plaintiff had failed
to file timely reply papers, and indicating the motion would be denied for the
reasons set forth in the opposition papers. 

 
On 10/17/23, Plaintiff appeared at
the hearing, and at the conclusion of the hearing, the Court continued the
motion to 12/14/23, ordered the parties to meet and confer further, and ordered
the parties to file a joint statement of items in dispute on or before
12/04/23.  The next day, on 10/18/23,
Plaintiff filed an untimely reply to Defendant’s opposition.  
 
b.     Analysis
It is unclear from reviewing the
Court’s docket exactly how the motion was ultimately continued from 12/14/23 to
2/13/24.  The Court presumes Plaintiff used
the online system to continue the hearing. 
Since the 10/18/23, no party has filed any document in connection with
the motion.  The parties have not filed the
court-ordered joint statement of items in dispute.  The Court presumes the parties have resolved
all issues, and takes the motion off calendar. 

 
The Court notes that the parties
have another MTCF scheduled for 5/14/24. 
Trial, however, is scheduled for 4/15/24.  The Court is not continuing the trial date at
this time, and asks the parties to work together to resolve any outstanding
discovery issues prior to the scheduled trial date.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   