 Case Number:  23LBCV00519    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Hortencia Gallegos, Esperanza Klevos, and Jose Gallegos, by
and through his successor-in-interest, Hortencia Gallegos, filed this action
against Defendants, Memorial Care Long Beach Medical Center, et al. for medical
malpractice.  Plaintiffs allege
Defendants are liable for the wrongful death of Jose Gallegos due to their
medical negligence.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.     Moving
Argument
At this time, Defendant, Dr. Mehrdad Saliminejad, M.D. moves for
summary judgment, contending he complied with the standard of care at all
times, and nothing he did caused or contributed to Decedent’s death.  
b.    
Law
Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.    
Law
Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish
a prima facie case.  [Citations.]  That there is a distinction between a
reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical 'possibility' needs little
discussion.  There can be many possible
‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of circumstances which can produce an
injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the
absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely than
not that the injury was a result of its action. 
This is the outer limit of inference upon which an issue may be
submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing
Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.    
Moving
Burden
Defendant supports his motion with the expert declaration of Jacob
Korula, M.D.  Dr. Korula sets forth his
expert credentials, states what records he reviewed, details Defendant’s care
and treatment of Decedent, and ultimately concludes that Defendant’s care and
treatment of Decedent complied with the standard of care and did not cause or
contribute to Decedent’s death.
 
The Expert Declaration of Dr. Korula
is sufficient to meet Defendant’s moving burden to establish he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  The burden
therefore shifts to Plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of material fact in
this regard.  
 
e.    
Opposing
Burden
Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition
to the motion on 1/30/24.  Plaintiffs
therefore necessarily failed to meet the shifted burden, and the motion is
granted.
f.     
Notice
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.