 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint includes various causes of action and spans 78
pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction
providing for various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory
damages.  
 
2.     Demurrer
(Defendant, Daniel Huerta)
a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he and
Plaintiff met and conferred by email, and have previously met and conferred on the
same issues, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of the pleading
challenges.  The Court will therefore rule
on the demurrer on its merits.
 
c.     Prior
Ruling
The Court, on 11/07/23, heard a
demurrer by Defendants, Appleby Property Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association,
and Ara Agopain.  The Court sustained the
demurrer without leave to amend on the ground that Plaintiff failed to allege compliance
with IDR requirements prior to commencing the action.  Specifically, the Court held:
Civil Code §5950 is found in
Division Four, Part 5, Chapter 10 of the Civil Code.  Division Four is entitled General
Provisions.  Part 5 is entitled Common Interest
Developments.  Chapter 10 is entitled
Dispute Resolution and Enforcement.  §5950
provides:
(a) At the time of commencement of
an enforcement action, the party commencing the action shall file with the
initial pleading a certificate stating that one or more of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1) Alternative dispute resolution
has been completed in compliance with this article.
(2) One of the other parties to the
dispute did not accept the terms offered for alternative dispute resolution.
(3) Preliminary or temporary
injunctive relief is necessary.
(b) Failure to file a certificate
pursuant to subdivision (a) is grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike
unless the court finds that dismissal of the action for failure to comply with
this article would result in substantial prejudice to one of the parties.
 
Defendants demur to the entire
action, contending Plaintiff failed to file the required certificate.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer,
contends his FAC, at 2:9-13, 48:18-49:9, and 72:1-9 sufficiently alleges
compliance with the Civil Code.  At
2:9-13, Plaintiff alleges, “Pursuant to Civil Code (“CC”) §5950, Plaintiff made
significant alternative dispute resolution (“ADR”) efforts and will continue
doing so.  However, at this time “One of
the other parties to the dispute did not accept the terms offered for [ADR]”.  Additionally, “Preliminary or temporary
injunctive relief is necessary” as part of the remedy.  A certificate pursuant to CC §5950(a) is
being filed herewith.
 
At page 72, Plaintiff provides a
certificate stating the above.  
The problem with Plaintiff’s
allegations is that this is his First Amended Complaint.  His original complaint was silent in this
regard.  Plaintiff was required, per Code,
to engage in these efforts PRE-filing of his complaint.  At minimum, he needs to allege he engaged in
these efforts BEFORE he filed his complaint. 
He never alleges he did so. 
Plaintiff was required, per Code, to allege compliance prior to
COMMENCEMENT of his action.  
 
The Court has already denied
Plaintiff’s requests for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief.  The Court therefore finds no “substantial
prejudice” would result if it sustained the demurrer on this ground.  Plaintiff is free to pursue IDR in good faith
and then re-file any claims if IDR is not successful.  The demurrer on this ground is
sustained.  Because this is a purely
legal issue, leave to amend is denied.
 
d.     Current
Demurrer
On calendar today is Defendant,
Daniel Huerta’s demurrer to the FAC. 
Huerta argues, among other contentions, that Plaintiff’s action must be
dismissed due to failure to comply with the pre-filing IDR requirements.  The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend for the reasons set forth fully in the 11/07/23 order on the co-defendants’
demurrer.  
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Huerta’s motion to strike is moot
in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
 
4.     Discovery
Motions (Defendant, Universal Ironworks Services, LLC)
Defendant propounded form
interrogatories (FROGs), special interrogatories (SROGs), requests for
production of documents (RPDs), and requests for admissions (RFAs) on Plaintiff
on 9/19/23.  To date, Plaintiff has not
served responses to any of the propounded discovery.  Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling
Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and deeming
the RFAs admitted.
 
Defendant’s motions to compel are
granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve
verified responses to SROGs, FROGs, and RPDs, without objections, within ten
days.  CCP §§2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).  
 
Defendant’s motion to deem RFAs admitted
is also granted.  CCP §2033.280(a), (b). 
 
Defendant does not seek imposition
of sanctions, and therefore none are imposed.
 
5.     Notice
Huerta is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   