  Case Number:  19STCP02973    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  39 John Doe v. Timothy P. White, et
al.
Case No. 19STCP02973
Motion to Amend Judgment
 
            Petitioner John Doe (“Petitioner”)
filed a petition for writ of administrative mandamus against Timothy P. White,
in his official capacity as Chancellor of the California State University, as
well as the Board of Trustees of the California State University (collectively,
“Respondents”).  Petitioner alleged that
he did not receive a fair administrative hearing relating to allegations of
sexual misconduct.  The court (Beckloff,
J.) denied the writ and entered judgment in favor of Respondents.  Petitioner filed a timely appeal, and the
District Court of Appeal, Division Five, affirmed the judgment.  Now, Respondents seek to amend the judgment
to enter costs in the amount of $5,813.70, and to include Petitioner’s true
name on the judgment.  The motion is
granted in part and denied in part. 
 
            A.        Costs
  
 
            The court grants the motion as it
relates to costs.  Respondents filed and
served an amended memorandum of costs on April 15, 2022, claiming a total of
$5,813.70.  Petitioner did not file a
timely motion to tax costs.  “After the time has passed for a motion
to strike or tax costs or for determination of that motion, the clerk must
immediately enter the costs on the judgment.” 
(CRC Rule 3.1700(b)(4).)  The
judgment signed by the court and filed April 18, 2022, has not been formally
amended by the court to specify the amount of costs.  Accordingly, the court will correct this clerical
error and enter the $5,813.70 in costs in the judgment.  (See CCP § 473(d); In re Marriage of
Boblitt (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1028.) 

 
            Petitioner
argues that he has an approved fee waiver on file.  Nonetheless, Petitioner did not file a timely
motion to strike or tax the cost award, waiving any objection to the costs
claimed by Respondents.  (Douglas v.
Willis (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 287, 289-90 [“the ‘failure to file a motion to tax
costs constitutes a waiver of the right to object.”].)  Further, Petitioner’s fee waiver only applies
to fees and costs imposed by the court.  Petitioner
cites no authority for the proposition that his fee waiver erases Respondents’
recovery of costs against him after Respodents prevailed.  Nor does Petitioner identify specific costs
that would fall within the scope of the fee waiver.  Therefore, Petitioner’s argument lacks merit.
 
            B.        Petitioner’s True Name 
 
            Respondents’
motion is denied.  Respondents cite no
authority that the court may amend a judgment to reflect the true name of a
party who proceeded with a pseudonym in a case involving allegations of sexual
misconduct.  The only case cited by
Respondents—People v. Landon White Bail Bonds (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 66—does not
address this issue.  Although Petitioner
did not apply for leave of court to proceed in this manner, Respondents never
challenged his use of a pseudonym. 
Therefore, the motion is denied.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Respondents’ motion to amend the
judgment is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         The court grants the motion to the
extent it seeks to amend the judgment to include $5,813.70 in costs.
 
            3.         The court denies the motion to the
extent it seeks to amend the judgment to reflect Petitioner’s true name.
 
            4.         Respondents’ counsel shall lodge an
amended judgment consistent with this order. 

 
            5.         Respondents’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.                             