  Case Number:  22STCV13449    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, March 13,
2024
Case Name:                            Henning, Kramer, Ruiz & Singh, LLP v. Seretan.
Case No.:                                22STCV13449
Motion:                                  Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings
Moving Party:                         Defendant Wendy Seretan
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Henning, Kramer,
Ruiz & Singh, LLP
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is CONTINUED. The parties shall file a
Joint Statement no later than seven (7) court days before the hearing
identifying the remaining issues, if any, after the parties meet and confer.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff Henning,
Kramer, Ruiz & Singh, LLP (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against Defendant
Wendy Seretan (“Defendant”) for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) conversion, (4) quantum meruit, and
(5) unjust enrichment. This action arises out of unpaid attorney fees.
            On February 15, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for judgment on the pleadings.
            On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition.
            On March 6, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply.
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state any causes
of action against her.
Before filing a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and confer
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to
determine if an agreement can be reached. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) However,
a determination by the Court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
is not grounds to grant or deny the motion. (Id. at (a)(4).)  
            Plaintiff points out that Defendant
has not sufficiently met and conferred prior to filing this motion. Defendant
sent a meet and confer email on February 13, 2024, two days before filing this
motion. CCP § 439 requires that the parties meet and confer at least five
days before the motion is filed. Further, Defendant sent the meet and
confer email to Plaintiff’s counsel at the time, Mr. Lim. In reply, Defendant
admits that Mr. Lim replied after the motion was filed that he was going to be
substituted as counsel of record. There is no evidence that any substantive
meet and confer ever took place. Regardless, the meet and confer attempt was
not timely and Plaintiff has raised this issue in opposing the motion.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Defendant has not satisfied her meet and confer obligation. 
Accordingly, the motion is CONTINUED. The
Court orders the parties to meet and confer further regarding the issues raised
in the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. The parties shall file a Joint
Statement no later than seven (7) court days before the hearing identifying the
remaining issues, if any, and the parties’ positions on those issues. The
parties’ positions may be identified with citation to the briefing already
filed. 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is CONTINUED. The parties shall file
a Joint Statement no later than seven (7) court days before the hearing
identifying the remaining issues, if any, after the parties meet and confer.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 