 Case Number:  23STCV06398    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, March 13,
2024
Case Name:                            Manuel Gomez, Jr.
v. MFROST, Inc.
Case No.:                                23STCV06398
Motion:                                  Demurrer with
Motion to Strike 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff/X-Defendant
Manuel Gomez, Jr. 
Responding Party:                  Defendant/X-Complainant Ray
Frost 
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Plaintiff/X-Defendant
Gomez’s demurrer to Defendant/X-Complainant Ray Frost’s Cross-Complaint is
overruled.  Gomez’s motion to strike is
granted as to the attorney’s fees request and denied as to the emotional distress
and punitive damages claim.
                                                Moving
party to give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff was employed by Defendants
at Madeline Garden, a restaurant in Pasadena, CA.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to pay
him minimum wage and required him to live at Defendants Michelle and Ray
Frost’s front house in order to effectively perform his duties at Madeline
Gardens.  Plaintiff alleges the front house
was under construction, not up to Code, lacked a Certificate of Occupancy and
was overall, uninhabitable.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants required him to perform repairs on the front house as
well.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also
began deducting $1800 in rent from his wages. 

            Plaintiff alleges he suffered a
severe injury due to the uninhabitable condition of Defendants’ front
house.  Plaintiff alleges he nearly lost
his hand and can no longer use his hand. 

            Plaintiff alleges Defendants also
fraudulently used his personal information without his consent or authorization
to obtain COVID 19 benefits, stimulus relief and food stamps.  
            On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants MFROST, Inc. d/b/a Madeline Garden, Michelle Chen
Frost d/b/a Madeline Garden and Ray Frost d/b/a Madeline Garden.  Plaintiff alleges (1) unpaid overtime; (2)
unpaid minimum wages; (3) non-compliant wage statements; (4) wages not timely
paid during and upon separate of employment; (5) illegal tip collection; (6)
unpaid meal period premiums; (7) unpaid rest period premiums; (8) violation of
Business & Professions Code §17200, et seq.; (9) failure to provide employment
records in violation of Labor Code §§1198.5 and 432.7; (10) wrongful eviction;
(11) conversion; (12) uninhabitable conditions; (13) negligence; and (14)
premises liability.  
            On October 20, 2023, Defendant Ray
Frost filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Gomez.  Defendant Ray Frost alleges (1) conversion;
(2) private nuisance; and (3) trespass.  
            On February 8, 2024, Defendant
Michelle Chen filed her operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC).  Defendant Michelle Chen alleges (1)
conversion; (2) private nuisance; (3) trespass; (4) assault; and (5)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            On February 26, 2024, Gomez filed the
instant demurrer and motion to strike portions of Ray Frost’s
cross-complaint.  On February 29, 2024,
Ray Frost filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike his
cross-complaint. On March 4, 2024, Gomez filed replies to Ray Frost’s
oppositions to his demurrer and motion to strike.  
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, the defects must be apparent on
the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (CCP §§430.30, 430.70; Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him.  (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) 
The court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations.  (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)  A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.”  (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964)
226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)
Application
to Facts
            Parties’ Position
            Gomez argues Ray’s conversion cause
of action fails, because Ray admits in his complaint that he illegally locked
Gomez out of his residence.  Gomez argues
Ray cannot demonstrate that he had a right to possession of the property or
that Gomez committed any type of wrongful act to constitute conversion.  Gomez argues he still had a right to possession
of the property.  Gomez argues there are
also no facts alleged that would qualify as conversion or property that is
capable of conversion.
            Gomez argues the private nuisance
claim fails to identify the purported nuisance, whether it is continuing and/or
permanent and/or when the alleged nuisance took place.  Gomez argues the allegations imply the
nuisance is no longer ongoing and therefore cannot serve the basis of a private
nuisance action.
            Gomez argues the trespass claim
fails for the same reason as the conversion claim.  Gomez argues Ray cannot establish that he had
an interest in the exclusive possession of the property.  Gomez argues he was illegally evicted without
process and by changing of the locks. 
Gomez argues he still had the right of possession of that property.
            Gomez argues Ray’s request for
attorney’s fees should be stricken, because there is no contract between the
parties that provides for attorney’s fees. 
Gomez argues Ray also fails to identify any contract or statute that
provides for recovery of attorneys’ fees. 

            Gomez argues the request for
emotional distress damages should be stricken. 
Gomez argues none of the causes of action provide for recovery of
emotional distress damages.
            Gomez argues there is also no basis
for punitive damages alleged.  Gomez
argues the cross-complaint merely alleges that Plaintiff refused to vacate the
front house upon demand, that Defendants changed the locks of the property, but
Plaintiff continued to try to use his key to access the property where he lived
for years.  Gomez argues these
allegations do not support a claim of punitive damages against him.  
            In opposition, Ray argues the
conversion claim is sufficiently stated based on Gomez’s refusal to return
Ray’s key to him, Gomez’s refusal to leave to property when asked and Gomez’s inviting
an unauthorized person to live with him at the property.  Ray argues Gomez also stole his personal
property and made unauthorized alterations to the property. 
            Ray argues the nuisance claim is
sufficiently pleaded.  Ray argues Gomez’s
alleged tenant status does not preclude him from suing Gomez for nuisance.  Ray argues the location of the nuisance is
clearly identified, as is the nature of the nuisance.  
            Ray argues trespass is sufficiently
alleged.  Ray argues he alleges Gomez
entered onto the subject property without his permission, stayed there and
invited unauthorized persons to stay there, stored unwanted items on the
property, refused to remove them when asked and refused to leave when told to
leave.
            Ray argues the motion to strike
should also be denied.  While Ray
concedes that he is not entitled to attorney’s fees, he maintains he is
entitled to seek emotional distress damages based on the nuisance claim.  Ray argues Gomez’s conduct was outrageous and
would reasonably cause emotional distress. 
Ray argues Gomez’s conduct was also malicious and oppressive, such that
punitive damages are properly awarded.  
            Ray asks that the court grant leave
to amend if it chooses to sustain demurrer or grant the motion to strike.  
            In reply, Gomez reiterates Ray’s
admission that he unlawfully locked Gomez out of his apartment without legal
process.  Gomez argues this admission is
fatal to all of Ray’s claims.  Gomez
argues the nuisance claim fails because the nuisance is not described or
alleged.  Gomez argues the alleged
nuisance activity is not ongoing and therefore cannot form the basis of a
nuisance claim.  Gomez argues the
trespass claim fails on its face, because Gomez was illegally evicted from his
property.  Gomez argues he still had the
right to possession when he allegedly trespassed.   
            Gomez argues the attorney’s fees
request must be stricken, as Ray concedes he is not entitled to them.  Gomez argues there is no basis for punitive
damages or emotional distress damages based on the cross-complaint allegations.

            Conversion 
            “Conversion is the wrongful exercise
of dominion over the property of another. 
The elements of a conversion are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right
to possession of the property at the time of the conversion; (2) the
defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.  It is not necessary that
there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged
converter has applied the property to his own use.”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 441, 451-452.)
            Gomez argues the cross-complaint
establishes a complete defense to the conversion action based on Ray’s
admission that he changed the locks to the subject property where Gomez was
living.  Gomez argues Ray’s use of
self-help eviction negates Ray’s allegations of conversion.  
            Ray’s conversion claim is based on
Gomez’s wrongful exercise of dominion and possession of certain items of
personal property, not real property.  (Cross-Complaint,
¶48.)  Ray identifies these items of
personal property as house tools, residence keys and various personal property
located at 510 N. Huntington Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754.  (Id.) 
Ray’s conversion claim is not based on “conversion” of the real property
located at 510 N. Huntington Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754.  
            Gomez’s demurrer to the conversion
claim is overruled.  
            Nuisance
            “Given ‘the broad definition of
nuisance,’ the independent viability of a nuisance cause of action ‘depends on
the facts of each case.”  (El Escorial
Owners' Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348.)  “Anything which is injurious to health ... or
is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property” is a nuisance.  (CC §3479; Citizens
for Odor Nuisance Abatement v. City of San Diego (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 350,
358–359.)  
            “A nuisance may be either a
negligent or an intentional tort.”  (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.)  The essential elements of private nuisance
are:
            1. Plaintiff
owned/leased/occupied/controlled the property; 
            2. Defendant created a condition
that (1) was harmful to health; (2) was indecent or offensive to the senses;
(3) was an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property; or (4) unlawfully obstructed the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway; 
            3. 
That this condition interfered with Plaintiff's use or enjoyment of his
or her land; 
            4. 
Plaintiff did not consent to the condition; 
            5. 
That an ordinary person would be reasonably annoyed or disturbed by
Defendant's conduct;
            6. That Plaintiff was harmed;
            7. That Defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff's harm; and
            8. That the seriousness of the harm
outweighs the public benefit of [name of defendant]'s conduct.  (CACI No. 2021; CC §3479; San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. v. Supr. Ct. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893.
            Nuisance is based on “[a]nything
which is…an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property…is a nuisance.”  (CC §3479.) 
A private nuisance exists where the interference or obstruction is of
the use of private land owned by the plaintiff. 
(Koll-Irvine Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.)  “So
long as the interference is substantial and unreasonable, and such as would be
offensive or inconvenient to the normal person, virtually any disturbance of
the enjoyment of the property may amount to a nuisance.  An interference need not directly damage the
land or prevent its use to constitute a nuisance; private plaintiffs have
successfully maintained nuisance actions against airports for interferences
caused by noise, smoke and vibrations from flights over their homes and against
a sewage treatment plant for interference caused by noxious odors.”  (Id. (“[A] private nuisance action
cannot be maintained for an interference in the use and enjoyment of land
caused solely by the fear of a future injury”).)  
            “An action for private nuisance is
designed to redress a substantial and unreasonable invasion of one's interest
in the free use and enjoyment of one's property.  The invasion may be intentional and
unreasonable. It may be unintentional but caused by negligent or reckless  conduct; or it may result from an abnormally
dangerous activity for which there is strict liability. On any of these bases
the defendant may be liable. On the other hand, the invasion may be intentional
but reasonable; or it may be entirely accidental and not fall within any of the
categories mentioned above. 
Determination whether something, not deemed a nuisance per se, is a
nuisance in fact in a particular instance, is a question for the trier of
fact.”  (Hellman v. La Cumbre Golf
& Country Club (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1230–1231.)
            Ray alleges the nature of the
nuisance maintained by Gomez at the subject property included the following:  installation of large audio systems, storage
of dangerous firearms and dozens of cases of ammunition at the residence,
destruction of floor panels and walls to install surveillance cameras, covering
up the residence’s windows with black film and repainting the interior walls of
the residence, threats of violence directed at other participants in the rehab
program and Ray’s family. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶22-26.)  Ray
alleges that he owns the subject property and allowed Gomez to live at the
subject property as a part of a substance abuse rehabilitation program.  (Id. at ¶16.)  Ray alleges he did not consent to the
creation of the conditions and that a reasonable person would be annoyed or
disturbed by the nuisance.  (Id.
at ¶¶58-59.)  Ray sufficiently alleges
the elements of nuisance.  Gomez fails to
cite any authority holding that a nuisance must be ongoing in order for a
plaintiff to sue for damages arising from a private nuisance.
            Trespass
            “Trespass is an unlawful
interference with possession of property. 
The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or control
of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or negligent entry
onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of
permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor
in causing the harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery
Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261–262.)  
            Ray alleges that Gomez entered the
subject property and exceeded Ray’s permission for entry by engaging in the
conduct alleged at ¶¶20-38.  (FAC,
¶¶20-38.)  Ray states a claim for
trespass.  
            Gomez argues Ray’s self-help
eviction is a total defense to any alleged trespass, because he had a legal
right to be on the premises.  However,
Gomez ignores Ray’s allegation that Gomez only had permission to live there
alone, not with his girlfriend, and Ray never gave him permission to alter the
premises in the way he did or to store weapons and ammunition there.  Gomez also ignores the allegation that Ray
revoked Gomez’s permission to live there, and Gomez ignored Ray’s revocation
and request that he leave.  Gomez fails
to cite any authority holding that Ray’s self-help eviction is a complete
defense to Ray’s claim for trespass damages. 

            Moreover, it is unclear what legal
relationship or rights Gomez had to the subject property.  Was Gomez a tenant, a licensee or a
guest?  These issues are not clear from
the complaint.  A demurrer cannot be
sustained on grounds that the complaint may be barred by an affirmative defense.  (Roman v. County of Los Angeles (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 316, 324-325 (“If the dates establishing the running of the
statute of limitations do not clearly appear in the complaint, there is no
ground for general demurrer”); CrossTalk Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 635 (“demurrer based on an affirmative defense
cannot properly be sustained where the action might be barred by the defense,
but is not necessarily barred.”)  Demurrer
can only be sustained based on a defense if the cause of action is clearly and
affirmatively barred based on the face of the complaint.  (CrossTalk Productions, Inc., supra,
65 Cal.App.4th at 635.)  Gomez fails to
satisfy this high standard.  
            Gomez’s demurrer to the trespass
cause of action is overruled.  
            Motion to Strike
            Gomez’s motion to strike attorney’s
fees from the cross-complaint is granted. 
Ray concedes he has no basis to request attorney’s fees. 
            Ray has successfully alleged claims
for conversion, nuisance and trespass. 
Ray has alleged facts that would rise to the level of malice and
oppression based on Gomez’s alleged intentional alteration and destruction of
the subject property, his refusal to vacate the premises despite Ray’s request
that he do so, his intentional conversion of personal property and his alleged
threats of physical violence and arson.  (Cross-complaint,
¶¶20-38.)  As such, the punitive damages
claim is sufficiently pleaded, as is Ray’s claim for emotional distress damages.  
            Gomez’s motion to strike the emotional distress and
punitive damages claims are denied.  
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff/X-Defendant Gomez’s
demurrer to Defendant/X-Complainant Ray Frost’s Cross-Complaint is
overruled.  Gomez’s motion to strike is
granted as to the attorney’s fees request and denied as to the emotional
distress and punitive damages claim. 
Gomez to answer in 20 days. 
            X-Defendant Gomez to give notice.
            