 Case Number:  22STCV20796    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, March 13,
2024
Case Name:                            Webb v. Allied Universal Security, et al.
Case No.:                                22STCV20796
Motion:                                  Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
Moving Party:                         Defendant Allied
Universal Security Services
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Charles Webb
(untimely)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is
MOOT. Sanctions are denied.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On June 27, 2022, Plaintiff Charles
Webb (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Allied Universal
Security Services (“Defendant”), asserting seven wage and hour causes of action
for failure to pay earned wages, failure to pay minimum wage, failure to
provide meal and rest breaks, failure to furnish complete and accurate wage
statements, nonpayment of wages when due, waiting time penalties, and violation
of California Unfair Competition Law.
            On February 13, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to compel responses to request for production of documents,
set one.
            On March 6, 2024, Defendant filed a
notice of non-opposition to the motion and a supplemental declaration. 
            On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. The opposition is untimely. However, the Court in its discretion
considers it as the opposition states that Plaintiff served responses after the
motion was filed, and Defendant’s supplemental declaration filed on March 6
acknowledges this. The Court may hear from Defendant at the hearing regarding
any arguments in response. 
DISCUSSION
            CCP §2031.300(b) states that “[i]f a
party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it,” “[t]he party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” 
Failure to respond “waives any objection
to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)
The court “shall” impose monetary
sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).
            Here,
as acknowledged by both parties, Plaintiff has served responses to the
requests. Thus, the motion is MOOT. Any concerns regarding the responses may be
raised in a noticed motion to compel further responses by Defendant. 
            As
to sanctions, the Court finds that they are unwarranted and imposition would be
unjust based on Plaintiff’s opposition and Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration.
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel represent that there was an initial
miscommunication regarding the responses. Upon receipt of the responses to form
interrogatories and request for admission, sets one, Defendant made Plaintiff
aware that there were still outstanding responses to the request for production
of documents, set one, including document production. Plaintiff informed
Defendant that this was not known, documented, or calendared properly by counsel
and would be worked on immediately. Defendant and Plaintiff had an open line of
communication regarding the responses and document production as well as an
extension via email and phone. Further, Plaintiff represents that he was under
the impression that there was a stay on the ongoing discovery process while
engaging in settlement negotiations based on telephone conversations with
Defense counsel. When Defendant filed this motion, and Plaintiff was made aware
that the discovery process was not on hold, he showed good faith and
immediately served responses on the same date as well as reached out to Defense
Counsel to clarify. Plaintiff served a verification to the responses three days
later. Plaintiff represents that he was confused as to why Defendant would not
inform him that discovery was still expected and outstanding at this time via
email or telephone as they were actively in communication that way regarding
potential resolution. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that this was not
a misuse of the discovery process, and the failure to timely serve responses
was based upon a misunderstanding. Further, responses were served immediately
after notice of the motion. Accordingly, sanction would be unjust under the
circumstances. 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is MOOT. Sanctions
are denied. 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 