  Case Number:  22STCV22479    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 11-6-24
Case 22STCV22479
Trial Date: 5-20-24
 
VACATE SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Albert Agdaian, pro per
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant, Renaissance Maintenance
Corp.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Vacate Order Granting Summary Judgment on the
Complaint
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Albert Agdaian owned certain real property at 7373
Perigord Court, Tujunga. The common areas were managed by homeowner association
Defendant Renaissance Maintenance Corp. In March 2022, sold the residence. Upon
the close of escrow, $67,153 was paid to Defendant homeowner association for
purported landscape repairs. Plaintiff contends no repairs were actually
completed, and challenges the reasonableness of the amount. 
 
On July 12, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for
Intentional Interference with Contract, Conversion, and Declaratory Relief.
Defendant answered on November 4, 2022. 
 
On April 18, 2024, the court granted the unopposed motion
for summary judgment in favor of Defendant Renaissance Maintenance Corp. The
court entered judgment on May 16, 2024. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted. 
The court takes judicial notice of the judgments, and the
existence of the pleadings, but cannot consider the content of any filed
pleading for the truth of the matter asserted. 
 
Plaintiff Albert Agdaian, in pro per, moves to vacate the
order granting summary judgment. Plaintiff moves on grounds on mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Plaintiff maintains former counsel passed
away on March 1, 2024. Plaintiff was late in discovering the existence of the
motion and therefore serving any opposition. Defendant Renaissance Maintenance
Corp. in opposition cites to the basis of the successful motion for summary
judgment, the order deeming admissions admitted. The January 24, 2024, order
was entered while Plaintiff’s counsel was still alive and representing
Plaintiff. Defendant contends Plaintiff should present a malpractice claim
against the estate of deceased counsel rather than seeking to bring Defendant
back into the action following entry of judgment. The court electronic filing
system shows no reply on file.
 
The motion was filed on July 24, 2022—97 days after the
order granting summary judgment and 69 days after entry of judgment. Although
not specifically identified, a party seeking relief
from summary judgment may proceed under the guise of a motion for new trial on
the basis of “[a]ccident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
657(3).) The court in its discretion can consider such a basis for relief. (Sole Energy Co. v.
Petrominerals Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 187, 194; Passavanti v. Williams (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 1602, 1610.) Nevertheless, such a motion was required less than
15 days following the entry of the judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 659.) Such a motion is therefore untimely.
 
As for the requested relief under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, “[b]oth a
motion for new trial under section 1008 and a motion for relief from the
judgment under section 473 are appropriate means for seeking trial court relief
from an order granting summary judgment or adjudication.” (Mink v. Superior Court (1992)
2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)
 
A motion for reconsideration must be filed “within 10 days after service upon the party of written
notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
The motion was filed more than 10 days after the entry of
the order granting summary judgment, and after entry of the order for judgment.
The motion is therefore untimely. (Ten Eyck v. Industrial Forklifts Co. (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 540, 545; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Sequoia Ins. Co. (1989)
211 Cal.App.3d 1285, 1303.) The court therefore declines to consider the
substantive arguments regarding the basis for relief under this statutory
standard. The court therefore considers the relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
 
Plaintiff suggests the mandatory
relief provision applies given the death of counsel. The argument finds support
in that the granting of a summary judgment due, at least in part, to the lack
of any filed opposition or appearance at the hearing as a result of death of
counsel constitutes a dismissal without an opportunity to present the merits of
the claim. (Avila v. Chua (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 860, 868 disapproved of by The Urban Wildlands Group, Inc.
v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 993.) The Urban Wildlands Group, Inc. case
specifically limited the mandatory provisions to default judgments and
dismissal, and declined to more expansive definition provided to summary
judgment orders. Both holdings were issued by the Second Appellate District,
with the later case taking precedent. (Id. at p. 1000.) Other courts are also
in accord with The Urban Wildlands Group,
Inc. holding. (Prieto v. Loyola Marymount University (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 290, 297; Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 215, 228–229; Las Vegas Land & Development Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1086, 1090-1091.) 
 
The court therefore declines to utilize the mandatory
relief standard, and considers the motion under the discretionary relief provisions.
“While the motion lies within the sound discretion
of the trial court, ‘the trial court's discretion is not unlimited and must be
exercised in conformity with the spirit of the law and in a manner to subserve
and not to impede or defeat the ends of substantial justice.’ (Citation.) The law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits. Therefore, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief. When the moving party promptly seeks relief and
there is no prejudice to the opposing party, very slight evidence is required
to justify relief. We will more carefully scrutinize an order denying relief
than one which permits a trial on the merits.” (Mink v. Superior Court , supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 1343; Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at pp. 229-230; Las Vegas Land &
Development Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1092-1093.)
 
“In determining whether the attorney's mistake or
inadvertence was excusable, the court inquires whether a reasonably prudent
person might have made the same mistake under the same or similar
circumstances. (Citation.). Thus, discretionary
relief is available only from attorney error that is ‘fairly imputable to the
client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made.’ [Citation.] ‘Conduct falling
below the professional standard of care, such as failure to timely object or to
properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable. To hold otherwise
would be to eliminate the express statutory requirement of excusability and
effectively eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’ 
…
“The terms mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable
neglect warranting relief under section 473(b) are defined as follows: ‘Mistake
is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court
finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence,
general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the
law....’ (Citation.) Further, ‘[t]he term “surprise,” as used in section 473,
refers to some condition or situation in which a party ... is unexpectedly
placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.’ (Citation.) Finally, as
for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under section 473 a
litigant's neglect must have been such as might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances. The inadvertence
contemplated by the statute does not mean mere inadvertence in the abstract. If
it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify relief.” (Citation.)
…
“Generally speaking, the trial court's ruling on a
discretionary motion for relief is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (Citation.) Since ‘the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved
in favor of the party seeking relief from default.’(Citation.)
For that reason, ‘a trial court order denying relief is scrutinized more
carefully than an order permitting trial on the merits.” (Citation.) (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at pp. 229–230.)
 
The court finds the excuse, e.g. the failure to present any
opposition due to the death of counsel, meets the standard for discretionary
relief. Counsel presumably intended to oppose the motion on the substantive
merits of the motion or at least adhere to ethical standards for withdrawal and
notice to the client. The estate also failed to notify the court or otherwise
appoint a trustee to administer any existing cases pending potential
reassignment. 
 
While the motion was granted at least in part on both the
lack of opposition and the existence of the order deeming admissions admitted,
the public policy standards for a trial on the merits supports relief from the
summary judgment given the circumstances of an essentially, inadvertently
unopposed motion. The court therefore grants the motion. 
 
While Defendant
would have the court reargue the central merits of the motion in the subject
motion, the court adheres to procedure and resets the hearing for summary
judgment. The court will set a new hearing date for the motion for summary
judgment. Defendant will be ordered to serve notice of the new hearing date.
Any opposition and reply will be due pursuant to statutory guidelines of the
new hearing date.
 
Because relief is granted under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, and Plaintiff seeks to proceed on a case under the circumstances
of the order deeming the admissions admitted, the court orders payment of
$1,000 to Defense counsel in compensation for opposing the subject motion and
time spent on any reply to the opposition to the motion for summary judgment.
 
Plaintiff to give notice to all
parties.
 