 Case Number:  24STCV01461    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:11-6-24
Case
#24STCV01461
Trial
Date: 4-14-25
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Yoshinoya America, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Christina Mendoza
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On January 19, 2024, Christina Mendoza filed a Private
Attorney Generals Act (PAGA) action against Yoshinoya America, Inc. On January
29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a 170.6 challenge, thereby leading to the
reassignment of the complaint from Department 52 to Department 68. Defendant
answered the complaint on February 23, 2024.
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend and Stay of the Action
Requests
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Defendant
Yoshinoya America, Inc. (Yoshinoya) submits a demurrer to the PAGA complaint on grounds of other
pending actions. Plaintiff in opposition challenges abatement of the instant
action on grounds of differing claims between the courts brought by different
plaintiffs. Defendant in reply reiterates the basis for abatement. Defendant
also reiterate the relation back of the PAGA claim in the first amended
complaint preceding the subject action. 
 
The demurrer was filed on June 12, 2024, 110
days or three months and 20 days after the answer.
 
A
court may sustain a demurrer on grounds of abatement, where “There is another
action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (c).) Yoshinoya
seeks to abate the instant action due to a concurrent class action complaint, Martinez
v. Yoshinoya America, Inc., 23STCV28516, filed on November 20, 2023. On
April 19, 2024, the Martinez complaint was amended to add in a representative
(PAGA) action for wage and hour violations. Plaintiff Mendoza filed the instant
action for enforcement under the private attorneys general act on January 19,
2024. 
 
According
to Yoshinoya, the amended complaint in the complex courtroom was the result of
the judicial officer deeming a separately filed PAGA action filed by Martinez,
24STCV02032, related to the class action. The court subsequently ordered the
filing of said first amended complaint combining the claims. While no judicial
notice was provided for this, the court accepts this unchallenged
representation.
 
Yoshinoya
follows with the position that the order relating the cases and amended
complaint renders the merged PAGA action dated back to the older class action filing
date under the doctrine of relation back, thereby rendering the instant
complaint later filed and subject to abatement. Plaintiffs
only represent the amended complaint was filed after the filing of the instant
action, but otherwise offers no legally citable substantive challenge to the
relation back point. (The court will not consider unpublished opinions,
especially district court opinions interpreting federal civil procedure
statutes. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a); Rittiman
v. Public Utilities Com. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1018, 1043 (footnote
18).) The court finds support for Defendant’s
position regarding relation back for purposes of establishing an earlier filing
date. (Hutcheson v. Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 932, 940.)
By extension, the determination of the previously filed complaint renders the
subject action later filed notwithstanding the amended pleading date succeeding
the subject action.
 
Given
the separate complaints, the court considers abatement. Yoshinoya contends both actions allege PAGA claims and penalties
against the exact same defendant. Plaintiff acknowledges the Martinez amended
complaint adding in the representative wage and hour claims, but maintains the Mendoza
action only seeks to enforce PAGA penalty provisions, thereby constituting a
separate cause of action. Contrary to the representation of Plaintiff, the
Martinez action also seeks “Statutory Penalties under PAGA.” [Req. Jud. Not.,
Ex. C: Mendoza v. Yoshinoya America, Inc., Prayer ¶ 2.] Mendoza also seeks
“Statutory Penalties under PAGA.” [Comp., Prayer ¶ 2.]
 
Plaintiff seeks to justify the admitted “split”
(notwithstanding the double pled claims in both actions) on the basis that the
PAGA claim constitutes a “small portion” of any recovery...likely to be
allocated” as part of the greater class action complaint, thereby somehow
supporting a separate PAGA penalty only claim. This position lacks any legal
support. 
 
Plaintiff
however also presents published authority from a district court whereby the
court found no bar to concurrent PAGA litigation brought by separate private
parties. (Tan v. GrubHub, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2016) 171 F.Supp.3d 998, 1012-1013
“Tan.”) The court relied on the omission of any language barring such a
practice within Labor Code section 2699 subdivision (h). The District Court was
careful to note that a settlement of one claim prior to completion of the
adjudication of the separate action may preclude relief on the parallel action.
(Ibid. accord Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969,
985; see Robinson v. Southern Counties Oil Company (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 476, 483.)
 
Defendant
in reply presents new authority distinguishing Tan, and addresses the existing
California on exclusive concurrent jurisdiction, as it relates to PAGA. “The
rule is based upon the public policies of avoiding conflicts that might arise
between courts if they were free to make contradictory decisions or awards
relating to the same controversy and preventing vexatious litigation and
multiplicity of suits.” (Shaw v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 245, 255.) 
 
“The
rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction is similar to the common law plea in
abatement now codified at Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(c). (Citation.) Under the statutory plea in abatement, ‘[t]he pendency
of another earlier action growing out of the same transaction and between the
same parties is a ground for abatement of the second action.’ (Citation.)
A statutory plea in abatement requires that the prior pending action be ‘between
the same parties on the same cause of action.’ (Ciation.)”
[¶] ‘Although the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction is similar in
effect to the statutory plea in abatement, it has been interpreted and applied
more expansively, and therefore may apply where the narrow grounds required for
a statutory plea [in] abatement do not exist. [Citation.] Unlike the statutory
plea [in] abatement, the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction does not
require absolute identity of parties, causes of action or remedies sought in
the initial and subsequent actions. [Citations.] If the court exercising
original jurisdiction has the power to bring before it all the necessary
parties, the fact that the parties in the second action are not identical does
not preclude application of the rule. Moreover, the remedies sought in the
separate actions need not be precisely the same so long as the court exercising
original jurisdiction has the power to litigate all the issues and grant all
the relief to which any of the parties might be entitled under the pleadings.’”
(People ex rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 760, 770.)
 
The
argument under Tan depends on the omission of any reference barring
parallel claims proceeding in separate courts under Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure (perhaps also assuming no double pled statutory penalty claims). (Tan,
supra, 171 F.Supp.3d at pp. 1012-1013.) The subject actions before the Superior
Court name separate individual plaintiffs and potentially different aggrieved
employees per PAGA action. Plaintiff Mendoza representing to only seeking “penalties”
in the instant action without any compensatory damages, still presents concern due
to the split of all necessary and dispensable parties represented in a single
action thereby increasing the possibility of conflicting or contradictory
decisions. (Shaw v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County, supra,
78 Cal.App.5th at p. 255.) 
 
While
the hypothetical possibility allowing a split in recovery (assuming the removal
of the penalty claim in the Martinez action), coupled with separate employees
per action limits a direct finding for abatement due to the lack of identified
aggrieved employees, the court finds the California exclusive concurrent rule precludes
parallel PAGA actions relied upon under the “omission” analysis in the federal
authority. (Shaw v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County, supra,
78 Cal.App.5th at p. 255; People ex rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan,
Inc., supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at p. 770.) The court therefore declines
to follow the federal court precedent, and in its discretion finds the subject
cases violates concurrent exclusive jurisdiction rules. The demurrer is
therefore Sustained with Leave to Amend. The court also stays the case. 
 
Defendant
may file a notice of related cases regarding the subject action with the
complex court.


Trial
set for April 14, 2025, is vacated. The court will set an OSC re: Status of the
Stay/Martinez PAGA Action/Scope of Leave to Amend.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 