 Case Number:  22STCV31715    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DAWN STEVENS, Plaintiff(s), vs.  RICHARD LEOPARDI, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV31715  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. May 16, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Dawn Stevens (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented litigant, filed this action against defendant Richard Leopardi (“Defendant”) for civil harassment, assault, battery, trespass, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Previously, the Court denied without prejudice Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions to dismiss Plaintiff’s action for failing to serve verified discovery responses in compliance with the Court’s November 16, 2023 Order, and instead granted lesser sanctions. (Min. Order, March 26, 2024.)  On this renewed motion or terminating sanctions, Defendant avers that, to date, no discovery responses, verifications, or sanctions payments have been received by Defendant. Thus, Defendant moves on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the Court’s November 16, 2023 and March 26, 2024 Orders. Any opposition was due on or before May 3, 2024; none has been filed.   II. MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS Legal Standard Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(d).)   A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.)    Discussion The Court ordered Plaintiff to serve responses, without objections, to Defendant’s set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents, within 10 days of the hearing. (Min. Order, Nov. 16, 2023.) Further, the Court imposed sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $490 for failure to comply with the November 16, 2023 Order. (Min. Order, March 26, 2024.) Defendant argues a terminating sanction is warranted, because Plaintiff’s continuous refusal to provide discovery is a willful violation.  Notably, Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s prior motion for terminating sanctions, nor did she appear at the hearing. Similarly, to date, Plaintiff has not opposed the instant motion or filed any other brief in relation. When the Court last deferred imposing terminating sanctions, and instead imposed only monetary sanctions, it essentially provided Plaintiff additional time to comply with her discovery obligations. However, to date, no responses have been served, nor has there been any communication by Plaintiff thereafter. A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's orders.  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.)  Given that there is no evidence Plaintiff has served responses to the outstanding discovery in compliance with this Court’s November 16, 2023 Order, and Plaintiff’s lack of opposition, it appears that Plaintiff has abandoned her case. Therefore, the Court concludes Plaintiff knew of her discovery obligations, knew of the court’s order compelling her compliance, and has failed to demonstrate that her non-compliance was not willful. Given Plaintiff’s continuous failure to comply with her discovery obligations, failure to participate in litigation, and apparent disinterest in prosecuting this action, the Court finds lesser sanctions would not curb the abuse.     Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is therefore GRANTED. Plaintiff’s action against Defendant is hereby dismissed.     III. CONCLUSION Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  