 Case Number:  21STCV44536    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JADE CARRASCO,¿ET AL.  Plaintiff(s),¿¿  vs.¿  ¿POSITIVE INVESTMENTS, INC., ET AL.,¿ Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV44536  [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, (2) DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 16, 2024  I. MOTIONS TO COMPEL Background Plaintiff Jade Carrasco, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Jesse Ronald Carrasco, (“Plaintiff Carrasco”) propounded special interrogatories, set one, and demand for production of documents, set one, on defendant Mark Radgowski (“Defendant Mark”) on December 27, 2023. (Quiroga Decl. ¶ 7.) To date, Defendant Mark has not served responses. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Plaintiff Carrasco therefore seeks an order compelling Defendant Mark to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  Defendant Mark is in pro per. As of May 3, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  Legal Standard For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)  Discussion & Conclusion  The Court notes the proof of service attached to the motion to compel responses to demand for production of documents provides that Defendant Mark was served with a motion to compel special interrogatories. Because there is no evidence that Defendant Mark was properly served with the motion to compel responses to the document demands, this motion and all accompanying requests are DENIED without prejudice. There is no proof of service issue with the motion to compel special interrogatories, and the Court therefore considers only this motion on the merits. Because the evidence shows Defendant Mark was properly served with special interrogatories, set one, and failed to timely respond, any objections have been waived. Plaintiff Carrasco’s motion to compel responses to her special interrogatories is GRANTED.  Defendant Mark is ordered to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s Carrasco’s special interrogatories, set one, without objections, within thirty (30) days. (CCP § 2030.290(a),(b).)  II. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)¿Defendant Mark did not file any opposition. However, sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition was filed, pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). Plaintiff Carrasco seeks $1,710 in monetary sanctions.  A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)        Plaintiff Carrasco is awarded $200 for the motion as attorney’s fees for the motion to compel special interrogatories only. Further, Plaintiff Carrasco is awarded one motion filing fees of $60, as costs.   Sanctions are imposed against Defendant Mark. Defendant Mark is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff Carrasco, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $260, within thirty (30) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   