  Case Number:  24TRCV01182    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and Motion to StrikeMoving Parties: Defendant Devon Cook, an Individual, and Devon Cook, trustee of Cook FamilyTrustResponding Party: Plaintiff Jessica CookRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED and the motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 5, 2024, Plaintiff Jessica Cook (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Oral Contract; (2) Breach of Oral Contract to Make a Will; and (3) Quiet Title.On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Devon Osgood Cook, as an individual and trustee of the Cook Family Trust, dated October 25, 2023 (the “Trust”); Juston Cook (“Juston”); all persons known and unknown claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate lien, or interest in the property described in the FAC adverse to Plaintiff’s claim; and DOES 1-20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Oral Contract and (2) Quiet Title.On September 30, 2024, Defendants Devon Cook (“Devon”) and Juston Cook (“Juston”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the FAC and a motion to strike portions of the FAC.On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. Two days later, Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition to the motion to strike. The same day, Plaintiff filed a late opposition to the motion to strike. Defendants filed replies to both oppositions on October 17, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThe subject of this action is a property California (the “Property”) located at 14623 Roxton Avenue Street in Gardena. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff has been the sole owner of the Property since October 13, 2005. (FAC, ¶ 11.) The Property is encumbered by a mortgage with RoundPoint Mortgage Servicing LLC. (FAC, ¶ 12.) As of September 12, 2023, the outstanding principal on the mortgage is $268,704.32. (FAC, ¶ 12.)For years, Plaintiff has owned and rented out the front of the Property and used the rental proceeds to pay the mortgage. (FAC, ¶ 15.) On February 25, 2017, Plaintiff agreed to let Devon rent the middle unit and let Juston rent the back unit. (FAC, ¶¶ 15, 20.)On July 25, 2017, Plaintiff agreed to quitclaim the Property to Defendants on the condition that both continue to pay rent to Plaintiff and to collect rent from other tenants on Plaintiff’s behalf so that Plaintiff could pay the mortgage with the rental proceeds. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Defendants agreed to these conditions, but Plaintiff alleges that Devon made false representations that he would abide by Plaintiff’s conditions to induce her into transferring the Property. (FAC, ¶ 16.)For a while, Devon paid rent and collected rent from other tenants, but he stopped doing so on September 1, 2021. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff continued to pay the mortgage, but Devon did not pay his rent or collect rent from other tenants. (FAC, ¶ 17.)Plaintiff brings the instant action, alleging that Devon breached their oral contract. Plaintiff also seeks to quiet title in her name alone.Plaintiff asserts that her claims are not barred by the statute of frauds or statute of limitations because Devon made fraudulent representations to her. (FAC, ¶ 29.)LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONAs a preliminary matter, the court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion to strike was filed late. However, the court exercises its discretion to consider late papers, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300.Moving Party’s ArgumentDefendants demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that it is barred by the statute of frauds. Defendants demur to the second cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. Further, Defendants seek to strike portions of the FAC related to the fraudulent representations because they are conclusory allegations.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff concedes that the demurrer should be sustained in its entirety. However, she seeks leave to amend to add additional facts and new causes of action. Plaintiff also argues that the motion to strike should not be granted because it will be moot if she is allowed to amend her complaint.Reply ArgumentDefendants contend that leave to amend should not be granted because Plaintiff has not shown that she can successfully state any cause of action. Further, courts may deny leave to amend when there is an unwarranted delay in bringing a new cause of action.Merits of the MotionA. Conflict of InterestIn a “preliminary statement,” defendant asserts that there is a potential conflict between Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendant Juston Cook. A potential conflict of interest is not a properly raised by demurrer. Defendants must file a separate motion if they wish the court to adjudicate any legal issues.B. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike is subject to a similar meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)Defendants’ counsel declares that he met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel on September 23, 2024, but the parties were unable to reach an agreement. The court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.C. First Cause of Action for Breach of Oral ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Servs., Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)1. Statute of FraudsThe first element of a breach of contract claim, as it relates to the contracts for the purchase, sale, or lease of an interest in real property, is delimited by the statute of frauds. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1971; Civ. Code § 1624.) Such contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1971; Civ. Code § 1624.)Plaintiff does not allege that there was a written agreement, conditioned upon Defendants continuing to collect and pay rent, to transfer the Property to Defendants. Without such an allegation, Plaintiff’s first cause of action is barred by the Statute of Frauds.2. Statute of LimitationsCode of Civ. Proc. section 339 states that actions based on oral contract must be brought within two years of the breach occurring or discovery of the breach. Here, Plaintiff states that the breach occurred in September 2021, but she did not bring an action until April 2024. Thus, the court also finds that her claim is barred by the statute of limitations.3. Fraudulent RepresentationsPlaintiff argues that Defendants must be equitably estopped from asserting the above defenses because of false representations made by Devon. However, fraud must be pleaded with particularity. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Plaintiff makes only conclusory allegations that Devon made fraudulent misrepresentations without providing any supporting facts. Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Devon did pay and collect rent for several years, which contradicts her assertion that he intended to fraudulently induce her into transferring the Property.Thus, Defendants are not equitably estopped from asserting either defense. As both the statute of frauds and statute of limitations apply, Plaintiff cannot establish the existence of a contract, and her first cause of action fails.Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.D. Second Cause of Action for Quiet TitleAn action for quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd. (a).) In an action for quiet title, Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description of the property that is the subject of the action,” specifically the location of tangible personal property and the legal description and street address or common designation of real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,” (3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)Plaintiff’s second cause of action is based on the same facts alleged in the first cause of action. (FAC, ¶ 31.) As discussed above, Plaintiff cannot establish the existence of an oral contract to transfer the Property pursuant to certain conditions. Thus, her second cause of action fails as well.Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.E. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Defendants seek to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for relief on the second cause of action, allegations of fraudulent representations, and the statement that Defendants are equitably estopped from asserting the two-year statute of limitations and/or the statute of frauds.As discussed above, Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails. Necessarily, the prayer for relief must fail as well. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to plead fraud with particularity. Thus, Defendants may assert the defense of statute of limitations or statute of frauds.Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to strike in its entirety.F. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Plaintiff concedes that the demurer to the causes of action which were pled in the FAC is well taken. However, she argues in her opposition that she will plead additional facts in her proposed amended complaint that support new causes of action. As a constructive trust is theoretically legally possible even given the facts provided in the FAC, the court will grant leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the first and second causes of action are SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety with leave to amend.An amended complaint must be filed within 20 days.Defendants to give notice of ruling.