 Case Number:  22GDCV00881    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



KRIKOR KASSABIAN, et al., 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   GLENDALE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22GDCV00881
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   16, 2024



 
On November 20, 2024, defendant Frunzik
Sargsyan (“Sargsyan”) filed this motion for an order temporarily staying this
action until the conclusion of the criminal and immigration proceedings brought
against him or, in the alternative, for a protective order restricting or
limiting any inquiry into the facts relating to matters in the criminal and
immigration cases in written discovery or deposition. On December 3, 2024,
co-defendant City of Glendale (“Glendale”) filed a response to Sargsyan’s
motion stating that a stay of the entire action was appropriate. On December 6,
2024, plaintiffs Krikor Kassabian and Christina Chobanian (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) objected to Glendale’s request for a stay of the entire case. Plaintiffs
do not oppose a stay with regard to Sargsyan. 
In deciding whether to stay proceedings
when a civil defendant faces parallel criminal charges, courts engage in a
two-step process.  First, the decision
should be made “‘in light of the particular circumstances and competing
interests involved in the case’ . . . This means the decision maker should
consider ‘the extent to which the defendant’s fifth amendment rights are
implicated.’ [Citation.]” (Keating v.
Office of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324.) Second, the
court should consider: “(1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding
expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the
potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any
particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the
convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use
of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil
litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and
criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885; Keating, supra, 45 F.3d
at p. 325.) “[I]t has been consistently held that when both civil and criminal
proceedings arise out of the same or related transactions, an objecting party
is generally entitled to a stay of discovery in the civil action until
disposition of the criminal matter.” (Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686,
690.)
Here,
Sargsyan argues that a stay is appropriate because he has been charged with two
felonies for violating Vehicle Code section 20001(b)(2) (felony hit and run)
Penal Code section 136.1(b)(1) (dissuading a witness from informing a crime); also,
in another case, Sargsyan has been charged with violating Vehicle Code section
2800.2 for evading a police officer. (Motion, p. 3.) As a result of these
criminal charges, he was detained by the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (“ICE”) and has been detained at ICE facilities. Sargsyan’s counsel,
Maria A. Grover (“Grover”), reports that her client is caught in an
administrative impasse because the criminal proceedings cannot go forward while
he is detained and removal proceedings in immigration court cannot commence
until he has been convicted of a crime. (Grover Decl., ¶ 6.) Nowhere in Grover’s declaration does
she state that the felony charges are related to the case brought by
Plaintiffs. However, given that neither Plaintiffs nor Glendale oppose his
request for a stay, the Court GRANTS the motion and STAYS the case only as to
Sargsyan for six months, or until Sargsyan’s criminal proceedings have
concluded, whichever occurs first. 
The Court also sets a status conference
for May 16, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. for the parties to provide the Court with an
update regarding Sargsyan’s criminal proceedings. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 