 Case Number:  24NNCV00886    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAUL PINCKARD, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LANDI
   PINCKARD PAPAZIAN, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00886
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS LANDI PINCKARD
PAPAZIAN
  AND JARED PAPAZIAN’S MOTION TO STRIKE; DEMURRER
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   16, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
         On April 11,
2024, plaintiffs Paul Pinckard (“Pinckard”) and Theresa Urman (“Urman”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Landi
Pinckard Papazian and Jared Papazian (collectively, “Defendants”). 
          On
June 27, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike and a demurrer. Defendants
move to strike the Complaint on the grounds that the Complaint fails to comply
with California Rules of Court, rule 2.112 and Code of Civil Procedure section
425.10, as well as allegations of “malice with intent”, a request for $25
million in damages (to the extent which they are alleged to be punitive
damages), and an allegation on page 3, lines 19-20, which Defendants contend is
irrelevant. Defendants also demur to all causes of action alleged in the Complaint
(with the exception of Invasion of Privacy) on the grounds that they do not
plead facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the causes of action as
alleged are uncertain, ambiguous, unintelligible, and impermissibly vague. 
          Plaintiffs
did not oppose the motion to strike or the demurrer.
          On
November 26, 2024, the Court continued the hearing to December 16, 2024, after
Urman indicated to the Court that Pinckard was incarcerated. The Court also
ordered Defendants to serve the demurrer and motion again via e-mail. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to comply
with California Rules of Court, rule 2.112, which provides as follows:
Each separately stated cause of action, count, or defense
must specifically state:
(1) Its number (e.g., ‘first cause of
action’);
(2) Its nature (e.g., ‘for fraud’);
(3) The party asserting it if more than one party is
represented on the pleading (e.g., ‘by plaintiff Jones’); and
(4) The party or parties to whom it is directed (e.g.,
‘against defendant Smith’).
 
(California Rules of Court, rule 2.112.) Plaintiffs’
Complaint also fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
425.10(a)(1), which requires a complaint to contain “[a] statement of the facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” Here,
Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not separately identify each cause of action, the
party asserting it, or the party/parties to whom it is directed. The Complaint
is also not drafted in ordinary and concise language. These failures substantially
impair the Court and Defendants’ ability to understand the allegations within
the Complaint or even ascertain the particular causes of action which are being
asserted. Accordingly, the Complaint is stricken in its entirety. 
As the Complaint is stricken, the
demurrer is MOOT. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED
with 20 days’ leave to amend. Defendants may obtain dismissal of the action by
ex parte application if Plaintiffs fail to file an amended complaint within 20
days. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 