  Case Number:  22AHCV00922    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM HENRY MEURER, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
QINPEI
   LI,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00922
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO EXTEND DISCOVERY CUT-OFF DATE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   16, 2024



 
On October 26, 2022, plaintiff William
Henry Meurer (“Plaintiff”) filed this partition action against defendant Qinpei
Li (“Defendant”). On October 11, 2024, the Court continued the non-jury trial
to April 14, 2025, but kept discovery closed. On October 21, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to reopen discovery. Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
November 25, 2024. No reply brief is on file. 
Except as otherwise provided, any party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).) The court shall take into
consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not
limited to: (1) the necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050,
subd. (b).)
Here, Defendant argues that discovery
should be reopened “to excavate the information intentionally hidden by the
alter ego of Plaintiff.” (Motion, p. 7.) Defendant declares that it was
recently discovered that “Plaintiff frauded [sic] the court by producing
illegal evidence to evade paying alimony to Defendant, and also by not
disclosing his income to evade child support with an alter ego business
account.” (Li Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant also accuses Plaintiff of engaging in
harassing conduct which interfered with her attempts to conduct discovery. (Li
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that discovery
should not be reopened because Defendant has made no effort over the past two
years to conduct any discovery. (Opp., p. 1.) Plaintiff also argues that the
discovery sought relates to alimony and child support issues and not the
partition action. (Opp., p. 2.) 
Defendant failed to file a reply brief
and does not address Plaintiff’s claims regarding her lack of diligence or her
improper reasons for reopening discovery. 
Accordingly, the motion to reopen
discovery is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances
at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the
final order or place the motion off calendar.
 