  Case Number:  22TRCV01249    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. P




 
VERSHANTE
  HILL, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01249




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE:  
DEMURRER
  TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
 
 




BEST
  WESTERN INTERNATIONAL; BEST WESTERN PLUS REDONDO BEACH; TOMMY LEE; and DOES
  1-20, inclusive, 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:  December 18, 2024
Department
P, Judge David K. Reinert          
 
Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Parties: Defendant Otoro Group, LLC d/b/a
Best Western Redondo Beach Inn and 
  
Tommy Lee  
Responding Party: Plaintiff Vershante Hill
 
RULING
 
The court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The court SUSTAINS the
demurrer in its entirety and GRANTS Defendants’ motion to strike in its
entirety.
 
Leave to
amend within 20 days of the ruling only as to IIED, Fraudulent Concealment and
Punitive Damages. 

 

 
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff Vershante Hill (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Best Western International, Inc. (“Best Western
Int’l”); Best Western Plus Redondo Beach Inn (“Best Western Redondo”); Tommy
Lee (“Lee”); and Does 1-20, inclusive alleging causes of action for (1)
Battery; (2) Negligence; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(“IIED”); (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5) Private Nuisance; and (6) Public
Nuisance.
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to substitute Doe 1 as
Otoro Group, LLC (“Otoro”).
 
On December 28, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation to dismiss Best
Western Int’l from the case. 
 
On January 10, 2024, Defendants Otoro and Lee (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the complaint.
On September 25, 2024, the demurrer was sustained in its entirety with leave to
amend.
 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike on November 13, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on December 5, 2024. Defendants filed a reply on
December 11, 2024.
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
On
November 18, 2020, Plaintiff checked into Otoro d/b/a Best Western Redondo and
was assigned room 106 (the “Room”). (FAC, ¶ 14.) The next day, Plaintiff
discovered that he had multiple insect bites. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff inspected
the Room and discovered a bedbug infestation. (FAC, ¶ 16.)
 
Plaintiff
reported the infestation to hotel management and was transferred to another
room. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff checked out of the hotel on November 21, 2020.
(FAC, ¶ 18.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants had prior knowledge of the infestation because several
guests left reviews warning others of the bedbugs. (FAC, ¶ 28.) However,
Defendants continued to rent out the Room and deliberately chose to conceal the
infestation from Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 29, 32.) 
 
Defendants’
housekeeping staff failed to inspect the rooms and failed to take precautions
against bed bugs. (FAC, ¶ 34.) Such conduct was ratified by Defendants. (FAC, ¶
34.)
 
Consequently,
Plaintiff has suffered physical and emotional injuries. (FAC, ¶ 46.)
 
Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s first, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action
for failure allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action. Defendants also
seek to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damage and attorney’s fees.
 
LEGAL STANDARD           
 
A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the
complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be
sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.¿(Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.
(Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.)¿On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of
America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be
alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.)
 
DISCUSSION             
 
Moving Party’s Argument
 
Plaintiff relies on conclusory statements and cannot support any cause of
action with specific factual allegations. Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages and attorney’s fees must be stricken, as, at best, he states a claim
for negligence, and he has not alleged any basis for awarding attorney’s fees. 
 
Opposing Party’s Argument
 
Plaintiff argues that all causes of action are sufficiently pleaded. The
motion to strike should be denied because Plaintiff has pleaded that Defendants
acted wantonly and in reckless disregard of Plaintiff’s safety.
 
Reply Argument
 
Plaintiff repeats arguments which the court already found unpersuasive in
the first demurrer. Further, Plaintiff still fails to plead a contractual or statutory
basis for recovering attorney’s fees.
 
Merits of the Motion
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and
confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike also requires a meet and
confer process, which is procedurally identical to the meet and confer process
prior to filing a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)¿ 
 
Defense counsel declares that the parties conferred several times but
were unable to reach an informal resolution. Accordingly, the court finds that
the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.
 
B.  First Cause of Action for
Battery
 
“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1)
defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent
to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable
person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
The gravamen of Plaintiff’s battery claim is that Defendants, in failing
to abate a known bedbug infestation, touched or caused Plaintiff to be touched
offensively. In support, Plaintiff cites to a Seventh Circuit case, in which
the Court held that a bed bug attack was a battery. (Mathias v. Accor Econ.
Lodging, Inc. (7th Cir. III. 2003) 347 F.3d 672.) Defendants argue that Mathias
is factually distinguishable, and Plaintiff has failed to allege that
Defendants acted purposefully to harm Plaintiff.
 
The court agrees that Mathias is not instructive. In Mathias,
there was clear evidence that the defendant motel had actual knowledge of the
infestation but directed its staff to tell guests that they were “ticks.” (Mathias,
supra, 347 F.3d at p. 674-675.) The defendant motel actively ignored the
advice of exterminators to treat the infestation and continued to rent infected
rooms out to guests, despite “do not rent until treated” signs. (Id. at
p. 674.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew of the infestations because
of multiple online reviews. However, a vague reference to anonymous guest
reviews, which do not state the dates of their stay nor the room they stayed
in, is not a sufficient factual basis for imputing knowledge of the infestation
to Defendants. Without such knowledge, the court cannot find that Defendants
intentionally placed Plaintiff in an infested room or acted with substantial
certainty that she would be bitten by bedbugs. At best, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants were negligent in their maintenance of the hotel.
 
Without more specific factual allegations of intentional conduct or
willful disregard of a known risk, Plaintiff fails to establish all of the
elements of a battery.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
C.  Third Cause of Action for IIED
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,
1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) 
 
In addition, “it is not enough that the conduct be intentional and
outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff or occur in the
presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Potter v.
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1002, citing Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) 
 
Plaintiff’s IIED claim is based on Defendants’ “deliberate” failure to
eradicate a known bedbug infestation. As discussed above, Plaintiff has not
alleged sufficient facts to show that Defendants actually knew or should have
known about an active infestation. Without such knowledge, the court finds that
Plaintiff fails to adequately plead that Defendant acted deliberately or with
substantial certainty that Plaintiff would be harmed. Further, the court finds
that Plaintiff inadequately pleads that this conduct was directed at him in
particular.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
D.  Fourth Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Concealment
 
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression
of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners
Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 189 Cal.Rptr.3d 31, at 36, citing Graham v. Bank of
America, N.A., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 606, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 218.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claim fails because, as discussed above, there are no
facts showing that the Defendants had prior knowledge of a bedbug infestation.
Thus, any assertion that Defendants or their staff intentionally concealed a
known infestation from Plaintiff is merely conclusory. As Plaintiff fails to
support this claim with factual allegations, the court finds that his
fraudulent concealment cause of action is insufficiently pleaded.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
E.  Fifth Cause of Action for
Private Nuisance
 
To establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must
prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the
invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must
be substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial
actual damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only
be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation
marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff argues that the bedbugs constitute a private nuisance because
they are injurious to health, however, private nuisance is a civil wrong based
on disturbance of rights in land. (Monks v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 263, 302.) The FAC fails to articulate what rights in
land, if any, Plaintiff had in his room at the Hotel. “Guests in a hotel,
boarders in a boarding house, and roomers or lodgers, so called, are generally
mere licensees and not tenants. They have only a personal contract, and acquire
no interest in the realty.” (Sloan v. Court Hotel (1945) 72 Cal.App.2d
308, 314.) Without an interest in the realty, or rights in the land, Plaintiff
cannot state a cause of action for private nuisance.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
F.  Sixth Cause of Action for
Public Nuisance
 
In determining whether a particular activity constitutes a public
nuisance a plaintiff must show: (1) defendant created or permitted a condition
to exist that was harmful to health, (2) that condition affected a substantial
number of people at the same time, (3) an ordinary person would be reasonably
annoyed or disturbed by the condition, (4) the seriousness of the harm
outweighs the social utility of defendant’s conduct, (5) that plaintiff
suffered harm that was different from the type of harm suffered by the general
public, (6) that defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (CACI 2020.)
 
In support of this cause of action, Plaintiff analogizes bedbugs to
smallpox. Plaintiff quotes the Restatement Second of Torts, which provides that
“the threat of communication of smallpox to a single person may be enough to
constitute a public nuisance because of the possibility of an epidemic.” Similarly,
Defendants created a public nuisance by failing to abate a bedbug infestation,
which is likely to be spread to other residences by infected guests leaving the
hotel.
 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s comparison of a single instance of
bedbug bites to a communicable disease like smallpox is not supported by the
facts provided. Plaintiff fails to allege facts supporting that bedbug
infestations pose a similar health risk as smallpox. Further, Plaintiff fails
to allege facts showing that the bedbug infestation impacted anyone other than
Plaintiff. Here, the mere probability of harm to the greater community is
insufficient to maintain a public nuisance cause of action.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
G.  Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿¿ 
436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437.)¿ 
 
1.  Punitive Damages
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages, as Plaintiff
fails to plead fraudulent, oppressive, or malicious conduct with particularity.
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive
damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled
by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.) A request for punitive damages may be made pursuant to Civ. Code section
3294 which provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
Under the statute, malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others” and oppression is defined as “despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.” (Code Civ. Proc., 3294, subds. (c)(1), (2).) Although
not defined by the statute, despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are
base, vile, or contemptible. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) Also, “[u]nder the statute, malice does not require
actual intent to harm…Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be
sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences…. [Citation.]” (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
1270, 1299.)
 
As discussed above, the allegations in the FAC do not rise to the level
of malicious or fraudulent behavior that justifies punitive damages. Nor does
Plaintiff successfully allege that Defendants acted in conscious disregard of
his rights, as Plaintiff cannot allege that Defendants had prior knowledge of
the infestation.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
2.  Attorney’s Fees
 
Defendants seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees, as
Plaintiff has not alleged that there is a contract between the parties. Nor
does Plaintiff cite to any statute which would permit him to recover attorney’s
fees. Plaintiff does not brief this issue in his opposition.
 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege that he has a
contractual or statutory entitlement to attorney’s fees. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike attorney’s fees is GRANTED.
 
H.  Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349
[court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff requests leave to amend, as he can state more specific facts
regarding the inactions or omissions of Defendants’ employees and Defendants’
ratification of such acts. The court will grant leave to amend only as to the
IIED and fraudulent concealment causes of action and request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff may not amend his other causes of action or his request for
attorney’s fees.
 
CONCLUSION
           Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety
and the motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety. Plaintiff may amend only
the IIED and fraudulent concealment causes of action and punitive damages. 
 
Defendants ordered to give notice of ruling.
 