  Case Number:  23TRCV00710    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 30, 2023¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00710
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rafael
Maldonado v. Uber Technologies, Inc., et al.
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Kanesha La Veta Lawson (erroneously sued and
served as Kenesha La Veta Lawson)
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Rafael Maldonado (No Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2)
 Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3) Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One
(4) Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
(5) Request for Sanctions
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED
                                                (2)
 Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED
(3) Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED
(4) Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted is
GRANTED
(5) Request for Sanctions are denied, without prejudice 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff,
Rafael Maldonado (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Uber
Technologies, Inc, Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Kenesha La Veta Lawson,
Flexdrive Services, LLC, Ari Fleet LT, and DOES 1 through 50. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Entrustment; and
(3) Negligent Hiring Supervision & Retention. 
 
Defendant, Kanesha LaVeta Lawson
(“Defendant Lawson”) propounded the first set of discovery requests on
Plaintiff on August 14, 2023.  The moving
papers state that Defendant Lawson she served courtesy copies via email to
Plaintiff’s counsel on the same date. The deadline to respond was September 18,
2023. Prior to the deadline, Plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension to
provide responses until September 22, 2023. However, Defendant Lawson contends
that Plaintiff failed to abide by the second deadline, but in an effort to
avoid intervention, a third extension was provided to allow Plaintiff to
provide responses by September 29, 2023. Defendant Lawson notes that as of the
date she filed this motion, she has not received any responses from Plaintiff. 
 
As such, Defendant Lawson has
filed these Motions to Compel Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
Request for Production of Documents, and Requests for Admission. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On October 18, 2023, Defendant Lawson filed these motions
to compel responses. To date, no opposition has been filed. On November 21,
2023, Defendant Lawson filed a notice of non-opposition. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motions to
Compel Responses 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
            Further, where there has
been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the
demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief
from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There
is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(b).)    
 
Here, Defendant Lawson notes that Plaintiff has failed to respond to
any of her propounded discovery. Because no responses were provided after
numerous extensions, including an extension not requested by Plaintiff, but
provided by Defendant Lawson, this Court GRANTS each of Defendant Lawson’s
motions to compel and grants the motion to deem requests for admission
admitted. Verified responses to the RFOGS, SROGS, and RFPs, with all objections
having been waived, are due on or before January 5, 2024, 
 
B.     Sanctions

Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
Here, Defendant Lawson has
requested sanctions in the amount of $1,475 per motion, totaling $5,900. Defendant
Lawson’s request for sanctions is based on Defendant Lawson’s counsel, Teresa
M. Mayer’s Declaration. In her declaration, she notes that her office has
incurred a filing fee of $60, that her firm’s billing rate on this matter is
$155 per hour, and that she has spent approximately two hours preparing this
motion. Mayer notes that she anticipated spending one hour reviewing
Plaintiff’s opposition and drafting a reply brief, and one hour attending a
hearing. Plaintiff also requests $795 for a Court reporter. The Court notes
that no opposition was filed and no reply needed to be drafted. The Court also
notes that a $795 court reporter fee is requested on all four motions, but it
is difficult to understand why a single court reporter fee could apply for the
same-day hearing as to all four motions. 

The granting of the deemed admission
is devastating to Plaintiff’s case against Defendant Lawson.  The RFA that are deemed admitted are nearly
tantamount to an admission that Plaintiff has no proof and no evidence as to the
essential elements of Plaintiff’s prima facie case against Lawson, and
more.  Monetary sanctions are thus denied,
without prejudice to being re-asserted if and when Plaintiff seeks relief from the
deemed admissions.
¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 
 