 Case Number:  22STCV06229    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BOYD
  HORAN;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
CITY
  OF ARTESIA, WILLIAM RAWLINGS, TONY LIMA., et al.;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  22STCV06229
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  02/18/22
First
  Amended Complaint Filed: 02/17/23
Second
  Amended Complaint Filed: 05/01/24
Trial
  Date: 06/02/25
 
 



 
Hearing date:              September 4, 2024
Moving Parties: 
        Defendant William Rawlings
Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Boyd
Horan

 
(1)   Defendant William Rawlings’
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
The court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court SUSTAINS William Rawlings’ demurrer to
the third and sixth causes of action of the Second Amended Complaint, with 20 days leave to amend.
The Motion to
Strike is MOOT because the court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend as to the third and sixth causes of action. 
Background
            Plaintiff
Boyd Horan filed this action on February 18, 2022, against defendants City of
Artesia, William Rawlings, Tony Lima, Monica Manalo, Ali Taj, and Does 1
through 10, alleging causes of action for (1) Violation of Cal. Labor Code §1102.5;
(2) Retaliation In Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code §12940, et seq.); and (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. On April 8, 2022, defendants Tony
Lima, Monica Manalo and Ali Taj filed a demurrer to the Complaint which was
rendered moot by the filing of a First Amended Complaint. On February 17, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On April 11, 2024, the 
Court sustained the demurrer to the third
and sixth causes of action with leave to amend. The Court also sustained the
demurrer without leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action. On May 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
 
            On
May 1, 2024, defendants filed a demurrer to the SAC.  The SAC is the operative complaint and alleges
six causes of action for (1) Violation of Cal. Labor Code §1102.5; (2) Retaliation
In Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code §12940, et seq.); (3) Hostile Work
Environment; (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment; (5) Negligent Hiring; and (6) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.  This
dispute arises out of Plaintiff’s alleged wrongful termination. (SAC, ¶¶ 10-16.)

 
            On
July 29, 2024, defendant William Rawlings (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to the
SAC. Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 21, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on
August 27, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of
the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Discussion
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to in person or by
telephone for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.  (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) 
Here, the parties declare that they met and conferred via telephone on July
15, 2024. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel provides evidence
showing that the parties met and conferred by telephone. (Id.; Ex. A and
Ex. B.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. 
 
Judicial Notice 
Under Evidence Code section 452, the court may take judicial notice of
“[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy,” and must take judicial notice of such facts
and propositions if a party so requests and provides sufficient notice to the
adverse party. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (h) & 453.)
However, the court does not “take judicial notice of the truth of factual
matters asserted therein.” (Ramsden v. Western Union (1977) 71
Cal.App.3d 873, 879.) “To go beyond notice of the existence of a document to an
interpretation of its meaning constitutes improper consideration of evidentiary
matters.” (Middlebrook-Anderson Co. v. Southwest Sav. & Loan Assn.
(1971) 18 Cal.App.3d 1023, 1038.)
Here, Defendant requests the court take judicial notice of the following
documents: 
Attached as Exhibit “C” to the Declaration of Warren M. Williams, Plaintiff’s
Claim for Money Damages, dated October 7, 2021. 
Attached as Exhibit “D” to the Declaration of Warren M. Williams, City of
Artesia’s Claim Rejection Notice, dated October 28, 2022.
The court GRANTS the requests.
 
Demurrer
Defendant
William Rawlings argues that Plaintiff should dismiss the individual Rawlings
from this lawsuit because the causes of action are not applicable to Rawlings,
but to the City of Artesia, presuming they have merit. Further, Defendant William
Rawlings demurs to the third and sixth causes of action of the Second Amended Complaint
on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. (CCP §§ 430.10(e).)
 
Third
Cause of Action – Hostile Work Environment
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for hostile work environment because he does not
identify any protected characteristic or harassing conduct. (Dem. p. 8.) In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the fact that he is not a member of a
protected class does not bar his ability to assert the hostile work environment
cause of action. (Opp. p. 3.) Plaintiff further argues that “[a]s long as a
plaintiff perceived harassment based on a protected category that was severe
and pervasive enough to create an abusive environment, a claim for hostile work
environment can stand.” (Opp. p. 3.) In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
concedes that he is not a member of a protected class and was not personally
subjected to harassing comments or conduct because of his association with or
advocacy on behalf of others which results in the failure of the cause of
action. (Reply p. 2.)
The elements of a cause of action for harassment based on hostile work
environment are: “(1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was
subjected to unwelcome racial [or other protected status] harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on race [or other protected status]; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with his work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) [Defendant] is liable for the
harassment. (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)
The SAC alleges “while he was employed by the City, he was subjected to
harassing conduct that was severe or pervasive. That environment was primarily
created by Defendant Rawlings.” (SAC ¶ 49.) The SAC further alleges “Specific
instances of Rawlings systematic and continuous harassment include, but are not
limited to, those acts alleged in Paragraphs 9 through 11 above, and are
incorporated herein.” (FAC ¶ 50.) 
Specifically, the SAC alleges “Rawlings managed the City’s employees
through fear, intimidation, and harassment. Rawlings went out of his way to
systematically target employees based on various protected categories,
including pregnancy, gender, familial status, and medical issues. Rawlings
would yell at threaten to sue, threaten to fire, and generally intimidate
employees based on these protected categories. As the Human Resources Manager,
Horan was the one whom the employees would come to complain about Rawlings.
Horan frequently sat through meetings with employees that were in tears and
inconsolable due to the harassment by Rawlings. When Horan confronted Rawlings
with these complaints on behalf of employees of protected categories, Rawlings
would turn his abuse towards Horan. Rawlings would yell at Horan, threaten
Horan’s job, and would force Horan to engage in conduct that Horan believed to
be immoral or unlawful.” (SAC ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff’s facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for
hostile work environment as they remain conclusory. The Thompson v. City of Monrovia case is instructive. In Thompson v. City of
Monrovia, appellant Thompson was a white police officer who sued the
respondent police department for harassment and hostile work environment
arising from offensive remarks and behavior directed at an African American
colleague. (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 860, 863.) The Court of Appeal reasoned that “a plaintiff like Thompson, who is not within the protected class,
may satisfy the “protected class” requirement “based on [his] association
with or advocacy on behalf of protected employees.” (Id. at
876-877.) The Court of Appeal further reasoned that “if
Thompson produced evidence that he was personally “subjected to unwelcome
racial comments as a result of [his] association with or advocacy for protected
employees,” he would satisfy the second and third requirements (that he was
subjected to unwelcome racial harassment and the harassment was based on race).”
(Id. at 878.) 
Just as in Thompson, here, the alleged facts fail to show that
Plaintiff was “specifically targeted [because he] associated with and advocated
for [a member of a protected class] . . .” [citations omitted.] (Thompson v.
City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 878.) Even though the SAC
alleges, “[a]s the Human Resources Manager, Horan was the one whom the
employees would come to complain about Rawlings . . . When Horan
confronted Rawlings with these complaints on behalf of employees of protected
categories, Rawlings would turn his abuse towards Horan. Rawlings would yell at
Horan, threaten Horan’s job, and would force Horan to engage in conduct that
Horan believed to be immoral or unlawful”, it fails to provide additional facts
as to the conduct that Horan was forced to do or that he was specifically
targeted because of his advocacy. (SAC ¶ 9.) 

 “To establish the fourth element—that the
harassment created a
hostile work environment—Thompson “ ‘must prove that the defendant's conduct
would have interfered with a reasonable employee's work performance and would
have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee …
.’ ” (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc., supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp.
130–131.) Harassment, which may be verbal, physical, or visual and
“communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee” (Roby v. McKesson
Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706), “ ‘cannot be occasional, isolated,
sporadic, or trivial[;] rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of
harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ” (Aguilar,
at p. 131.) Whether the harassment  is sufficiently severe or pervasive to
alter the conditions of the victim's employment and create an abusive
environment “must be assessed from the ‘perspective of a reasonable person
belonging to the racial or ethnic group of the plaintiff.’” [citation omitted.]
(Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 877.)
Here, the SAC further alleges in a conclusory manner, “Rawlings’
harassment of Horan and the other employees was so severe and continuous that
whenever Rawlings was personally at the office the attitude of Horan and the
other employees was noticeably depressed and fearful. Horan and the other
employees were too afraid to speak with one another. They would simply remain
quietly in their offices for fear of drawing the attention of Rawlings. When
Rawlings was absent from the office, Horan could tell that the employees were
far happier, more communicative and collaborative.” (SAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff
further alleges upon information and belief that any reasonable person in
Plaintiff’s circumstance would have considered the work environment to be
hostile, intimidating, offensive, oppressive, or abusive.” (FAC ¶ 51.)
Plaintiff alleged that he suffered harassment by Defendant Rawlings in
retaliation for his advocating for the rights of the employees in those
protected classes. Just as the Court of Appeal in Thompson found that appellant failed to meet any of these elements because “he has not produced evidence that he was
subjected to harassing comments or conduct because of his association with or
advocacy on behalf of African Americans.” (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 860, 878.) Similarly,
here, Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory and fail to produce any facts
showing that he was subjected to the harassing comments or conduct because of
his advocacy. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to include any facts showing how he
advocated for the protected classes.
The court is not yet persuaded that there is no reasonable possibility
that Plaintiff can cure the defect identified above.  Because “[l]eave to
amend is liberally allowed,” the court will grant Plaintiff leave to file a Third
Amended Complaint.  (See, e.g., Kempton v. City of Los Angeles
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1348.) Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend as to the third cause of action.  The
Court grants Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend.
 
Sixth
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress [Mislabeled as
Seventh Cause of Action on SAC]
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiff’s government
claim does not include this cause of action and is therefore barred. (Dem. p. 18.)
Further, the intentional infliction of emotional distress claims against
supervisors arising from wrongful termination in violation of public policy are
barred Worker’s Compensation. (Id.) Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged
extreme and outrageous conduct. (Id.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s arguments are misguided because Workers Compensation does not
bar a claim that arises outside of an employee-employer relationship. (Opp.
p.8.)  Further the government claim is
not required for claims outside of the scope of employment. (Id.)
Additionally, Plaintiff provides examples of the alleged extreme and outrageous
conduct. (Id. at p. 10.)
Government
Claims Act
The Government
Claims Act (the “Act”) governs tort actions against public entities and
establishes sovereign immunity, except as provided by the Act or other
statute.  The Act was “conceived to strictly limit governmental
liability.”  (Williams v. Horvath (1976) 16 Cal.3d 834, 842.) The
intent of the Act "is to confine potential governmental liability to
rigidly delineated circumstances.” (DiCampli-Mintz v. County of Santa
Clara (2012) 55 Cal.4th 983, 991 (internal quotations omitted).) 
Under the Act, public entity immunity is the rule and liability the
exception.  (Gov. Code, § 815.2; Teter v. City of Newport Beach
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 446, 451.)  It is settled law that there is no common
law governmental tort liability in this State, and any tort liability is
dependent wholly on statute. (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 363, 370 (Gong).)
The Gong v.
City of Rosemead case is instructive. In Gong, appellants sought to
impose liability on respondent city for the alleged tortious conduct of its
former mayor. (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363,
366.) The causes of action included intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Id.) The Court of Appeals found that “[b]ecause [appellants]
failed to satisfy the claim presentation requirements of the act with respect
to their causes of action for  . . .
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and because the City is immune
from their promissory estoppel claim, the trial court properly sustained the
City's demurrer.” (Id. at 367.)
Here, Plaintiff
alleges intentional infliction of emotional distress. The intentional tort
claim is defective because it is common law rather than statutory cause of
action.  (See Gong, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 370 (there
is no common law governmental tort liability in this State; any such tort
liability is wholly dependent on statute).) Moreover, the cause of action is
also defective because Plaintiff fails to plead compliance with the Tort Claims
Act’s claims presentation requirements. (See, e.g., State of California
v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1242 (timely claim presentation
is required prior to filing lawsuit; complaints that do not allege timely claim
presentation are subject to general demurrer).) Nevertheless, Plaintiff’s
argument that the Government Claims Act does not apply because “[he] has
provided specific allegations that Rawlings’ conduct was in violation of FEHA
and beyond the scope of employment” is insufficient to show that the alleged
conduct was outside the scope of employment. (Opp. p. 8.)
The City’s
demurrer will be sustained, with leave to amend.  In any amended pleading,
Plaintiff will need to allege the cause of action arising from statute,
rather than common law and plead facts showing the conduct was outside the
scope of employment. The Court grants Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant
William Rawlings moves to strike punitive damages, attorney’s fees and claims
of restitution from the Second Amended Complaint.
Motions to
strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See
Code Civ Proc., §§ 435-437.)  A motion to strike can be made to strike
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading or to strike any
pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule or order of the court.  (§ 436.)
The motion to
strike is MOOT given that the Court granted leave to amend as to the third and
sixth causes of action.
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
September 4, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court