  Case Number:  21STCV27304    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BLANCA CALDERON;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
REGENTS OF THE
  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA;
 
                              Defendant.
 


Case No.: 
  21STCV27304
DEPARTMENT 45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  07/26/21
Trial Date:  12/02/24
 
 



 
Hearing
Date:             September 4, 2024
Moving
Party:             Regents of the
University of California
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Blanca Calderon
 
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
The court has considered the
moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary judgment with respect to the
Complaint.
The court DENIES Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication.
 
Background
Plaintiff Blanca Calderon (“Plaintiff”) worked for Regents of the University of
California (“UCLA” or “Defendant”) from 2007 through May 14, 2019 as a
housekeeper at its UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center. Plaintiff claims that she
suffered various work-related injuries during her course of work, including
injuries to her back, shoulders, middle fingers, elbow hand and wrist.
Plaintiff claims that starting in 2010, her injuries and work restrictions often
became permanent, and after medical leave, she informed Defendant that her
restrictions were permanent. In doing so, Plaintiff requested reasonable
accommodations, but Plaintiff claims that Defendant, each time, refused to
provide any reasonable accommodation for Plaintiff’s
injuries, while also failing to even initiate any kind of interactive process
with Plaintiff to determine if there were any accommodations it could
provide, whether in her role as a housekeep or any other, so long as such work
was within her restrictions and would not injure her further. Plaintiff claims
that as a result of Defendant’s refusal
to accommodate Plaintiff, Plaintiff returned to work, all the while
being forced to lift weight outside of and in violation of her physical
work restrictions, causing further physical injury and harm.
The complaint further alleges that on
or about May 13, 2019, Plaintiff’s supervisor Fletes, called Plaintiff into his
office. While in his office, Fletes informed Plaintiff that she was
being terminated because, as Fletes explained, Defendant could no longer
accommodate Plaintiff’s restrictions given that they were now “permanent.”
Plaintiff alleges that was a pretext for terminating her based on her
disability as her injuries were permanent for the last ten years.
The complaint contains the following
causes of action: 1) disability discrimination, 2) failure to reasonably
accommodate, 3) failure to provide medical leave, 4) failure to engage in the
interactive process, 5) failure to maintain a workplace free from
discrimination and retaliation, 6) retaliation, and 7) wrongful termination. 
 
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the
seventh cause of action for wrongful termination.
On November 17, 2023, Defendant filed this
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 19, 2024, and Defendant replied on August
27, 2024.
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
            As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must be denied where the
moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence
of any opposition (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985)
164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475) or where the opposition is weak (Salesguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384,
387).
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment with respect to the Complaint, which alleges the causes
of action set forth above.
 
Alternatively,
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as follows:
 
First Cause of Action – Disability
Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940(a)
 
Issue
No. 1: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the first cause of action because Plaintiff cannot establish discriminatory
motive.
 
Issue
No. 2: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the first cause of action because Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action.
 
Second Cause of Action – Failure to
Reasonably Accommodate in Violation of Government Code section 12940(m)
 
Issue
No. 3: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the second cause of action because Plaintiff was accommodated. 
 
Third Cause of Action – Failure to
Provide Medical Leave in Violation of Government Code section 12945.2
 
Issue
No. 4: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the third cause of action because Defendant provided Plaintiff with all
requested medical leave without interference or retaliation.
            
Fourth Cause of Action – Failure to
Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of Government Code section
12940(n)
 
Issue
No. 5: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the fourth cause of action because Defendant accommodated Plaintiff.
 
Issue
No. 6: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the fourth cause of action because Defendant engaged in a timely, good faith
interactive process with Plaintiff to determine reasonable accommodations.
 
Issue
No. 7: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the fourth cause of action because Plaintiff was the cause of any breakdown in
the interactive process.
 
Fifth Cause of Action – Failure to Maintain
a Workplace Free from Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of Government
Code section 12940(k)
 
Issue
No. 8: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the fifth cause of action because Plaintiff’s underlying claim fails.
 
Sixth Cause of Action – Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA
 
Issue
No. 9: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the sixth cause of action because Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action.
 
Issue
No. 10: Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication as to
the sixth cause of action because Plaintiff cannot establish a causal link
between a protected activity and subsequent adverse employment action.
 
Damages
 
Issue
No. 11: Plaintiff is not entitled to damages against
Defendant because Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the workers’ compensation
exclusivity rule.
 
I.                   
First
Cause of Action – Disability Discrimination (Issue Nos. 1-2) and Sixth Cause of
Action – Retaliation (Issue Nos. 9-10)
 
Defendant
moves for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for disability discrimination
and sixth cause of action for retaliation, on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot
establish a discriminatory or retaliatory motive; and (2) Plaintiff did not
suffer an adverse employment action.
 
California’s Fair Employment
and Housing Act (FEHA) prohibits employers from discriminating against
employees on the basis of disability. (Govt. Code, § 12940.) In order to
establish a prima facie case of FEHA disability discrimination, the
employee-plaintiff must prove: (1) she suffered from a disability; (2) with or
without reasonable accommodation, she could perform the essential functions of
the employment position she held or desired; and (3) that she was subjected to
an adverse employment action because of her disability. (Jensen v. Wells
Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal. App. 4th 245, 254.) 
 
To establish retaliation
under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected
activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment
action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1028, 1042.) A retaliation claim can be brought by an employee who has
complained of conduct reasonably believed to be discriminatory. (Id. at
1043; see also Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191,
209-10.) “[A]lthough an adverse employment action must materially affect the
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment to be actionable, the
determination of whether a particular action or course of conduct rises to the
level of actionable conduct should take into account the unique circumstances
of the affected employee as well as the workplace context of the claim.” (Yanowitz,
supra, 36 Cal.4th at 1052.)  
 
At summary
judgment, California follows the burden shifting analysis of McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 to determine whether there are
triable issues of fact for resolution by a jury. First, the employer must carry
the burden of showing the employee’s action has no merit. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) It may do so by presenting evidence either: (1) negating
an essential element of the employee’s claim; or (2) showing some legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against the employee. (Caldwell
v. Paramount Unified School Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 202.) If
defendant meets its burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff to produce
substantial evidence that the employer’s showing was untrue or pretextual by
raising at least an inference of discrimination or retaliation.  (Hersant
v. California Department of Social Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
997, 1004-1005.) 
 
Adverse
Employment Action 
 
Here, Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot
establish that Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action to establish her
causes of action for discrimination and retaliation on the basis of a
disability.  
 
An adverse
employment action is generally an action that materially affects the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment. (See Featherstone v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1161.) 
 
Defendant presents evidence that
Plaintiff was never disciplined, never issued a performance warning, never
received a decrease in pay or salary, and never demoted. (UMF 17-20.) On the
contrary, Plaintiff was only ever given positive performance reviews, even when
she did not perform tasks associated with regular duty. (UMF 21.) Moreover, Defendant
argues, in January 2021, Plaintiff resigned from her employment with Defendant
and applied for retirement. (UMF 75; Exh. E: Plaintiff’s Depo., Vol.
1, 44:2-6, Ex. 1; Exh. N: Plaintiff’s Depo., Vol. 3, Exs.
25-29.) 
 
Defendant also presents evidence that Plaintiff
was placed on a finite leave of absence in May 2019 given permanent
restrictions regarding the use of her hands, during which time Defendant sought
to find a new assignment for Plaintiff. (UMF 45; Exh. G: Sanchez
Depo., 108:7-25; 110:11-20; 170:2-10.) Plaintiff remained
in contact with Defendant’s disability management team for over a year after
she was placed on medical leave to inquire about her return to work. (UMF 46.) Defendant argues that a leave of
absence is a known form of accommodation. It does not constitute an adverse
action. See, e.g., Ravel v. Hewlett-Packard Enter., Inc., 228 F.Supp.3d
1086, 1094 (E.D. Cal. 2017) [“a reasonable accommodation cannot be a materially
adverse employment action”]. 
 
In the absence of
a controlling California court decision, a court may consider the reasoning
reflected in federal cases that apply analogous statutes or rules, such as
cases interpreting similar federal employment and antidiscrimination laws. (Pollock
v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 918, 936.)
However, in Ravel, the plaintiff’s disability leave was considered
reasonable under the ADA. A "reasonable accommodation must be effective, in enabling the
employee to perform the duties of [her] position." (Ravel,
supra, 228 F. Supp. 3d at 1093.) Here, there is no
evidence presented that the leave was reasonable. As such, the court cannot
determine as a matter of law whether the leave may constitute an adverse
action.
Nevertheless,
the court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for disability discrimination under FEHA has no merit by
showing that at least one element of that cause of action (i.e., adverse
employment action) cannot be established.  The evidence suggests that
Plaintiff resigned in January 2021 when she applied for her retirement.
In opposition, to meet her burden, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant failed to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff, and forced
her on unnecessary, permanent leave. Plaintiff
asserts these actions resulted in her constructive discharge. Following
Defendant’s May 13, 2019 decision to place Plaintiff on a medical leave of
absence, it was clear to Plaintiff she no longer had a job given Defendant’s
confirmation that she would no longer be allowed to work her custodian
position. (PAMF 25-27.) At no time since May 2019 has Defendant ever offered
her any work Plaintiff can perform. (PAMF 32.) Indeed, in 2020, Defendant informed
Plaintiff that, because of her restrictions, she would never be allowed to
return to her old job as a custodian. (PAMF 33.)
Based on the evidence
presented in her opposition, Plaintiff has established that there is a triable
issue of material fact regarding whether Plaintiff was subjected to adverse
employment actions. “Constructive
discharge, like actual discharge, is a materially adverse employment action.” (St.
Myers v. Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 315.) Furthermore,
“[w]hether conditions were so intolerable as to justify a reasonable employee’s
decision to resign is normally a question of fact.” (Vasquez v. Franklin
Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 827.) 
Next,
as to issue No. 1, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has no evidence of any
conduct from which one could infer “that it is more likely than not that
[any]... actions were based on a prohibited discriminatory criterion.” (Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355.) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff only proffers speculation to support her allegations; she has no
evidence that would even suggest a discriminatory motive. Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
suspicions of improper motives based entirely on conjecture and speculation are
insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact to withstand summary judgment. 
However,
Defendant has failed to submit or cite to any evidence for this assertion. As a
result, Defendant has not carried its initial burden on summary judgment. In
any event, the proximity of seeking accommodations and being put on leave
presents triable issues of fact. 
II. Second
Cause of Action – Failure to Reasonably Accommodate in Violation of Government
Code section 12940(m) (Issue No. 3)
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication as to the second cause of action for failure to
reasonably accommodate, on the ground that it accommodated Plaintiff.
            
“The essential elements of a
failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by
the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can
perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed
to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo
Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256.)” (Wilson v. County of Orange
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1192.) A reasonable accommodation as “a
modification or adjustment to the workplace that enables the employee to
perform the essential functions of the job held or desired.” (Nadaf-Rahrov
v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 974.)  
 
“Under FEHA, ‘… an employer
who knows of the disability of an employee has an affirmative duty to make
known to the employee other suitable job opportunities with the employer and to
determine whether the employee is interested in, and qualified for, those
positions, if the employer can do so without undue hardship or if the employer
offers similar assistance or benefit to other disabled or nondisabled employees
or has a policy of offering such assistance or benefit to any other employees.’
” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 225, quoting Prilliman
v. United Air Lines (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935, 950-51.)
  
Here, Defendant presents evidence that it accommodated Plaintiff with various
leaves of absence, including those alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint, during her
employment. (UMF 23-24.) When Plaintiff was released to work with restrictions,
Defendant scheduled her for modified duty shifts, which meant she only
performed light duty tasks based on the needs of the day. (UMF 26-27, 30,
33-34.) Defendant also moved Plaintiff’s shift from the first shift in the
morning to the second shift, when the work is less demanding due to a lower
volume of work. (UMF 28.) Plaintiff admits that the only people who know what
she was doing during her shift are her former supervisors, and Plaintiff’s
supervisors testified that they assigned Plaintiff to modified duty and had no
problem accommodating her. (UMF 29.) Plaintiff admits that
her supervisors told her several times that she could call the office if she
ever needed help with any tasks. (UMF 57.) Plaintiff admits that the supervisor
would respond by telling her that they would send someone over as soon as
possible. (UMF 68.) 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff claims that even
though her supervisor told her that someone would handle what she could not do,
Plaintiff was still under a time deadline to complete full duty tasks. (UMF 59.)
But Plaintiff has no evidence that she was personally required to
complete the cleaning of a patient room within 30 minutes. (UMF 60.) Plaintiff
has no evidence that anyone with supervisory authority over her expected or
instructed Plaintiff to complete any task within a certain amount of time or
that was outside her restrictions. (UMF 83.) In fact, Defendant states, Plaintiff
admitted that Defendant never reprimanded her for taking longer than 30 minutes
to clean a room. (UMF 62.) Thus, Defendant argues, to the extent Plaintiff
chose to do anything outside her restrictions, Plaintiff did so voluntarily and
on her own accord. (UMF 67.)
The Court finds
that Defendant has met its burden of showing that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for failure to provide reasonable accommodation under FEHA has no merit
by showing that at least one element of that cause of action (i.e., defendant
failed to accommodate Plaintiff’s accommodation) cannot be
established.   Therefore, the burden shifts to the
Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant
failed to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff by consistently forcing her to perform
work in violation of her known physical work restrictions. (PAMF 9-24.) For
example: Plaintiff had to clean
rooms and areas by herself, which forced her to perform work in violation of
her restrictions (PAMF 9);
whenever
Plaintiff asked for help, no one would come to help her; the supervisor would
just say there was no one available to help her (PAMF 12); from at least 2015
through 2019, for a portion of each of her shifts, Defendant often had
Plaintiff disinfect patient rooms using a UV light disinfecting machine called
a Xenex machine, which weighed approximately 140 pounds. (PAMF 14.) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant failed to reasonably accommodate
Plaintiff by failing to continue to provide Plaintiff with the same
duties she performed for nearly a decade.
Indeed, per Defendant’s own admissions, it
suffered no undue hardship in providing her these jobs and could have provided
such jobs to her for the indefinite future. (PAMF 29.) 
 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show there
are triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant provided reasonable
accommodations in that Plaintiff would work in shifts alone and when she would
ask for help, no one was available. Further, Defendant put Plaintiff on leave
and did not offer her another job. A lengthy delay in in
providing an accommodation qualifies as a refusal to provide the accommodation.
(Auburn Woods I Homeowners Assn. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1578, 1599.) “When the reasons for a delay
in offering a reasonable accommodation are subject to dispute, the matter is
left for the trier of fact to resolve.” (Id.) 
 
Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.
 
III. Third Cause of Action – Failure
to Provide Medical Leave in Violation of Government Code section 12945.2 (Issue
No. 4)
Defendant
argues is entitled to summary adjudication as to the third cause of action
because Defendant provided Plaintiff with all requested medical leave without
interference or retaliation.
“The CFRA is contained within the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.),
which is intended to give employees an opportunity to leave work for certain
medical reasons without jeopardizing job security.” (Rogers v.¿City. of Los
Angeles¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 480, 487.) Government Code section 12945.2 entitles
eligible employees to take up to 12 unpaid workweeks in a 12-month period for
family and medical leave to care for children, parents, or spouses, or to
recover from their own serious health condition. 
A CFRA interference claim consists of the following
elements: (1) the employee’s entitlement to leave rights; and (2) Defendant’s
interference with or denial of those rights. (Soria v. Univision Radio Los
Angeles, Inc., 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 601 (2016).)
The
elements of a cause of action for retaliation in violation of CFRA are: (1) the
defendant was an employer covered by CFRA; (2) the plaintiff was an employee
eligible to take CFRA leave; (3) the plaintiff exercised her right to take
leave for a qualifying CFRA purpose; and (4) the plaintiff suffered an adverse
employment action. (Faust v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 864, 885.)
Defendant presents evidence that Plaintiff admits
that Defendant permitted her to take all medically authorized leave recommended
by her doctors and that she was provided medical leave on multiple occasions. (UMF
24.) Plaintiff cannot identify any instance where she was denied a prescribed
medical leave. (UMF 24.) After every leave of absence, Plaintiff was allowed to
return to her previous position and in fact did return with no change in pay or
title. (UMF 19, 25.) Plaintiff admits she never received a negative performance
review, she was never disciplined, she was never demoted, and she was never
subjected to a pay cut. (UMF 17-20.) She received positive performance reviews,
even when she did not perform tasks associated with regular duty. (UMF 21.)
Finally, Plaintiff voluntarily resigned her employment and retired. (UMF 75-80.)

            However, as noted above, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of
material fact as to whether she suffered adverse employment action after she
took leave; as such, this would also raise a triable issue of material fact as
to whether Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff for exercising her CFRA
rights.
 
            Thus,
Defendant is not entitled to summary adjudication as to this cause of action.
 
IV. Fourth Cause of Action – Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of Government Code section
12940(n) (Issue Nos. 5-7)
 
Defendant
also moves for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for failure
to engage in the interactive process, arguing that it engaged in good faith and
Plaintiff was the cause of any breakdown in the process.
 
It is unlawful for an
employer to “fail to engage in a timely, good faith interactive process” with a
disabled employee to determine effective reasonable accommodations. (Gov. Code,
§ 12940(n).) 
 
             “[T]he employer cannot prevail on summary
judgment on a claim of failure to reasonably accommodate unless it establishes
through undisputed facts that “1) reasonable accommodation was offered and
refused, 2) there simply was no vacant position within the employer’s
organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which disabled
employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation, or (3) the
employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable accommodation, but
the informal interactive process broke down because the employee failed to
engage in discussions in good faith. [Citation.]” (King v. United Parcel
Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 442.) 
Defendant argues it engaged with Plaintiff in the
interactive process in several ways: it granted all leaves of absence she or
her physicians requested, it placed Plaintiff on modified or light duty
according to restrictions recommended by her doctors, and it instructed Plaintiff
to only perform those tasks that she could do and to call for help for anything
she felt she could not do or that was unsafe (irrespective of whether it was
within her restrictions). (UMF 23-38, 30-45, 57.) Defendant’s disability management
team remained in consistent contact with Plaintiff regarding her restrictions
over the years. (UMF 35, 46, 87.) 
Furthermore, in May 2019, Plaintiff was placed on a
medical leave of absence given new permanent restrictions to use of her hands,
and Defendant initiated the reassignment process. (UMF 45.) Defendant asked
Plaintiff for an updated resume to assist Defendant in those efforts. (UMF 47,
89.) Defendant required Plaintiff’s updated resume as part of the interactive
process to determine what positions Plaintiff was minimally qualified to
perform. (UMF 10.) However, Plaintiff never submitted her resume despite multiple
requests to do so. (UMF 51.) Plaintiff admits that she never prepared a resume.
(UMF 88.) 
The court finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show there are no triable issues of fact as to
whether it engaged in the interactive process. Defendant argues that by failing
to provide her resume, Plaintiff caused the breakdown in the interactive
process. However, triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether there was a breakdown in the communication and who
initiated it. The interactive process is a “continuing duty and the
fact that the employer took some steps to identify a reasonable accommodation
does not absolve the employer of liability for failure to engage in the
interactive process if it is responsible for a later breakdown in the process.” (Zamora
v. Sec. Indus. Specialists, Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 41.) As noted above under King,
in order to find Defendant is entitled to summary judgment, Defendant must show
it did everything in its power to find a
reasonable accommodation, but the informal interactive process broke down
because the Plaintiff failed to engage in discussions in good faith. Defendant
did not show that it did everything in its power to find Plaintiff a reasonable
accommodation before putting her on leave. Instead, it merely states that
Plaintiff failed to engage in the interactive process because she did not
submit a resume. Nevertheless, Defendant has not shown it looked for jobs that
it thought would be suited for Plaintiff. “Suggesting that the disabled employee check available job
postings, as SIS did when it terminated Zamora, does not satisfy the employer's
duty to reassign or transfer a disabled employee to a vacant position, since
the employer is in a better position than the employee to know what jobs are
vacant or may become vacant in the near future to which the employee may be
assigned.” (Spitzer v. The Good Guys, Inc. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1376,
1389-1390
 
Summary
adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.
 
V. Fifth Cause of Action – Failure to
Maintain a Workplace Free from Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of
Government Code section 12940(k) (Issue No. 8)
 
Defendant
argues is entitled to summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of action
because Plaintiff’s underlying claim fails.
 
 “An actionable claim
under section 12940, subdivision (k) is dependent on a claim of actual
discrimination: ‘Employers should not be held liable to employees for failure
to take necessary steps to prevent such conduct, except where the actions took place
and were not prevented.’” (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California
(2019) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1021.)¿¿¿ 
 
            However,
as noted above, there are triable issues of material fact as to the claim for
discrimination. Thus, the underlying claim has not failed.
 
            Summary
adjudication is denied on this basis.
 
VI. Whether Plaintiff is Entitled to
Damages under the Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity Rule (Issue No. 11)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to damages against Defendant because
Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule.
 
The Workers Compensation Act
(“WCA”) governs compensation to employees for injuries incurred in the course
and scope of their employment. (See Cal. Const., art. XIV, § 4; Cal. Labor
Code, § 3201; Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Compensation Insurance
Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 810.) Compensation under the WCA is an
employee’s exclusive remedy against an employer for injuries sustained out of
and in the course of employment. (See Cal. Labor Code, §§ 3600(a), 3602(a).)
Whether exclusivity bars a cause of action against an employer depends on
whether the alleged injury falls within the scope of the exclusive remedy
provisions. (See Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at
811.) The exclusive remedy provisions apply only in cases of industrial
personal injury or death. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 16.)
The exclusive remedy provisions do not apply where the dual capacity doctrine
applies. (See id.) The dual capacity doctrine applies where the injury
stems from an employer-employee relationship that is distinct and invokes a
different set of obligations than the employer’s usual duties to its employee.
(See Id.; Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection District (1987) 43
Cal.3d 148, 161-62.) Causes of action predicated upon an injury that is
collateral to or derivative of an injury compensable by the exclusive remedies
of the WCA may be subject to the exclusivity bar. (Id.) “While common
law tort claims are generally preempted [citation], claims for separate
injuries under distinct statutory schemes are not.” (Veguez v. Governing
Board of Long Beach Unified School District (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 406,
418.)¿¿ 
 
“Even where an injury is
otherwise compensable under the workers’ compensation system, a cause of action
seeking damages based on the injury may nevertheless be allowable where the
employer’s conduct falls outside the compensation bargain: ‘if the alleged
injury falls within the scope of the exclusive remedy provisions, then courts
consider whether the alleged acts or motives that establish the elements of the
cause of action fall outside the risks encompassed within the compensation
bargain.’”¿ (Light v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 75, 96 (Light).)¿ Thus, “unlawful discrimination and
retaliation in violation of FEHA falls outside the compensation bargain and
therefore claims of intentional infliction of emotional distress based on such
discrimination and retaliation are not subject to workers’ compensation
exclusivity.”¿ (Id. at p. 101.)¿  
 
Disability discrimination is not preempted by workers’
compensation law.¿ (City of Moorpark v. Sup Ct. (1998) 18 Cal. 4th 1143,
1154; Meninga v Raley’s Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 79, 91; Fretland
v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1484-1485).¿ 
 
In City of Moorpark, the plaintiff sued, “alleging
causes of action for discrimination in violation of the FEHA, wrongful termination
in violation of public policy (common law wrongful discharge), breach of
contract, and intentional and/or negligent infliction of emotional distress.” (City
of Moorpark, 18 Cal.4th at 1149.) The defendants demurred, arguing in part
that, because the plaintiff’s disability was work related, “section 132a
provided her exclusive remedy.” (Id.) The trial court disagreed and
overruled the demurrers to the FEHA and common law wrongful discharge causes of
action. The defendants petitioned the appellate court for a writ of mandate,
which the court denied. The Supreme Court thereafter affirmed the judgment. 
 
In its analysis, City of Moorpark explained that “the
existence of a workers’ compensation remedy does not by itself establish that
the remedy is exclusive. Rather, the scope of workers’ compensation exclusivity
depends on the terms of the exclusive remedy provisions.” (Id., at
1154.) As a result, City of Moorpark concluded that “section 132a does
not provide an exclusive remedy and does not preclude an employee from pursuing
FEHA and common law wrongful discharge remedies.” (Id., at
1158.)   
 
In Meninga, the plaintiff “unquestionably received
workers' compensation benefits due solely to emotional injury resulting from
the discriminatory treatment she alleges,” but later asserted FEHA claims
against the defendant.¿ (Meninga, supra, 216 Cal. App. 3d 79.)¿ The
defendant argued that the plaintiff’s FEHA claims are barred because “workers’
compensation provides the exclusive remedy.”¿ (Id. at 89.)¿ The Meninga
court acknowledged that “at first glance “defendants' argument has some appeal
given the exclusive remedy language of¿Labor Code sections 3601, subdivision
(a), and 3602, subdivision. (Id.) However, the court rejected that
argument, reasoning “[t]his approach would not only render the FEHA cause of
action for employment discrimination a non sequitur where disability resulted;
it would also make a hollow promise out of the public policy, stated in FEHA,
of eliminating employment discrimination.”¿(Id.) 
  
In Fretland, the plaintiff filed causes of action
following an alleged wrongful termination because of medical problems with his
lower back, the plaintiff was re-hired with accommodations. (Fretland, supra,
69 Cal.App.4th at 1482.) The plaintiff raised a FEHA violation claim based on
discrimination based upon disability, and defendants argued that plaintiff’s
recovery was solely and exclusively limited to workers’ compensation. (Id.
at 1484.) Citing City of Moorpark, the Court of Appeal held that work-related
injury discrimination is not a normal risk of the compensation bargain and
found that the trial court erred in finding that plaintiff’s FEHA claim was
barred by the exclusive remedy provisions of the workers’ compensation laws. (Id.
at 1484, 1492.) 
 
In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges FEHA claims based on
Defendant’s alleged discriminatory practices – i.e., discrimination,
retaliation, failure to accommodate, based on discrimination of her disability.
Therefore, the crux of her claims revolve around Plaintiff’s alleged
discriminatory employment practices – not the recovery of tort claims for any
injury to herself while at the workplace. As the Moorpark and Meninga
courts have explained, given the public policy reasons behind the adoption
of FEHA – i.e., the protection of civil rights and elimination of
discriminatory practices, the remedies of FEHA are meant to supplement the
workers’ compensation scheme. Since a “workers’ compensation claim cannot
address her employer’s liability for employment discrimination,” the
Plaintiff’s pending claim of worker’s compensation benefits does not bar her
FEHA claims.    
            Summary
adjudication is denied on this basis.
Lastly, the court
notes that in the reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s evidence is inadmissible
and that Plaintiff mischaracterizes the evidence. But Defendant has not
objected to any of Plaintiff’s evidence. It is not the court’s task to rummage
through the evidence in order to determine which piece of evidence is
inadmissible and on what basis. Further, the court has reviewed Plaintiff’s
evidence it has relied on for this ruling and has determined that it supports
Plaintiff’s arguments. Any evidence which does not support Plaintiff’s
arguments was not relied upon by the court. 
 
Similarly, the Court will
not consider Defendant’s improper reply separate statement.  (See e.g. Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (“The deficiencies
carried over to the reply papers, which included a 297–page reply separate
statement. There is no provision in the statute for this.”); San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 313
(“While the code provides for reply papers, it makes no allowance for
submitting additional evidence or filing a supplemental separate statement. (§
437c, subd. (b).) This is consistent with the requirement supporting papers and
the separate statement be served with the original motion. (§ 437c, subd.
(a).).”); Moore v. William Jessup University (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 427,
432 n.3. (“Generally, a party moving for summary judgment may not rely on new
evidence filed with its reply paper.”).)  
 
In
sum, the motion for summary judgment or in the alternative, summary
adjudication is denied.
It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 4, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superior Court
 