  Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  13, 2025




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTION


Discharge
  Stakeholder




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  and Cross-Complainant Hudson Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case stems from a dispute over the remodel of Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) surgical
center.  
 
Plaintiff filed the original complaint on August 10, 2022, against
Defendants Michael Keyes dba Global Ocean and Land Construction (“Keyes”) and
Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”), alleging twelve causes of action for (1)
breach of written contract; (2) unjust enrichment; (3) intentional
misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) unfair business
practices; (6) negligence; (7) declaratory relief; (8) disgorgement of money
paid to unlicensed contractor; (9) recovery on contractors bond; (10)
conversion; and (11) violation of Penal Code section 496.
 
On October 25, 2022, Defendant Hudson cross-complained for declaratory
relief.  
 
On March 12, 2024, Keyes filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff
Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., Inc. and against Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., an
individual (together, “Vallecillos”) alleging ten causes of action for (1)
fraudulent inducement; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) breach of oral
contract; (4) conversion; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6)
reasonable value; (7) agreed price; (8) book account; (9) declaratory relief;
and (10) unfair business practices.  
 
On November 1, 2024, the Court granted Hudson’s unopposed motion to
deduct its $2,500 in attorneys’ fees from the $7,500 bond and deposit the
remaining $5,000 with the Clerk of the Court. 
Upon Hudson’s deposit of the remainder of the bond with the Clerk of the
Court, Hudson now applies to be discharged and dismissed from the action.
 
Hudson’s application is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 386.5 provides:
 
Where the only relief sought against one of
the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be
wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere
stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that
conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the
action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 386.6 provides:
 
A party to an action who follows the procedure
set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his motion, petition,
complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his costs and
reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge of
such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make
such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or
more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 386, subdivision (f) provides:
 
After any such complaint or cross-complaint in
interpleader has been filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order
restraining all parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting
any other proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and
obligations as between the parties to the interpleader until further order of
the court.
 
            In support of the application,
Hudson provides the Declaration of Clark H. Cameron, which provides:
 
2. On March 10, 2019, HUDSON issued Bond No.
30032721 in favor of MICHAEL KEYES dba GLOBAL OCEAN AND LAND CONSTRUCTION as
Bond Principal ("GLOBAL OCEAN" or "Principal'"), The bond
was issued pursuant to the Business and Professions Code (Section 7000, et
seq). The maximum liability for all non-homeowner claims is $7,500 as provided
by the provisions of Business &, Professions Code Section 7071. 6(b).
 
3. On November 11, 2024, this Court ordered that HUDSON
deposit the remainder of the bond with the Clerk of the Court (after deduction
lor attorneys fees and costs and permitted HUDSON to seek discharge and
dismissal upon compliance by way of Ex Parte application. 
 
4. On November 18, 2024 HUDSON deposited the
amount of $ 5,000.00 with the Clerk of the Court.
 
5. HUDSON has fulfilled all obligations required
by the Bond and is entitled to discharge and dismissal pursuant to CCP § 386.5.
 
(Cameron
Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
            Therefore, the Court’s November 1
Order found that Hudson is a mere stakeholder, as holder of the bond, with no
interest in any amount thereof, and the Cameron declaration demonstrates that
Hudson has now deposited the balance of the bond with the Clerk of the Court.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Hudson’s unopposed application in its
entirety.  Hudson is discharged as
stakeholder and is dismissed from this action.
 
Further, no party to this action may initiate another action against
Hudson with respect to the parties’ rights and obligations to each other until
further order of the Court.
 
Hudson shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice
with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court