 Case Number:  24SMCV04211    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       January 13,
2025
CASE NUMBER        24SMCV004211
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside Entry of Default
MOVING PARTIES   Defendants
Equinox Holdings, Inc.; Equinox Fitness Beverly Hills, Inc.; and Equinox
Fitness Santa Monica, Inc.
OPPOSING PARTIES            Plaintiffs
Francesca Borchardt; Gabriela Borchardt; and      Veronica
Borchardt
 
MOTION
 
This case arises from allegations that Defendants Equinox Holdings,
Inc.; Equinox Fitness Beverly Hills, Inc.; and Equinox Fitness Santa Monica,
Inc. (“Defendants”) discriminated against Plaintiffs Francesca Borchardt;
Gabriela Borchardt; and Veronica Borchardt (“Plaintiffs”) because of their
disabilities.
 
On August 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the initial complaint against
Defendants.  Then, on October 9, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The operative FAC alleges six causes of
action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (3) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; (4)
violation of Cal. Civ. Code, § 51.5; (5) violation of the California Disabled
Persons Act; and (6) violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act.
 
Default was entered against Defendants on November 18, 2024. Defendants
now move to set aside the default. 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Defendants reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court overrules Plaintiffs’
objection to the Declaration of Randy Hy filed in support of Defendants’ motion.
 
NOTICE
OF MOTION
 
            As a threshold matter, Plaintiffs
oppose the motion on the grounds that Defendants did not properly serve
Plaintiffs, because Defendants served the motion electronically on Plaintiffs,
who are proceeding in pro per, without a consent to electronic service.
 
            The Court agrees with Plaintiffs
that electronic service in such a scenario is improper.  However, given that Plaintiffs actually
received notice of the motion and timely filed a fulsome opposition on the
merits, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not been prejudiced by the defect
in service, and the interests of justice and judicial economy will not be best
served by continuing the hearing to require additional service on Plaintiffs.
 
            Therefore, the Court exercises its
discretion to consider the merits of the motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
                         
I.         
DISCRETIONARY AND MANDATORY RELIEF
 
“Proceeding to judgment in the absence of a party is an extraordinary
and disfavored practice in Anglo–American jurisprudence:  The policy of the law is to have every
litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party,
who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  (Au-Yang v. Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th
958, 963 [cleaned up].)  
 
Code of Civil procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary
provision, which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies
as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25
(hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473
is a remedial statute to be “applied liberally” in favor of relief if the
opposing party will not suffer prejudice. 
Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any
doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief from default.  Unless inexcusable
neglect is clear, the policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.”  (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24
[cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
A.   
DISCRETIONARY
RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
B.   
MANDATORY
RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Defendants’ registered agent for
service, CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service, was personally served on October
16, 2024, and default was entered against each Defendant on November 18, 2024.
 
            Although Defendants’ counsel knew
that its registered agent would often take longer than 30 days to provide
notice to Defendants of the service, counsel failed to diligently monitor the
filings, and did not have actual notice of the service of summons or default in
this action until December 5, 2024.  (Hy
Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs have
provided the Declaration of Francesca Borchardt, which Plaintiffs assert
demonstrates that Mr. Hy did have actual notice of the service of
summons by virtue of October 7, 2024 email correspondence.  Specifically, the Borchardt declaration indicates:
 
3. On August 30, 2024, I was a Plaintiff who filed an initial
Complaint against Defendants in the Los Angeles Superior Court. 
 
4. On September 5, 2024, Defendants registered agents for service,
CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service, were served via first-class mail, in
accordance with CCP section 415.30. 
 
5. On September 13, 2024, I received the following email from an
individual named Lee Sherman (“Mr. Sherman”): “Good morning: My name is Lee
Sherman, and I represent Equinox. I would like to reach out by telephone and
introduce myself and discuss a preliminary matter with you. Your Complaint does
not list a telephone number, so is there a number and a convenient time today
or Monday to discuss this matter? Please let me know. Thank you, Lee” 
 
6. Shortly thereafter, I responded to Mr. Sherman, providing him with
Plaintiffs’ availability for his requested phone call. A true and correct copy
of this email thread is attached hereto as “Exhibit A”. Ultimately, this phone
call occurred that same day at 4 pm. 
 
7. On the phone call, Mr. Sherman further confirmed receipt of the
Complaint. Mr. Sherman referenced specific details of the Complaint, such as
the Membership Agreements, and expressed his opinion on particular causes of
action. 
 
8. On September 19, 2024, Lennis Vasquez, Mr. Sherman’s assistant,
emailed me a PDF file titled “2024-09-19 Follow up Letter to Plaintiffs”. This
file was a letter from Mr. Sherman, in which he confirmed the September 13th
call, and expressed Defendants’ positions on certain details of the Complaint. 
 
9. Defendants had not returned the Notice and Acknowledgment forms, so
I replied to the September 19th email as follows: “Dear Lee, The complaint and
summons were served on Defendants' agents via Certified Mail on September 5th,
2024. However, Defendants' agents have failed to return the signed Notice of
Acknowledge of Receipt forms to the server. I have attached the forms to this
email. Before we continue to communicate, please sign the forms and return to
the server's email, juliettejolie29@gmail.com, as soon as possible. Thank you,
Francesca Borchardt” A true and correct copy of this email is attached hereto
as “Exhibit B”. 
 
10. I had not received a response to my previous email so on October
7, 2024, I sent another email to Mr. Sherman, and once again, requested
Defendants to return the completed Notice and Acknowledgement forms, as
required by CCP section 415.30. 
 
11. That same day, Mr. Sherman responded, completely evading my
request. In his response, Mr. Sherman CC’ed an individual named Randy Hy.
Shortly thereafter, I replied to Mr. Sherman, in addition to the CC’ed
recipients, as follows: “We are going into the fourth week of you not
fulfilling my simple request of returning the completed Notice of
Acknowledgment of Receipt forms to the server. Obviously, there is no question
as to whether Defendants have been served. You initiated communication to
Plaintiffs and have confirmed receipt of the Complaint multiple times. What is
the problem with completing a standard step in the legal process? This is
baffling.” 
 
12. Mr. Sherman did not respond to this email. A true and correct copy
of the October 7, 2024 email thread is attached hereto as “Exhibit C.”
 
13. On October 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative complaint, the
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) with the court. 
 
14. On October 10, 2024, I emailed Mr. Sherman the following: “Lee,
Since Defendants have refused to return the signed Notice and Acknowledgment of
Receipt forms, service will be effectuated through other means. Defendants are
responsible for any expenses incurred and we will be seeking a remedy from the
Court for reimbursement. Additionally, an Amended Complaint has been filed with
the Court and will be served on Defendants. As a courtesy, I've attached it in
this email. - Francesca Borchardt” In my email, I also CC’ed the individual
named Randy Hy (“Mr. Hy”) because Mr. Sherman had added him in his October 7,
2024 email without explaining who he was, so I presumed he was his paralegal. A
true and correct copy of my October 10, 2024 email is attached hereto as
“Exhibit D”. I never received a response to my email. 
 
15. Because of the refusal to fulfill their obligation of returning
the Notice and Acknowledgment forms, Defendants’ registered agents were
personally served on October 16, 2024 with the following documents: (1) Initial
Complaint; (2) Summons; (3) Civil Case Cover Sheet; (4) Civil Case Cover Sheet
Addendum and Statement of Location; (5) Alternate Dispute Resolution Packet;
(6) Notice of Case Assignment; and (7) the FAC. 
 
16. On October 17, 2024, Proofs of Personal Service were filed and
accepted by this Court for each Defendant. True and correct copies of the
Proofs of Personal Service are attached hereto as “Exhibit E”. 
 
17. Defendants failed to timely file a responsive pleading to the FAC.
As such, on November 18, 2024, my fellow Plaintiffs and I requested an Entry of
Default, which was subsequently granted. A true and correct copy of the Entry
of Default is attached hereto as “Exhibit F”.
 
Service of a summons by mail of a notice of acknowledgment and receipt
“is deemed complete on the date a written acknowledgment of receipt of summons
is executed, if such acknowledgment thereafter is returned to the sender.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (c).)  
 
Here, on September 5, 2024, Plaintiffs attempted to serve the original
summons and complaint by mail via a notice of acknowledgment and receipt, which
Defendants never executed and returned. 
Thus, there was no valid service by mail of a notice of acknowledgment
and receipt.
 
As such, Plaintiffs subsequently served Defendants with the summons
and amended complaint by personal service on October 16, 2024.  That is the only valid and effective service.
 
Although the parties were in communication from September 13 through
October 10 regarding the notice of acknowledgment and receipt, none of those
conversations could establish Hy’s knowledge of the personal service that was not
effectuated until October 16.
 
Therefore, Defendants have provided an attorney declaration of fault,
demonstrating that Defendants’ counsel had no actual knowledge that proper
service had been effectuated until December 5, and Plaintiffs have not rebutted
that showing.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
grants Defendant’s motion to set aside the entries of default and orders the
entries of default against Defendants set aside.  Because the Court sets aside the entries of
default, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for default judgment as moot.
 
            Further, the Court orders Defendants
to respond to the FAC on or before January 31, 2025.        
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
 
DATED: January 13, 2025                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 