  Case Number:  23TRCV01805    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 November 18, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01805  CASE NAME:                        Martin  Garcia v. Jax Chandler Miranda, et al.     ATTORNEY NAME:             Desiree S. Bassir, Esq., counsel of  record for Plaintiff, Martin Garcia    TRIAL DATE:                        April  14, 2025  MOTION:                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.     I.                     Background     On  June 7, 2023, Plaintiff, Martin Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against  Defendants, Jax Chandler Miranda, Perfect Color Reconditioning, Inc., Tesla  Motors, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint alleges causes of action  for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Entrustment; and (3) Negligent Hiring,  Supervision & Retention.     On  October 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney, Desiree S. Bassir, Esq. (“Bassir”)  filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff.    Trial is currently set for April 14, 2025.    II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure section 284  states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or  after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both  client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of  either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code  Civ. Proc. § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it  would cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's  discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell  v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)    Here, Plaintiff’s attorney, Bassir, moves the court  to relieve her as attorney of record for Plaintiff. Bassir properly filed a Notice of  Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in  accordance with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. Bassir’s declaration  indicates that the Plaintiff was served by mail at the client’s last known  address with copies of the motion papers served with the declaration. Bassir  also attests that Plaintiff’s last known address has been confirmed within the  past thirty (30) days via the telephone conversation with the Plaintiff.  While Bassir has not filed the proofs of  service on her client, nor are they attached to the moving papers, paragraph 3a2  of the Judicial Council form Declaration of Counsel may serve as a proof of  service since it attests to service of the motion papers on the client’s last  known address.    In the declaration, Bassir  states that the reason for her motion is that: “[t]he client has not yet  voluntarily consented to counsel’s request to be relieved.” Later on in the  declaration, Bassir contends,  in paragraph 7, that “[t]here has been a breakdown of the attorney-client  relationship precluding counsel’s ability to effectively represent the client  in this matter.”    Since Plaintiff’s attorney  has complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved  as counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue  delay in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Desiree S. Bassir, Esq. as attorney of record for Plaintiff, can be accomplished  without undue prejudice to Plaintiff’s interests.    III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, Desiree S.  Bassir, Esq.’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED pending the filing  of proofs of service, then the Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the  order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on  all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of  service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed  with the court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice and to file proof of service of same.   