 Case Number:  21STCV39883    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VICTORIA PLANCARTE, ET AL, Plaintiff(s), vs.  LYFT, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV39883  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. October 26, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs, Victoria Brianna Plancarte and Natalie Priscilla Barr, by and through her guardian ad litem Marielu Barr (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Ayalnesh Tessema, Raquel Rosasarmijo for damages arising from an automobile incident.  At this time, Lyft moves for a Protective Order to quash Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition of Lyft’s employee, Katye Coombs (“Coombs”). Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Lyft filed a reply.   II. Motion for Protective Order Meet and Confer CCP § 2025.420(a) states that “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” In this case, Lyft, through counsel, asserts that they made good faith efforts to resolve this dispute.  (Mot. Villegas Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) The Court finds this is sufficient to satisfy CCP § 2025.420(a).    Legal Standard  CCP § 2025.010 provides, “[a]ny party may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”    Pursuant to CCP § 2025.420(b), “[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: That the deposition not be taken at all.” (CCP § 2025.420.) Furthermore, CCP § 2017.020(a) states “[t]he court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.”   “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with [the discovery statutes], any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action ... if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action....”  (See Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1012-13.)  “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement....’ [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and information unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Id. at 1013.)  “Moreover, even were the questions designed to elicit irrelevant evidence, irrelevance alone is an insufficient ground to justify preventing a witness from answering a question posed at a deposition.”  (Id. at 1014.)    III. Discussion  Here, Lyft asserts that Coombs signed the discovery verifications on behalf of Lyft, but that she has no personal knowledge relevant to this lawsuit. Furthermore, Lyft argues Coombs is not in possession of the documents requested in the deposition subpoena, and that Lyft already produced numerous responsive documents to Plaintiffs' discovery requests. Lyft contends good cause exists for a protective order, because Coombs’ deposition would be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, and that Plaintiffs already have the documents demanded in Coombs’ deposition notice by way of Lyft’s responses to Plaintiffs’ written discovery.  Plaintiffs, in opposition, aver that Coombs, as the authorized representative of Lyft, signed verifications to Lyft’s responses to Plaintiffs’ request for production of documents that they are “true of my own knowledge except as to those matters which are stated on information belief, and to those matters I believe them to be true.” Even if Coombs knows nothing in the end, Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to her statement under oath to the same effect, and to inquire as to the legal adequacy of Lyft’s discovery responses. However, if Coombs does have information about the process involved in compiling Lyft’s discovery responses and the identity of persons involved, then Plaintiffs argue they are entitled to receive such information. In reply, Lyft argues that Coombs already affirmed in writing that Lyft’s responses are true and correct based on information and belief, and that there is no necessity to ask orally what has already been provided in writing.  Even if Coombs deposition may potentially be duplicative or yield no relevant results, Lyft has not demonstrated good cause for a protective order barring Plaintiffs from deposing Coombs. Further, there is no declaration by Coombs attesting to her knowledge, or lack thereof, regarding this incident and documents related thereto, or her declaration attesting to the burden it would place on her to appear for deposition to show good cause to quash the subpoena or for a protective order.  Additionally, “‘for discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’ and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary to popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, citations omitted.)  Based on the foregoing, Lyft’s motion is DENIED.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    