 Case Number:  22STCV31765    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KATIE STONE and SYLAR ESQUIVEL, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SITANSHU SHYAM SINGH, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV31765 (R/T 22STCV23640)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 26, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs Katie Stone (“Stone”) and Sylar Esquivel (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Sitanshu Shyam Singh (“Singh”), Uber Technologies Inc., Rasier LLC, and PV Holding Corp. for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident.  The complaint alleges causes of action for (1) negligence against all defendants and (2) unfair/unlawful/fraudulent business practices (Cal. Civ. Code §17200) against Uber Technologies Inc., Rasier LLC, and PV Holding Corp. The complaint includes a prayer for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.   Defendant Singh now moves to strike allegations and the prayer for punitive damages.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Defendant Singh filed a reply.      II. Evidentiary Objection Defendant Singh objects to the tentative ruling attached as part of Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 1 in opposition to the motion. The objection is SUSTAINED.    III. Legal Standard Procedural Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) The Court finds Defendant Singh has fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the demurrer.  (Mot. Caponegri Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Motion To Strike The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.) Defendant Singh seeks to strike the following from Plaintiffs’ complaint:  Page 4-5, Paragraph 16 in its entirety;   Page 5, Paragraph 17 in its entirety;  Page 7, Paragraph 25, lines 4-7 “Defendant Singh set forth in social media posts following the collision, posting a picture of the obliterated Avis rental Kia Sportage he had been driving “Pray for me 2nd August, 6th time this year, Twice this way”. Defendant Singh was a known reckless driver and menace to other drivers on the road.”;   Page 8, Paragraph 33, line 13 “Defendant Singh consciously decided”;  Page 8, Paragraph 33, line 15-19 “Defendant Singh’s reckless driving was despicable conduct done with a willful and knowing disregard of the rights and safety of others and was oppressive and malicious within the meaning of California Civil Code § 3294. Defendant Singh’s reckless driving was an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of care, which subjected Plaintiffs to a cruel and unjust hardship, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to an award of punitive damages.”; and  Prayer for Relief, First Cause of Action, Page 13, Paragraph 4 “for punitive damages according to proof”.  Defendant Singh contends Plaintiffs fail to state specific facts to demonstrate Defendant Singh acted with malice, and has not demonstrated he acted with conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  The complaint alleges, in relevant part, that Defendant Singh had a history of at-fault auto collisions, and was involved in at least two prior collisions, wherein he rear-ended another vehicle in November 21, 2019 and collided with a light pole on April 22, 2020. (Compl. ¶16.) Plaintiffs further allege Defendant Singh received at least 6 traffic citations within the 4 years before the collision, including failure to maintain financial responsibility, failure to carry a driver’s license, operation of an unregistered motor vehicle, and running a stop sign. (Id. at ¶17.) Plaintiffs allege the posted speed limit was 25 miles per hour, and that Defendant Singh travelled at 74 mph entering the curve and accelerated, bringing his vehicle up to 81 mph through the curve. (Id. at ¶ 25.) As a result, Defendant Singh crossed over the center line and collided head-on with Plaintiff Stone. (Ibid.) Following the collision, Defendant Singh posted on social media his ruined rental vehicle, stating: “Pray for me 2nd August, 6th time this year, Twice this way”. (Ibid.) As to paragraphs 16 and 17, the Court agrees that these allegations are not pertinent in support of punitive damages against Defendant Singh. Citations for operation of an unregistered vehicle, failure to display authorized license plates, carry a driver’s license, failure to maintain financial responsibility, and running a stop sign do not arise to oppressive or malicious conduct, nor is there an established direct relationship with the underlying incident. The same logic applies for a prior rear-end incident nine months prior to the subject lawsuit, and for a prior incident involving a light pole four months before the incident. However, the remaining allegations are directly related to the incident. Plaintiffs’ specific allegations that Defendant Singh entered a curve at excess speed, including Defendant Singh’s social media post of his own admittance to prior accidents “[t]wice this way” directly following the incident, are relevant in support of the allegations that Defendant Singh consciously disregarded the rights and safety of Plaintiff Stone, such that the conduct may arise to despicable conduct.  Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive damages, and allegations in relation thereto, is granted only in part.   III. Conclusion The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED IN PART, without leave to amend, as to the allegations contained in Paragraphs 16 and 17 only.  As to the remainder, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged enough facts to maintain a prayer for punitive damages. Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    