  Case Number:  19STCV32652    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  URI PEREZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  GEORGE ANDERSON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV32652  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 26, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff Uri Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant George Anderson (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.  At this time, Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for an examination with board-certified neurologist Edwin C. Amos, M.D. (“Dr. Amos”) at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 525E, Santa Monica, CA 90404 on November 14, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. Defendant contends a neurological examination is necessary because Plaintiff claims neurological injuries from the incident, and Plaintiff designated neurologist Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi to serve as his expert witness.    Any opposition was due on or before October 13, 2023; none was filed.    II. Motion to Compel Examination  Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.  Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)   Here, Defendant avers that although neurological injuries were not identified in Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery, Plaintiff testified at his deposition in March 2023 that he suffered neurological injuries, such as loss of consciousness, headaches, short term memory loss, balance problems, and more. Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to defense counsel’s attempt to secure a stipulation for Plaintiff’s neurological examination. Defendant avers Dr. Amos’ first availability after the hearing on the instant motion is on November 14, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. Defendant requests the Court allow the IME to take place on November 14, 2023, even though non-expert discovery cut-off is just one day before on November 13, 2023, or alternatively to continue the trial date and discovery cut-off date. Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the motion or otherwise dispute that Plaintiff has put these conditions at issue, such that his claimed injuries necessitate an examination by a neurologist.  Defendant seeks an order for Plaintiff to submit to a physical neurological examination. CCP § 2032.320(d) requires the moving party to specify the “diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” Defendant indicates that “Dr. Amos needs to interview the Plaintiff, to palpate, to look for muscle spasms, determine range of motion, test reflexes, sensation, motor function, and more.” (Samsonova Decl. ¶ 3.) The scope of the examination is overbroad in that the description remains open ended with the use of the phrase “and more.” However, the examination is specific enough otherwise to permit an order.   Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s neurological examination is GRANTED.  The Court orders Plaintiff to appear for an examination with board-certified neurologist Edwin C. Amos, M.D. at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 525E, Santa Monica, CA 90404 on November 14, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. The scope of the examination will be limited to an “interview of the Plaintiff, to palpitate, to look for muscle spasms, determine range of motion, test reflexes, sensation, and motor function.” Expert discovery is thus continued for one day for the purposes of conducting and completing the neurological examination.   Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   