 Case Number:  20STCV04874    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF  THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA   FOR THE COUNTY OF  LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT       EVAN SOLANKI and WENDY    KADI,  Plaintiff(s),   vs.    KATHY MITSUYE KOZAI, ET AL.,    Defendant(s).    )  )  )  )  )  )  )  )  )  )  )          CASE    NO: 20STCV04874    [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS    Dept. 31  1:30 p.m.   October 26, 2023        I. Background  On February 6,  2020, Plaintiffs Evan Solanki (“Solanki”) and Wendy  Kadi (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against  Defendants Kathy Mitsuye Kozai and Gerald Kozai for damages  arising from an automobile collision.  Defendant Kathy moves  for judgment on the pleadings on behalf of Defendant Gerald Kozai  (“Gerald” or “Decedent”) on the grounds that Gerald is now deceased and  Plaintiffs have not complied with Probate Code  section 9370. The motion is unopposed.     II.  Motion  to Judgment on the Pleadings  A. Request  for Judicial Notice  Defendant Kathy  requests the Court take judicial notice of a heavily  redacted death certificate. The request is denied.    B. Legal  Standard  A defendant may move  for judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”   (C.C.P. §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).)   “A motion for  judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or  at the trial itself. [Citation.]”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980)  110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings  performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only  defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be  judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper  on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman  Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations Omitted).)  The standard  for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as  that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings,  together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party  is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly  (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California  Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)     Defendant Kathy’s motion  for judgment on the pleadings is statutorily restricted to two grounds: either  the Court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in  the complaint, or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action against defendant. (CCP § 438(c)(1)(B).) In ruling on a motion  for judgment on the pleadings, the Court is limited to considering the face of  the complaint or any matter judicially noticeable.    Defendant Kathy  avers Defendant Gerald passed away on February 12, 2021, about a year  after the action was filed. On September 21, 2021, defense counsel informed  Plaintiffs’ counsel that Defendant Gerald had passed away, and requested  either a dismissal or for Plaintiffs to properly re-name him as a deceased  person. Defendant Kathy provides the issue of Gerald’s passing was brought  up at the January 12, 2022 case management conference, wherein the  Court ordered the parties to meet and confer. Plaintiffs did not respond to  defense counsel’s multiple attempts to meet and confer. Defendant Kathy  contends that, because Plaintiffs have not submitted any proof that a claim was  submitted to decedent’s estate, that the estate rejected the claim, or  brought a motion to substitute a personal representative or successor in  interest, that Defendant Gerald is entitled to judgment on the pleadings.   A pending  action does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.  (CCP § 377.21.) Unless the decedent's personal representative is made a  party, a judgment should not be rendered for or against a decedent, nor for or  against the representative. (See¿Sacks v. FSR Brokerage, Inc.¿(1992) 7 Cal.4th  950, 957;¿Sellery v. Cressey¿(1996) 48 Cal.4th 538, 541, fn. 2.)    Defendant Kathy  cites to Probate Code section 9370, which provides that  an action or proceeding pending against the decedent at the time of death  may not be continued against the decedent’s personal representative  unless a claim is first filed, the claim is rejected in whole or in part,  and that within three months after notice of rejection is given, the plaintiff  applies to the court for an order to substitute the personal representative in  the action. However, Defendant Kathy does not cite to any authority  which addresses the situation presented here before the Court, nor is there any  authority to suggest that this issue of failure to substitute the personal  representative of Decedent may be resolved upon a motion for judgment on  the pleadings. Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is  denied.    However, in  light of the contention that Plaintiffs’ counsel was  aware of Defendant Gerald’s passing since September 21, 2021, the  Court will set an OSC Re: substitution of Defendant Gerald’s  personal representative for ________________.   If  Plaintiffs’ counsel fails to appear at the OSC and fails to provide a  reasonable timeline in which the personal representative  or successor-in-interest will be substituted in, Plaintiffs’ counsel  risks the Court dismissing the action as to Defendant Gerald.    Moving party is  ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  ·          Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading  this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement.  ·          If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the  party must send an email to the court at sscdept31@lacourt.org with the Subject  line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include  the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of  the party submitting.  ·          Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative  ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person  for oral argument.  You should assume  that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  ·          If the parties neither submit nor appear  at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the  tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling,  the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.    Dated this 25th day  of October 2023                      Hon. Michelle    C. Kim  Judge of the    Superior Court          