 Case Number:  21SMCV00579    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions is GRANTED. The matters identified in Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Requests for Admission, Set Two, are deemed admitted against Defendant University of Southern California as of the date of entry of this order.Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,110.00, payable by Defendant University of Southern California and defense counsel to Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd. and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd. to give notice. REASONINGPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) served Defendant University of Southern California (“USC”) with its Requests for Admission, Set Two, on June 11, 2024. (Mot., Delinko Decl. ¶ 4.) Responses were due on or before July 15, 2024. (Mot., Delinko Decl. ¶ 6.) To date, no responses have been received. (Ibid.) Accordingly, Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions is GRANTED. The matters identified in Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Requests for Admission, Set Two, are deemed admitted against Defendant University of Southern California as of the date of entry of this order.If a motion to have requests for admission deemed admitted is filed, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Plaintiff requests $2,705.25 in monetary sanctions for the motion. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $1,110.00, representing two hours spent preparing the motion and one hour spent appearing at the hearing on the motion, totaling three hours at the rate of $350 per hour, as well as one filing fee of $60.00. Thus, Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,110.00, payable by Defendant University of Southern California and defense counsel to Plaintiff Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd. and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.