 Case Number:  22SMCV02805    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  N Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED without leave to amend as to Plaintiff Thomasina White’s prayer for attorney fees.Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D. shall file and serve an answer to the Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D. to give notice. REASONING“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Medical Battery“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)In her complaint, Plaintiff Thomasina White (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D. (“Defendant”)’s actions constitute medical battery, and she claims that she had originally given consent to the procedure, but she withdrew the consent after screaming “Stop, Stop, Stop!” in anguish and pain from the surgery. (Second Am. Compl., p. 5.) Plaintiff alleges that she withdrew her consent at the beginning of the surgery, and Defendant then administered over the allowed dosage of lidocaine and continued the surgery. (Second Am. Compl., pp. 5-6.) The Court finds that the trier of fact could conclude that the words “Stop, Stop, Stop!” constituted a withdrawal of consent, and whether it was proper to continue the surgery is a matter to be determined by the trier of fact. Thus, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.Second Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s actions constitute intentional infliction of emotional distress; specifically, she takes issue with Defendant’s conduct of continuing the surgery after she yelled during the surgery and Defendant’s alleged admonishment of Plaintiff’s display of emotions while asking her to “pee on the table.” (Second Am. Compl., p. 7.) The Court finds that the trier of fact could conclude that the alleged conduct of continuing the surgery after the alleged withdrawal of consent, plus admonishment of emotion and asking Plaintiff to “pee on the table,” could constitute conduct with reckless disregard of the probability of causing Plaintiff emotional distress, and that such conduct could be considered extreme and outrageous. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.Motion to StrikeAn award of attorney’s fees is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Defendant argues there is no basis for attorney fees here, and Plaintiff provides no basis for attorney fees in either the Second Amended Complaint or in the opposition to the motion. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees.Plaintiff also includes argument about the propriety of punitive damages, and Defendant responds in her reply. However, the motion was only made as to attorney fees; there is no mention in the motion to strike that Defendant seeks to strike the request for punitive damages, either in the notice of motion or the memorandum of points and authorities. While the motion to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint included such a motion, Defendant has not included that argument as to the Second Amended Complaint. Thus, the Court will not address the merits of a motion that was not made as to this pleading.ConclusionDefendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED without leave to amend as to Plaintiff Thomasina White’s prayer for attorney fees. Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D. shall file and serve an answer to the Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)