On August 19, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative Complaint against Defendants LAUSD and Does 1-60 for (1) childhood sexual abuse, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (3) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, (4) failure to report suspected child abuse, (5) negligent supervision of a minor, and (6) negligence.  Plaintiff alleges that when she was a minor attending middle school she was repeatedly sexually abused and molested by her educator and coach, Doe 1.  Quash SubpoenasPlaintiff now seeks to quash four subpoenas issued to her medical providers, (a) MLK Community Hospital, MLK Community Medical Group, MLK Outpatient, (b) West Central Family Medical Center, (c) Augustus Hawkins, and (d) Exodus Recovery.  Plaintiff argues that “(1) the information sought is privileged and invasive of plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy; (2) the information sought is not directly relevant and essential to the subject matter of this action; (3) the subpoenas are overbroad in scope; and (4) the subpoenas are in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.220 because they seek plaintiff’s sexual history with third persons.”Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)The subpoenas at issue seek: “Any and all documents and MEDICAL RECORDS relating to MENTAL HEALTH, PSYCHIATRIC and PSYCHOLOGIC RECORDS and any and all dates of service pertaining to the examination, care, diagnosis, and treatment of the patient, including but not limited to all office, emergency room, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, raw test data, test items, response/answer sheets, test manuals, user guides, scoring templates, scoring keys, scoring programs and other test protocols, nurses' notes, radiological reports, photographs, therapy and rehabilitation records including all descriptions of exercises prescribed; any and all records regarding prescriptions, including the type of medication, date prescription was filled, doctor who wrote the prescription, instructions on taking the medication, and dosage; and any other information available regarding the prescription(s); sign-in sheets, and documentation which indicate date(s) and time(s) of patients' appointment; regardless of date, color photographs, black and white photographs, intraoperative photographs, any and all surgical photographs, CD and/or DVD files, INCLUDING ALL PATIENT IN-TAKE FORM(S) AND ENTRY-REGISTRATION FORM(S) AND QUESTIONNAIRE FORM(S) AND LETTER(S) OF PROTECTION, AND ANY AND ALL ATTORNEY CORRESPONDENCE ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF.  Any and all mental health records from January 2001 to the present.”  Defendant also seeks billing records.  While Plaintiff does claim severe emotional distress as a result of the subject abuse, the Court finds that the subpoenas are far overbroad in light of Plaintiff’s privacy interests to the extent they seek all of her psychological records from 2001 until the present.  This is particularly true to the extent that Plaintiff responded in discovery that she did not receive counseling for the abuse at issue.Thus, the Motions to Quash are granted.Judgment on the Pleadings Defendant LAUSD moves for judgment on the pleadings for failure to state sufficient facts.  Defendant argues that the Complaint’s claims rely on A.B. 218’s retroactive elimination of the government claims requirement, which is an unconstitutional gift of public funds.“A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against that defendant. A motion for judgment on the pleadings ‘is equivalent to a demurrer . . . .’ Leave to amend ‘is properly denied if the facts and nature of plaintiffs’ claims are clear and under the substantive law, no liability exists.’ ”  (Templo v. State¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 730, 735.)  As is relevant here, A.B. 218 eliminated the language in Gov. Code § 905(m) declaring that the claims exemption only applied to claims arising from conduct occurring after January 1, 2009 and added subsection (p) to Section 905, stating that the changes made to the statute “are retroactive . . . .”  (Gov. Code § 905(p).)  Defendant concedes that the legislature can amend the statute of limitations as it wishes, but it argues that the government claims requirement is a substantive element of Plaintiff’s claims and “the Legislature cannot pass a law attempting to impose liability on a public entity for a past occurrence where there is no enforceable claim. As outlined below, it is beyond debate that, before the Legislature passed AB 218, Plaintiff did not have an enforceable claim against the District.”“The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or to authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any county, city and county, city, township or other political corporation or subdivision of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in aid of or to any person, association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of any individual, association, municipal or other corporation whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift or authorize the making of any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or other corporation whatever . . . .”  (Cal. Const. Art. XVI, § 6.)The Court is aware of a number of trial court decisions on this issue.  Some courts have found A.B. 218 unconstitutional, and others have rejected Defendant’s arguments.  There is at least one appeal pending. Respectfully, the Court considers the claim requirement to be akin to a statute of limitations, such that there is no public gift issue.  Indeed,  it’s been said that “[T]he Legislature has the power to expressly revive time-barred civil common law causes of action. This holding is consistent with the niche in our civil law occupied by statutes of limitations. The principle is ... well established that [s]tatutorily imposed limitations on actions are technical defenses which should be strictly construed to avoid the forfeiture of a plaintiff's rights.... [Citation.] [T]here is a strong public policy that litigation be disposed of on the merits wherever possible.”  [ ] [¶] The present case, of course, involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim presentation requirement, not a statute of limitations. But we are aware of no reason the Legislature should be any less able to revive claims in this context, as it expressly did in Assembly Bill 218 . . . .” (Coats v. New Haven Unified Sch. Dist. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 428 (internal quotes and citations omitted).)Moreover, it has been consistently held that expenditures of public funds or property that involve a benefit to private persons are not gifts within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition if those funds are expended for a public purpose (California Emp. etc. Com. v. Payne (1947) 31 Cal.2d 210, 216; County of San Bernardino v. Way (1941) 18 Cal.2d 647, 653; County of Alameda v. Janssen (1940) 16 Cal.2d 276, 281; County of Riverside v. Whitlock (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 863, 877; Winkelman v. City of Tiburon (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 834, 844-846).  As stated in City of Oakland v. Garrison (1924) 194 Cal.298, 302: “[W]here the question arises as to whether or not a proposed application of public funds is to be deemed a gift within the meaning of that term as used in the Constitution, the primary and fundamental subject of inquiry is as to whether the money is to be used for a public or a private purpose. If it is for a public purpose within the jurisdiction of the appropriating board or body, it is not, generally speaking, to be regarded as a gift.” (Emphasis added.)  It is likewise settled that if a public purpose is served by the expenditure of public funds, the constitutional prohibition is not violated even though there may be incidental benefits to private persons (Board of Supervisors v. Dolan (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 237, 243; see also People v. City of Long Beach (1959) 51 Cal.2d 875; County of San Diego v. Hammond (1936) 6 Cal.2d 709; City of Oakland v. Williams (1929) 206 Cal. 315, 274 P. 328).  More importantly, under an unbroken line of cases, the determination of what constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature, and its discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as that determination has a reasonable basis (County of Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 746; County of Alameda, supra, 16 Cal.2d 276, 281; Dockweiler, supra, 14 Cal.2d at 449-450; Community Television of So. Cal. v. County of Los Angeles (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 990, 997; Dolan, supra, 45 Cal.App.3d 237, 243.)As Judge Stephen Kaus eloquently put it, there is public purpose here because “A.B. 218 was passed to expose and hold perpetrators of childhood sexual assault responsible for their actions, prevent public entities from covering up such abuse and thereby prevent future assaults by raising the costs for engaging in or concealing sexual abuse of children. As these goals will benefit the public as a whole by making the public safer, restoring the public's confidence in public entities, and resting assured that public entities, like private entities will be held liable for their acts that constitute sexual abuse of children, this act serves a public purpose.”  (Jane Doe 7075 v. New Haven School Dist. (Cal.Super. Oct. 02, 2023) 2023 WL 6935551, at *4.)For all these reasons, the Court does not find A.B. 218 to be unconstitutional.  Therefore, the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is denied.  The Requests for Judicial Notice are granted. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 