  Case Number:  22STCV10586    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to
Bifurcate

Henghame
Abaghi vs. State Farm General Insurance Company; 22STCV10586
Moving
Party: Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company
Opposing
Party: Plaintiff Henghame Abaghi

­­­­­­­­BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Henghame Abaghi
(Plaintiff) filed her complaint on March 28, 2022. This action arises out of Defendant
State Farm’s (Defendant) denial of Plaintiff’s claim for a water loss. Plaintiff
is alleging causes of action for breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing
and breach of contractual duty to pay a covered claim against Defendant. As
part of her claim for relief, Plaintiff is requesting punitive damages against
State Farm. Defendant is requesting that the Court bifurcate the liability
phase of the trial from the punitive damages part of the trial so that Defendant
must first be found to have acted with malice, fraud, or oppression before
Defendant must disclose its financial condition.
            No opposition has been filed.
LEGAL STANDARD
                        Defendants
request bifurcation of the liability phase of the trial from the punitive damages
phase of the trial under Civil Code §
3295.
“(d) The court shall, on application of
any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits
or financial condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for
plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section 3294.”
In this case, bifurcating the liability phase of the trial (including a
determination of liability for punitive damages) from the punitive damages financial
evidence phase of the trial is mandated. The Court agrees that the liability
phase should be bifurcated from the punitive damages evidence phase. If the
trier of fact finds that Defendant is not liable or is liable but did not act
with malice, oppression, or fraud, then it would not be necessary for the trier
of fact to hear financial evidence for purposes of Plaintiff’s punitive damages
claim.
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate the liability claims from the punitive
damages claim is granted.
ORDER
1.      Defendant’s
Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED. The liability claims will be the first phase,
and punitive damages financial phase will be the second phase.