  Case Number:  22STCV38689    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  76         
Plaintiff alleges that he was sexually
abused as a minor by Defendant Doe 1, who was a teacher in Plaintiff’s class. 
            Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the First
Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the First Amended Complaint
is DENIED.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Judgment On The Pleadings
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendant requests that the Court take
judicial notice of the following:
1. Exhibit A: Minute Order issued on November 29, 2023 with the Superior Court’s
ruling denying the Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings which challenged
constitutionality of Assembly Bill 218 in the matter of Roe #2, a Public Elementary
School District v. The Superior Court of Santa Barbara County, Case number 22CV05157.

 
2. Exhibit B: Petition for Writ filed on January 25, 2024 by defendant in
Roe #2, a Public Elementary School District v. The Superior Court of Santa Barbara
County, Case Number B334707.
 
3. Exhibit C: Second District Court of Appeal March 27, 2024 request for informal
responses to questions involving “public purpose”: “Did the trial court conflate
the “public policy” reasons motivating the legislative enactment of AB 218 with
the constitutional requirement that the appropriation of public funds serve a “public
purpose”?” 
 
4. Exhibit D: Second District Court of Appeal docket in Roe #2, a Public Elementary
School District v. The Superior Court of Santa Barbara County, Case Number B334707
as of August 5, 2024.
 
Requests Nos. 1 – 4 are DENIED as they involve a different case and not published
opinions. The Court need only take judicial notice of relevant materials. (Mangini v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063, overruled in part on other grounds noted in In re Tobacco Cases
II (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1257,
1276.) The Court may deny a request for judicial notice of material unnecessary
to its decision. (Rivera v. First DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th
709, 713.) 
 
Defendant submitted a second request for judicial notice
on October 1, 2024 as to the following: 
 
1. Exhibit A: Copy of California Supreme Court Docket
number S286798 in West Contra Costa Unified School District v. Contra Costa County
Superior Court 103 Cal. App.5th 1243 (2024), regarding Petition for Review filed
on September 9, 2024. 
 
2. Exhibit B: Conformed copy of Petition for Review filed
on September 9, 2024, by Petitioner West Contra Costa Unified School District from
the decision in West Contra Costa Unified School District v. Contra Costa County
Superior Court 103 Cal. App.5th 1243 (2024).
 
Requests Nos. 1 and 2 are GRANTED as they pertain to
controlling authority upon which this Court relies in its ruling.
Meet and Confer
            The Declaration
of Ramon Quintana reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in CCP § 439.
Discussion
Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District moves for judgment on the pleadings. Although
Defendant does not specify the third cause of action, this is the only cause of
action asserted against it as Doe 2, so the Court only addresses the third cause
of action.
1.         Third
Cause of Action (Public Entity Liability—Gov. Code, § 815.2 and 815.4.)
            A.        Re: Failure To File a Certificate of Merit.
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff fails to allege his age, such that this action was brought
within 22 years of the date he attained majority, or the date of discovery of psychological
harm, such that this action was brought within five years of discovery thereof.
(Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1(a).)
            However,
the Complaint alleges that the incidents of abuse took place in 1984 or 1985, and
Plaintiff fails to allege which provisions apply to him specifically which would
extend the statute of limitations to this action. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to allege
that he filed a Certificate of Merit which is required for anyone filing at 40 years
or older. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1.)     Defendant
argues that nothing in § 3401 waives the requirement for those filing within the
three-year widow in § 340.1(q), which runs from January 1, 2020 to December 31,
2022. Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1(k) provides that failure to comply with the certificate
requirement is grounds of demurrer.
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 340.1 was amended in 2023. However, the 2022 version of § 340.1, which
existed at the time this action was filed on December 13, 2022, read in relevant
part as follows:
(a) In an action
for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the time
for commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff
attains the age of majority or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers
or reasonably should have discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring
after the age of majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires
later, for any of the following actions:
 
(1) An action
against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault.
 
(2) An action
for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff,
if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the
childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
 
(3) An action
for liability against any person or entity if an intentional act by that person
or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the
injury to the plaintiff.
 
. . .
 
(c) An action
described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subdivision (a) shall not be commenced on or
after the plaintiff’s 40th birthday unless the person or entity knew or had reason
to know, or was otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that creates a risk of childhood
sexual assault by an employee, volunteer, representative, or agent, or the person
or entity failed to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards
to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault. For purposes of this subdivision, providing
or requiring counseling is not sufficient, in and of itself, to constitute a reasonable
step or reasonable safeguard. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to
constitute a substantive change in negligence law.
 
. . .
 
(f) Every plaintiff
40 years of age or older at the time the action is filed shall file certificates
of merit as specified in subdivision (g).
 
(g) Certificates
of merit shall be executed by the attorney for the plaintiff and by a licensed mental
health practitioner selected by the plaintiff declaring, respectively, as follows,
setting forth the facts which support the declaration:
 
(1) That the attorney
has reviewed the facts of the case, consulted with at least one mental health practitioner
who the attorney reasonably believes is knowledgeable of the relevant facts and
issues involved in the particular action, and concluded on the basis of that review
and consultation that there is reasonable and meritorious cause for the filing of
the action.
 
(2) That the mental
health practitioner consulted is licensed to practice and practices in this state
and is not a party to the action, that the practitioner is not treating and has
not treated the plaintiff, and that the practitioner has interviewed the plaintiff
and is knowledgeable of the relevant facts and issues involved in the particular
action, and has concluded, on the basis of the practitioner’s knowledge of the facts
and issues, that in the practitioner’s professional opinion there is a reasonable
basis to believe that the plaintiff had been subject to childhood sexual abuse.
 
(3) That the attorney
was unable to obtain the consultation required by paragraph (1) because a statute
of limitations would impair the action and that the certificates required by paragraphs
(1) and (2) could not be obtained before the impairment of the action. If a certificate
is executed pursuant to this paragraph, the certificates required by paragraphs
(1) and (2) shall be filed within 60 days after filing the complaint.
 
(h) If certificates
are required pursuant to subdivision (f), the attorney for the plaintiff shall execute
a separate certificate of merit for each defendant named in the complaint.
 
(i) In any action
subject to subdivision (f), a defendant shall not be served, and the duty to serve
a defendant with process does not attach, until the court has reviewed the certificates
of merit filed pursuant to subdivision (g) with respect to that defendant, and has
found, in camera, based solely on those certificates of merit, that there is reasonable
and meritorious cause for the filing of the action against that defendant. At that
time, the duty to serve that defendant with process shall attach.
 
(j) A violation
of this section may constitute unprofessional conduct and may be the grounds for
discipline against the attorney.
 
(k) The failure
to file certificates in accordance with this section shall be grounds for a demurrer[1]
pursuant to Section 430.10 or a motion to strike pursuant to Section 435.
 
. . .
 
(q) Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, any claim for damages described in paragraphs (1) through
(3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that
would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute
of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit had expired,
is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years of January 1, 2020.
A plaintiff shall have the later of the three-year time period under this subdivision
or the time period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this subdivision.
 
(r) The changes
made to the time period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that amended
this subdivision in 2019 apply to and revive any action commenced on or after the
date of enactment of that act, and to any action filed before the date of enactment,
and still pending on that date, including any action or causes of action that would
have been barred by the laws in effect before the date of enactment.
 
(Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 340.1 [Amended (as amended by Stats. 2018, Ch. 423) by Stats. 2019, Ch. 861,
Sec. 1. (AB 218) Effective January 1, 2020.[bold emphasis added].)
            Here,
the 1AC does not allege that Plaintiff was younger than 40 at the time this action
was filed. However, the Court’s records reflect that certificates of merit were
filed under seal on December 20, 2022. Thus, it appears that Plaintiff complied
with the Certificate of Merit requirement. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1(f) & (g).)
This ground for the motion for judgment on the pleadings is not persuasive.
            B.        Re: The Revival of Time-Barred Claims
by Retroactive Expansion of the Statute of Limitations and Elimination of Government
Claim Requirement Is Unconstitutional.
Defendant argues that the Legislature’s expansion of the statute of
limitation and revival of otherwise time-barred claims, and the elimination of the
government claim requirement, violates the prohibition against gift of public funds
in creating a liability for LAUSD and other public entities where one did not previously
exist, and because the legislation only served a private purpose, i.e., that certain
individuals may sue. This argument is not persuasive. 
Defendant cites the California Constitution, Art. XVI, § 6, which provides
in pertinent part: 
The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or to authorize
the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any county, city and county,
city, township or other political corporation or subdivision of the State now existing,
or that may be hereafter established, in aid of or to any person, association, or
corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the credit thereof, in
any manner whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of any individual, association,
municipal or other corporation whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift
or authorize the making of any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any
individual, municipal or other corporation whatever. . .and
Provided, further, that this section shall not prohibit any county,
city and county, city, township, or other political corporation or subdivision of
the State from joining with other such agencies in providing for the payment
of workers’ compensation, unemployment compensation, tort liability, or public
liability losses incurred by such agencies, by entry into an insurance pooling
arrangement under a joint exercise of powers agreement, or by membership in such
publicly–owned nonprofit corporation or other public agency as may be authorized
by the Legislature; . . .

     (Cal. Const, Art. XVI § 6 [bold emphasis
added].)
The legislative expansion of the statute of limitations is set
forth above at 1.A. The Legislature eliminated the government claims requirement
for actions for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual
assault. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.1(q).) 
See also Gov. Code, § 905(m), which
provides:
There shall be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) all claims for money
or damages against local public entities except any of the following:
 
. . .
 
(m) Claims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code
of Civil Procedure for the recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood
sexual assault.
     (Gov. Code
§ 905(m).)
Expanding the statutes of limitations
and eliminating the claims presentation requirement for these cases is not creating
new governmental liability where none exists—those long-standing (since 1963) statutory
bases are as follows: Government Code §§ 815.2[2], 815.4[3], and/or
815.6[4].
Rather, the new legislation removes
procedural barriers—the statute of limitations and government claim requirement—to
such liability, which Plaintiff still must prove. This may be difficult if the incidents
occurred long ago, as memories fade and documentary evidence/witnesses may be unavailable.
It does not constitute a gift of public funds because plaintiffs must prove liability
in order to obtain such funds by way of payment of a judgment---they are not simply
being given to him without the need for a trial. And, if a plaintiff should prevail
at trial, Defendant’s payment of a judgment does not constitute a gift of public
money:
 
“We are not strongly impressed with the contention of the respondent
that the application of funds to pay judgments obtained against the state constitutes
a gift of public money, within the prohibition of the Constitution. The state
cannot be subjected to suits against itself except by its express consent; but it
may surrender its sovereignty in that particular. It has done so in this
instance through the act of its duly authorized representative, the legislature.
The judgments which are to be paid bear no semblance to gifts. They must be
first obtained in courts of competent jurisdiction, to which the parties have submitted
their claims in the manner directed by law. In other words, they are judgments obtained
after the requirements of due process of law have been complied with. The
legislature has not attempted to create a liability against the state for any past
acts of negligence on the part of its officers, agents or employees -- something
it could not do, and the doing of which would, in effect, be the making of a gift
-- but has provided that ‘hereafter’ it shall be liable for certain things done
which cause damage to its citizens, its liability to be first determined by an appropriate
action at law.

     (Heron
v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Indeed, as Defendant now recognizes,
controlling authority has recently noted that:
[T]here is no gift clause violation
if liability existed when the alleged misconduct occurred, but the decision also
did not view satisfaction of the claim presentation requirement as an aspect
of the relevant underlying liability. Instead, “the liability of the state accrued
at the time of its [contractual] breach.” (Id. at p. 696.) As explained below,
this liability has been referred to as the state’s “substantive liability.” (Quigley,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 813.)

(West Contra Costa Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court (2024) 103 Cal.
App. 5th 1243, 1259.)
Under the GCA, the claims presentation requirement
is not part of the District’s substantive liability, so retroactive waiver of the
requirement [*1260]  does not “create any
liability or cause of action against the state where none existed before.” (Chapman,
supra, 104 Cal. at p. 696.)
 
Government Code section 905.8 states, “Nothing
in this part imposes liability upon a public entity unless such liability otherwise
exists.” The associated California Law Revision Commission comment explains that
this section “makes clear that the claims presentation provisions do not impose
substantive liability; some other statute must be found that imposes liability.”
(4 Cal. Law Revision Com. Rep. (1963) p. 1028; see Gormley v. Gonzalez (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 72, 80 [300 Cal. Rptr. 3d 156] [ “it is proper to look to comments
by the Commission, which are persuasive evidence of the intent of the Legislature
in enacting the Commission’s recommendations”].) Thus the question of the District’s
“substantive liability” is determined by reference to statutes outside the
claim presentation requirement. At the time of the alleged sexual misconduct (and
today), Government Code section 820, subdivision (a) provided that “a public employee
is liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the same extent as a private
person,” and Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provided that “A public
entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee
of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would,
apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee
or his personal representative.” (See also Dailey v. Los Angeles Unified Sch.
Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747 [87 Cal. Rptr. 376, 470 P.2d 360] [“Under section
815.2, subdivision (a) of the Government Code, a school district is vicariously
liable for injuries proximately caused by … negligence.”]; accord, C.A. v. William
S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 865–866 [138 Cal. Rptr.
3d 1, 270 P.3d 699].) The District does not dispute that those statutes impose liability
for the type of conduct alleged in the present case.
 
The California Supreme Court’s decision
in Quigley, supra, 7 Cal.5th 798, is also instructive. In that case the court
addressed, in the context of the GCA, the distinction between “questions of substantive
liability” and “the separate question whether public entities are amenable to suit
in state courts.” (Quigley, at p. 813.) The case involved Government Code
section 850.4, which bars public entity liability for injuries “resulting from the
condition of fire protection or firefighting equipment or facilities.” The issue
in the case was “whether this immunity provision constitutes [**19]  an affirmative defense that may be forfeited if
not timely raised or instead serves as a limitation on the fundamental jurisdiction
of the courts, such that the issue can never be forfeited or waived.” (Quigley,
at p. 802.) The court held the provision was [*1261]  an affirmative defense, because “California law
has long distinguished between limitations on the substantive liability of public
entities, on the one hand, and limitations on the power of the courts to hear cases
involving public entities, on the other.” (Id. at p. 811.) Quigley
emphasized the distinction between the state’s “substantive liability” for alleged
wrongdoing and the state’s “consent to suit”—there, to support a conclusion that
the immunity provision did not create a “jurisdictional bar” to suit. (Id.
at pp. 811–813.) As relevant in the present case, it is clear the claim presentation
requirement is a condition on the state’s consent to suit, and not an aspect of
the state’s substantive liability.
. . .
 
Accordingly, the GCA itself makes clear
that the District’s substantive liability existed when the alleged wrongful conduct
occurred; timely presentation of a claim was a condition to waiver of government
immunity, but it was not necessary to render the underlying conduct tortious. Because
a statute imposing liability on the District existed at the time of the sexual assaults,
Assembly Bill 218 imposes no new substantive liability under Chapman’s gift
clause analysis.

(West Contra Costa Unified School Dist. supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at 1259-61.) 
Further: 
[W]hile the differences between the statutes
of limitations and the claim presentation requirement are material in some circumstances,
the District has not shown the distinction is material under the gift clause.
When the Legislature waives either requirement, it exposes the public treasury to
potential causes of action that were otherwise barred. As we understand Chapman,
the gift clause is violated when conduct that was not tortious when it took
place is subsequently made tortious with retroactive effect. But the GCA itself
and the Quigley, Shirk, and Rubenstein decisions make clear that the
District’s substantive liability for the alleged sexual assaults exists independently
of the claim presentation requirement. Thus, we conclude that no “gift” occurred
when the Legislature waived the claim presentation requirement with respect to alleged
conduct for which the District was indisputably substantively liable when it happened.
(West Contra Costa Unified School Dist., supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at 1264.)
      Moreover:
[A]n expenditure of public funds that
serves a public purpose does not violate the gift clause, and “[t]he determination
of what constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature,
and its discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as that determination
has a reasonable basis.” (Carleson, supra, 5 Cal.3d at p. 746; accord, San
Diego County Dept. of Social Services v. Superior Court (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
761, 766 [36 Cal. Rptr. 3d 294]; Scott, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1605.)
Even if we had ruled that Assembly Bill 218 authorizes expenditures within the scope
of the gift clause, the expenditures are not “gifts” because they serve a public
purpose.

(West Contra Costa Unified School Dist., supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at 1265.)
            As such, Defendant’s
arguments which do not take into account West Contra Costa Unified School District
need not be addressed.
            The motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the First Amended Complaint is DENIED.


