..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the Judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 22STCV15814
Plaintiff's Name: Ashley Martinez
Defendant's Name: Falck USA, Inc.
People Names: Ashley Martinez, Margarita De Jesus
Company Names: Falck USA, Inc.
Places: Hospital, Ambulance
Dates: May 16, 2020, January 18, 2023, May 12, 2022, October 2021
Events: Fall from gurney, deposition, reporting injuries
Money: Statute of limitations
Intentions: Summary judgment, leave to amend
Facts: Plaintiff fell from gurney, reported injuries, felt pain immediately
Disputes: Statute of limitations, professional negligence
Acts: Plaintiff's deposition, Defendant's motion for summary judgment
Agreements: California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 340.5
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 437c, Section 340.5
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc., Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc., Sangster v. Paetkau, Canister v. Emergency Ambulance Service, Smith v. Ben Bennett, Inc., Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co., Gutierrez v. Mofid, Fox v. Ethicon Edo-Surgery, Inc., Union Bank v. Los Angeles County Superior Court, Bostrom v. County of San Bernardino
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 437c, Section 340.5
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements:
* Defendant's motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
* Plaintiff is permitted to bring a noticed motion seeking leave to amend within 10 days of this order.
* The Court finds Defendant has met its initial burden of showing this action is governed by Section 340.5 and the one-year statute of limitations.
* Plaintiff has failed to show a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he was receiving professional services.
* Plaintiff is allowed to bring a noticed motion seeking leave to amend the complaint to allege a cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The Judge's tentative ruling grants the Defendant's motion for summary judgment, finding that the Plaintiff's action is governed by the one-year statute of limitations set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 340.5. The Judge concludes that the Plaintiff discovered his injuries on the date of the incident, May 16, 2020, and therefore the statute of limitations began to run. The Plaintiff's argument that he was a dependent adult and unable to act on his own behalf is unsupported by evidence. The Judge also finds that the Plaintiff has failed to show a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he was receiving professional services. The Plaintiff is permitted to bring a noticed motion seeking leave to amend the complaint to allege a cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse.
