 Case Number:  23STCV11213    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  30 SARA MELGAR vs US FLOOR DESIGNS INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant’s motion for leave to file an amended answer is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to file the proposed amended answer attached as exhibit A to the motion within 10 days of this order.Moving party is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section¿473, subdivision¿(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party¿to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿¿(See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿(overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿“ ‘[I]t is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.’ (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 759-761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)Under¿California Rules of Court¿Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any,¿and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿  DiscussionDefendant seeks a court order permitting him to file an Amended Answer to allege settlement as an additional affirmative defense to the Complaint. Defendant argues that on March 15, 2023, prior to litigation, Defendant’s insurance company, NGIC, reached a valid and enforceable settlement with Plaintiff. However, Defendant contends that Plaintiff nevertheless filed the complaint, breaching the settlement agreement. Defendant also explains that he was unaware of the defense when he filed an answer.Defendant has complied with CRC Rule 3.1324 by including a copy of the proposed Amended Answer and indicating what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading. (Motion, Ex. A.) Defendant also alleges in the motion that the parties settled in prior to litigation, and Defendant was unaware of this defense when he filed the answer. This is sufficient to explain why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why it was not made earlier.Accordingly, the Court exercising its discretion liberally in favor of amendments, grants the unopposed motion for leave to file an amended answer.