  Case Number:  23STCV18639    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint
BACKGROUND
In this case, LA DUCHESSE, LTD and STEPHANIE JARIN (“Plaintiffs”)
seek damages against NORTON ASSOCIATES, LLC (“Defendant”) related to alleged
substandard conditions at the commercial property Plaintiffs leased from
Defendant. On 2/22/24, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the
Complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on
3/5/24, alleging the following causes of action: 1) Breach of Contract; 2) Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3) Private Nuisance; 4) Violation
of Penal Code Section 496; 5) Trespass; 6) Battery; (7) Unfair Business Practices;
8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (9) Violation of Civil
Code Section 51.9.
Plaintiffs’ motion seeks leave to file a proposed
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) to: (1) fill in blank spaces in the allegations
at paragraphs 25 and 61; (2) add references to other paragraphs of allegations
to the Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action; (3) fix the numbering of the
paragraphs; (4) add a prayer for relief for the Ninth Cause of Action.
Defendant opposes the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A trial court has discretion to allow a party to amend
a pleading in the furtherance of justice. Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a). “If
discovery and investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely
amendment to a pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” Mabie v.
Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596. 
“It is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1422, 1428.







­




 


 The Court does
have the discretion to deny leave to amend if it finds the party’s delay in
presenting the amendment was unwarranted, or when it determines that the other
party will be prejudiced due to needing more discovery or delay of the trial. Miles
v. City of Los Angeles (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 728, 739. Even if a party
delays in moving to amend, however, it is an abuse of discretion for a court to
deny leave to amend a pleading where the opposing party is not prejudiced by
the proposed amendment. Kittredge Sports Co. v Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1048.
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply
with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a), (b).) 
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs contend that they became aware of the need
to make changes to the FAC during meet and confer discussions with defense
counsel. The proposed amendment adds in references to paragraph numbers for
certain causes of action, fixes the paragraph numbering, and adds a prayer for
relief for the Ninth Cause of Action. Plaintiffs contend the proposed SAC does
not add factual allegations or causes of action.
Defendant opposes the motion because Plaintiffs added causes
of action to the FAC (which remain in the proposed SAC) without an order
expressly allowing leave to amend to add claims—i.e., the Fifth Cause of Action
for Trespass, and Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code Section
51.9. Following orders sustaining demurrers, complainants may amend only as
authorized by the court’s order and cannot add claims where outside the scope
of the order, unless it would directly respond to reasons for sustaining. Harris
v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023. After the court
grants leave to amend, complainants may add new causes of action, if it
“directly responds to the court’s reason for sustaining the earlier demurrer.” Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015. After a demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend, plaintiffs may add new claims involving legal
theories based upon prior allegations. Datig v. Dove Books, Inc. (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 964, 983, fn. 19, superseded on other grounds as stated in Sino
Century Dev. Ltd. v. Farley (2012) 211 Cal. App. 4th 688, 696. “[I]t is
irrelevant that new legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed
amendments ‘relate to the same general set of facts.”  Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.
App. 4th 739, 761. 
Plaintiffs did not have permission to include the two
new causes of action in the proposed SAC and they make no argument as to how or
why the Fifth and Eighth Causes of Action involve legal theories based on prior
allegations and/or responds to the Court’s reasoning in sustaining the
demurrer. The Court’s demurrer order did not expressly limit Plaintiffs’
ability to allege additional causes of action though the Court will be sure to
clarify the scope of amended pleading in any future demurrer ruling. For now, the
Court exercises its discretion to allow the filing of the SAC with these additional
causes of action. See Harlan
v. Department of Transp. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 868, 873 (“While the court
had discretion to require a noticed motion before permitting Harlan to file the
second amended complaint late, we think it also had discretion under these
circumstances to accept the filing without a noticed motion.”). Courts do not
consider the legal validity of the proposed amendments when considering a
motion for leave to amend. Atkinson, 109 Cal.App.4th at 760 (“the
better course of action would have been to allow … [plaintiff] to amend the
complaint and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other
appropriate proceedings.”). Thus, the legal sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ proposed
amendments does not factor into whether leave to amend is warranted because
Defendant can challenge the sufficiency of the SAC once it is filed and served.
Finally, Plaintiffs
have satisfied the procedural requirements for filing an amended complaint.
Plaintiffs included a copy of the proposed SAC, specified by reference to pages
and lines of the additions. Plaintiffs also included a declaration detailing
when Plaintiffs discovered the blanks and clerical mistakes in the FAC giving
rise to the proposed amendment and explaining that the proposed amendment is
necessary to clarify the allegations. 
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the motion. The proposed Second
Amended Complaint may be served and filed as a separate document within 10
days.