 Case Number:  21STCV23520    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



c&m investment group, ltd.,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HARVEY CHAMPLIN, 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


21STCV23520




Hearing Date:


October 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:30 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
BRIEFING ON THE ISSUES OF THE JUDGMENT AS A CONTRACT AND THE STATUTE OF
  LIMITATIONS 
 



 
Background 
Plaintiffs C&M Investment Group, Ltd. and Karlin Holdings Limited
Partnership (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June 23, 2021 against
Defendant Harvey Champlin (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) intentional interference with contractual relations and (2) intentional
interference with prospective economic benefit. 
On September 26, 2024, a Final Status Conference was held in this
matter. The Court’s September 26, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he Briefing schedule as to the issues of the judgment as a contract
and the statute of limitations is as follows: Defendant’s opening brief is due
September 26, 2024, Opposition is due by 4:00 p.m. on October 1, 2024, and the
reply is due at noon on October 2, 2024. The hearing on these issues will be on
October 3, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 50.” 
 
 
Discussion 
A.    Applicable Statute
of Limitations 
In his supplemental brief, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ two causes
of action for intentional interference with contractual relations and
intentional interference with prospective economic benefit are subject to the
two-year limitations period set forth in Code of
Civil Procedure section 339, subdivision (1). 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 339, subdivision (1) sets forth a two-year statute of
limitations for “[a]n action upon a contract, obligation or liability not
founded upon an instrument of writing, except as provided in Section 2725 of the Commercial Code or
subdivision 2 of Section 337 of this
code; or an action founded upon a contract, obligation or liability, evidenced
by a certificate, or abstract or guaranty of title of real property, or by a
policy of title insurance; provided, that the cause of action upon a contract,
obligation or liability evidenced by a certificate, or abstract or guaranty of
title of real property or policy of title insurance shall not be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery of the loss or damage suffered by the aggrieved
party thereunder.” 
Defendant cites to Knoell v. Petrovich (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 164, 168,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he third amended complaint alleges
that Attorney Petrovich published defamatory letters on December 5,
1994, and January 26, 1995, and slandered appellant at a February 16, 1995,
office conference. The action was filed November 14, 1997, more than
two years later. The trial court ruled that the defamation causes of action
were barred by the one-year statute of limitations (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (3)), and the causes of action for interference
with contractual relations and interference with prospective business advantage
were barred by the two-year statute of limitations. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. 1; Tu-Vu
Drive-In Corp. v. Davies (1967) 66 Cal. 2d 435, 437 [58 Cal.
Rptr. 105, 426 P.2d 505].) It did not err.”  
In their opposition to Defendant’s supplemental brief, Plaintiffs
argue that “the applicable limitations period is three years because the
gravamen of Plaintiffs’ claims is fraud.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 2:7-8.) Plaintiffs cite to Romano v. Wilbur Ellis & Co. (1947) 82 Cal.App.2d 670, 671, where the “Plaintiff sued in
tort arising from the alleged representations of defendants which induced a
third party to repudiate its contract with plaintiff.”[1]
The Romano Court found
that “[t]his is not an action for breach
of the contract between appellant and Pesquera. The latter is not a party to
the action. The suit is for damages for fraud. The accepted rule of the cases
hereinabove cited is that the gist of this type of action is fraud.” (Id. at
p. 673.) The Romano Court
further noted that “[t]he complaint sets forth that these false representations
were relied on by Pesquera, that they were uttered with the intent to mislead
Pesquera to the prejudice of plaintiff and that they were made for the purpose,
and accomplished the result, of gaining an advantage to the person in fault.
This is fraud under section 1573 of the Civil Code.
As an action based on fraud it comes within the three-year limitation of
subdivision 4, section 338, Code of Civil
Procedure. Since the complaint was filed within three years of the act
complained of, it is not barred by the statute.” (Id.
at p. 674 [internal quotations omitted].)
In his supplemental brief, Defendant
asserts that the limitations period set forth in Code
of Civil Procedure section 338 does not apply. Defendant asserts that “the ‘gravamen’
of the Complaint is Champlin’s purported interference with Plaintiffs’ efforts
to enforce the 2012 Default Judgment against Powers. Any ‘fraud’ referenced in
the Complaint relates to the allegedly ‘large-scale fraud perpetrated by
[Powers] over the course of more than six years that led to [the 2012 Default
Judgment].’ (Complaint at ¶ 1). The key allegations about Champlin focus on his
actions in setting up and managing financial structures for Powers’ benefit (Id., ¶¶ 14-17) and his role in managing
accounts and trusts, not making deceptive statements or misrepresentations. (Id., ¶¶ 18-24).” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 3:9-15.)

As discussed, the Romano
Court noted that “the gist of the action is the fraudulent inducement leading
to the breach of the contract. The complaint sets forth that these false
representations were relied on by Pesquera, that they were uttered with the
intent to mislead Pesquera to the prejudice of plaintiff and that they were
made for the purpose, and accomplished the result, of gaining an advantage to
the person in fault.” (Romano v. Wilbur Ellis &
Co., supra, 82
Cal.App.2d at p. 674 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Here,
Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendant made false representations that were
relied upon by a third party, which were made with the intent to mislead the
third party to the prejudice of Plaintiffs. Rather, as Defendant notes, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
“systemically aided Powers in
hiding Powers’ assets from collection.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[a]s a result of his activity, Champlin deprived Plaintiffs of the ability to
collect at least $12 million in assets from Powers and otherwise frustrated and
burdened Plaintiffs’ collection efforts, to the injury of Plaintiffs.” (Compl.,
¶ 16.) 
Plaintiffs assert that “Champlin committed
actual and constructive fraud by telling material lies to Plaintiffs while
under a duty (oath) to disclose the truth and with the intent and/or effect of
misleading Plaintiffs to their detriment.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 3:11-13.) However,
Plaintiffs do not appear to cite to any allegations of the Complaint stating
that Defendants told “material lies to Plaintiffs.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 3:11.)
Rather, Plaintiffs allege that “Champlin also misrepresented the nature and
extent of his activities for Powers in sworn testimony.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiffs also cite to SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific Bank (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 859, 864,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Plaintiffs assert that “Powers had such a relationship with Plaintiffs
by virtue of the Powers Judgment and owed them a duty not to hide assets.
Powers violating that duty by using Champlin to move money and funnel him cash
while concealing that the money was his is a classic constructive fraud and
fraudulent concealment. And Champlin aided and abetted and conspired with
Powers, and Plaintiffs’ allegations therefore show he is thus equally
responsible for this fraud.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 4:9-14.) 
But the Complaint here does not appear to
allege that Defendant (as opposed to Powers) had any duty to disclose a
material fact to Plaintiffs, or that Defendant “intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff[s]…” (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific Bank, supra, 207 Cal.App.4th at p. 864.)
Plaintiffs also do not appear to allege that they were “unaware of the fact and
would not have acted as [they] did if [they] had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact.” (Ibid.) Further, the Complaint does not appear
to specifically allege that Defendant “aided and abetted and conspired with
Powers…” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 4:12-13.) As noted by Defendant, Plaintiffs
appear to “conflate Powers’ alleged fraudulent conduct with Champlin’s
actions…” (Defendant’s Reply at pp. 3:28-4:1.) 
As to the argument concerning constructive
fraud, Defendant notes that “[c]onstructive fraud arises on a breach of duty by
one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which induces
justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.” (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield Sch. Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 129.) Here,
Plaintiffs do not appear to allege any confidential or fiduciary relationship
between Plaintiffs and Defendant. 
Plaintiffs also assert that “Champlin
committed wire fraud.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 4:1.) However, the Complaint
does not appear to allege that Defendant committed wire fraud. In addition,
Plaintiffs cite to non-binding federal authority to support this argument.
Plaintiffs also rely on Abselet v. Levene Neale
Bender Yoo and Brill L.L.P. (C.D.Cal. Aug. 10, 2017, No. CV 16-6263-JFW
(JEMx)) 2017 U.S.Dist.LEXIS 222730, a non-binding federal case. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Plaintiffs have demonstrated that the three-year statute of
limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 338 applies here. The Court finds that Defendant has shown that the
two-year statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 339,
subdivision (1)
applies. 
B.     Judgment as a
Contract 
Next, Defendant argues that “default judgments are not contracts for
purposes of intentional interference with contractual relations.” (Defendant’s
Brief at p. 4:10-11.) In the first cause of action of the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege, inter alia, that “[o]n January 17, 2012, this Court entered
judgment against Powers and in Plaintiffs’ favor in the amount of
$36,680,676.46 in C&M Investment Group Ltd. & Karlin Holdings
Limited Partnership v. Philip Richard Powers & Neil Campbell, Case No.
BC378888.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs allege that “Champlin engaged in the
above conduct with the intent and result of frustrating Plaintiffs’ collection
efforts.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) As discussed, Plaintiffs allege that “Champlin
systemically aided Powers in hiding Powers’ assets from collection.” (Compl., ¶
14.)
“Tortious interference with
contractual relations requires (1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141 [internal
quotations omitted].) Defendant
asserts that here, “four of the five elements expressly require or are
predicated upon the existence of a valid, performing contract between the
plaintiff and a third party. In this case, there was never such a contract
between Plaintiffs and Powers, nor did Powers ever agree to pay Plaintiffs the
amount of the 2012 Default Judgment.” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 4:22-5:1.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiffs assert that “the Powers Judgment is a contract for Plaintiffs’
claims.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 6:7.) Plaintiffs cite to Grotheer v. Meyer Rosenberg, Inc. (1936) 11 Cal.App.2d 268, 269-270, where “Plaintiffs
[sought]…to hold the defendant Meyer Rosenberg, Inc., liable for the payment of
a money judgment previously obtained by plaintiffs against the defendant Meyer
Rosenberg, individually, upon the ground that said corporation is the alter ego of Meyer Rosenberg, individually.
At the time of the commencement of the action they secured a writ of attachment
which they caused to be levied on a bank account of $ 624.33 standing in
the name of said corporation. Thereafter the corporation moved to dissolve the
attachment, and pursuant to said motion an order was entered vacating, setting
aside and recalling the writ of attachment and directing the sheriff to release
all property levied upon.” The plaintiffs appealed the order. (Id. at
p. 270.) The Grotheer Court noted that “[i]t is true that the present case is
based on a judgment for the direct payment of money, whereas the causes of
action stated in the two cases above cited were based upon original contractual
obligations for the direct payment of money; but the distinction mentioned does
not alter the situation, because it is well settled that an action based
on a judgment is an action based on a contract, and this is so
irrespective of the nature of the transaction on which the judgment is founded,
and even though the judgment be rendered upon an unassignable cause of action
for tort, it being held in this regard that after the recovery of the
judgment, whether it is for a tort or upon contract, the judgment becomes a
debt which the judgment debtor is obligated to pay and the law implies a
contract on his part to pay it.” (Id. at pp. 272-273 [internal citations omitted].) Plaintiffs also cite to Becker v. Becker (1950) 36 Cal.2d 324, 326, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]his court
has said recently that [a]n interlocutory judgment of divorce is,
therefore, so far as it determines the rights of the parties, a contract
between them…” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
In his brief, Defendant
argues that “Grotheer’s equation of judgments and contracts is limited
to specific procedural contexts, primarily related to attachment statutes.”
(Defendant’s Brief at p. 5:14-15.) Defendant cites to 1A Cal. Jur. 3d Actions § 19, which provides, inter alia, that “[f]or
some procedural purposes, such as the interpretation and application of an
attachment statute referring to actions arising on contract, a judgment is
treated as a contract, and an action on a judgment is a contract action, since
the law implies a contract by the judgment debtor to pay the judgment.” (Citing Grotheer
v. Meyer Rosenberg, Inc., supra, 11 Cal.App.2d 268.) 
Defendant also cites to 6 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th Prov Rem § 62
(2024), which provides that “[a] judgment is, for some purposes, regarded
as contractual or quasi-contractual; and an action on a judgment is on ‘implied
contract’ within the meaning of the attachment statute, even though the
judgment was rendered on a tort claim. (Grotheer v.
Meyer Rosenberg (1936) 11 C.A.2d 268, 272, 53 P.2d 996; Minor v. Minor (1959) 175 C.A.2d 277, 279, 345 P.2d 954 [action
to recover defaulted installments on divorce decree]; see 3 Cal. Proc.
(6th), Actions, § 151.).” 
In their brief,
Plaintiffs counter that “[b]oth secondary sources that Champlin cites are
unavailing as both recognize that a judgment is, for some purposes, regarded as
contractual or quasi-contractual…and point to the attachment statute as merely
one example of such a purpose.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 7:20-23, emphasis
omitted.) The Court agrees. As set forth
above, the Grotheer Court found that “after the recovery of the judgment,
whether it is for a tort or upon contract, the judgment becomes a debt which
the judgment debtor is obligated to pay and the law implies a contract on his
part to pay it.” (Grotheer v. Meyer Rosenberg, Inc., supra,
11 Cal.App.2d at p. 273.)
Defendant also argues that “[t]he
California Legislature has enacted comprehensive statutory schemes governing
judgment enforcement and fraudulent transfers, including the Enforcement of
Judgments Law (EJL), Code of Civil Procedure §§
680.010-724.260, and the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (UVTA), Civil Code §§ 3439-3439.14. These statutes already
provide robust and efficient remedies for judgment creditors…” (Defendant’s
Brief at p. 6:23-26.) But the Court does not see how this forecloses
Plaintiff’s cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations. 
In light of the foregoing, the
Court agrees with Plaintiffs that “the Powers Judgment is a contract for
purposes of Plaintiffs’ [first cause of action].” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p.
2:5.) 
Lastly, Defendant argues that “[t]he plaintiffs’ cause of action for
intentional interference with prospective economic benefit (IIPEB) fails as a
matter of law because the 2012 Default Judgment does not constitute a valid
business expectancy.” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 7:12-14.) Defendant asserts that
“the 2012 Default Judgment is not a valid business expectancy because it did
not arise from ordinary commercial dealings.” (Defendant’s Brief at p. 8:4-5.) But
as noted by Plaintiffs, this “third issue [is] not reflected in the Court’s
order directing supplemental briefing.” (Plaintiffs’ Brief at p. 1:22-23.) As
set forth above, the Court’s September 26, 2024 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he Briefing schedule as to the issues of the judgment as a
contract and the statute of limitations is as follows:…” Defendant does not
indicate that he obtained leave to address this issue. Thus, the Court declines
to consider it. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Defendant has shown that the two-year statute of limitations set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 339, subdivision (1) applies to Plaintiffs’ causes of
action. The Court also finds that Plaintiffs have shown that the alleged “Powers Judgment” is a contract
for purposes of Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations. 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  October
 4, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


