  Case Number:  20STCV41848    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



LA LIVE THEATRE, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  20STCV41848




Hearing Date:


October 4, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF LA LIVE THEATRE, LLC’S FIRST AMENDED
  VERIFIED COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF LA LIVE THEATRE’S FIRST AMENDED
  VERIFIED COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
On November 2, 2020, Plaintiff LA Live Theatre, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed a “Verified Complaint for Refund of Property Taxes Paid” (the
“Complaint”) in this action against Defendant County of Los Angeles
(“Defendant”). On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Verified Complaint for Refund of Property Taxes Paid (“FAC”). The FAC alleges
one cause of action for recovery of taxes paid after denial of claims for
refund.  
            The FAC alleges, inter alia,
that “Plaintiff owns and operates a performing arts theater venue, formerly
known as the Nokia Theatre and presently called the Microsoft Theatre, located
within the LA Live Entertainment Complex at Figueroa Street and Olympic
Boulevard in downtown Los Angeles. The theater’s building improvements were
assessed for property tax purposes following completion of construction on or
about October 12, 2007. Plaintiff administratively challenged that new
construction assessment before the Los Angeles County Assessment Appeals Board
No. 1 (the ‘Appeals Board’ or ‘Board’). This action is an
appeal
from the administrative decision by the Appeals Board on the base year value
for the newly-constructed theater building improvements as of October 12, 2007.”
(FAC, ¶ 1.) 
            Defendant now demurs to the first
(and sole) cause of action of the FAC. Defendant also moves to strike portions
of the FAC. Plaintiff opposes both. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice. The Court notes that it takes
judicial notice only of the fact of the existence of Exhibits 1-6 and the
identified portions of the Administrative Record in this case. The Court notes
that “[a]lthough the existence of a document may be judicially
noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document and its proper
interpretation are not subject to judicial notice if those matters are
reasonably disputable. StorMedia stated: In ruling on a demurrer, a
court may consider facts of which it has taken judicial notice. This includes
the existence of a document. When judicial notice is taken of a document,
however, the truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are
disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113 [internal quotations and
citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    
Uncertainty 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams ¿v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿¿.) ¿¿
First,
Defendant argues that the FAC is uncertain. As noted by Defendant, the FAC
alleges that “[t]he Board’s Findings are deficient as a matter of law and
violate Section 1611.5, Rule 324(e), and case law, including Next
Century and Farr…” (FAC, ¶ 37.) Defendant asserts that the FAC is
uncertain because it “does
not identify a single specific finding Plaintiff alleges is insufficient and
instead simply makes general allegations of deficiency…” (Demurrer at p. 8:3-4.) In addition, Defendant
cites to Roe v. Hesperia Unified School
Dist. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, 23,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “to state a claim against a public entity,
every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded
with particularity.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Defendant asserts that it
is “left to guess at what findings Plaintiff will claim are deficient. This is
not consistent with the standard required of pleading statutory liability
against a public entity.” (Demurrer at p. 9:13-15.)
However, in Roe v. Hesperia Unified School Dist., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at page 23,
cited by Defendant, the Court of Appeal also noted that “[t]o survive a
demurrer, however, even against a governmental entity…the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) In addition, as Defendant acknowledges, the FAC alleges
as follows: 
 
“The Board’s Findings are deficient as a
matter of law and violate Section 1611.5, Rule 324(e), and case law, including Next
Century and Farr, because, among other reasons: the Findings do not
fairly disclose the Board’s determination of all material points raised in the
Applications and at the hearing; the Findings do not set forth findings, or
sufficient findings, to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and
the Board’s ultimate decision or order; the Findings randomly leap from
evidence to conclusion; the Findings do not draw or include all legally
relevant sub-conclusions supportive of the Board’s ultimate decision; the
Findings fail to enable a reviewing court to trace and examine, or adequately
trace and examine, the Board’s mode of analysis; the Findings do not address,
or sufficiently address, specifically the Board’s reasoning for accepting or
rejecting each issue raised by the parties; the Findings do not address, or
sufficiently address, specifically the Board’s reasoning for accepting or
rejecting each valuation of the Subject Property set forth by the parties; the
Findings do not address, or sufficiently address, specifically the Board’s
reasoning for accepting or rejecting the evidence set forth by the parties; the
Findings do not tell the parties, and reviewing courts, why the Board rejects
evidence in other than conclusory terms; the Findings do not provide sufficient
explanation or analysis for the Board’s ultimate decision; and the Findings
force reviewing courts into unguided and resource-consuming explorations and/or
to grope through the record to determine whether some combination of credible
evidentiary items which supported some line of factual and legal conclusions
supported the Board’s ultimate decision.” (FAC, ¶ 37, emphasis omitted.) 
In
addition, Plaintiff notes that “[a] demurrer for uncertainty does not lie where the ambiguous
facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party.” (Schessler v. Keck (1954) 125 Cal.App.2d 827, 836.) Plaintiff asserts that
here, “Plaintiff’s particular reasons for claiming the Findings are deficient
not only are presumptively, but are actually, within Defendant’s knowledge.”
(Opp’n at p. 7:18-19.) As noted by Plaintiff, Defendant’s demurrer acknowledges
that “[i]n Plaintiff LA Live Theatre, LLC’s Supplemental Closing Brief…three
alleged deficiencies in the Findings are identified…” (See Demurrer at
p. 5:5-20.)
In
light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendant has demonstrated
that the FAC is uncertain. 
Defendant
also argues that “[t]he
First Amended Complaint does not state facts sufficient to establish a cause of
action under the standards applicable to findings of fact issued by Assessment
Appeals Boards.” (Demurrer at p. 9:24-25.) Defendant cites to Revenue and Taxation Code section 1611.5, which
provides in part that “[w]ritten findings of fact of the county board shall be
made if requested in writing by a party up to or at the commencement of the
hearing…The written findings of fact shall fairly disclose the board’s
determination of all material points raised by the party in his or her petition
and at the hearing, including a statement of the method or methods of valuation
used in appraising the property.” Defendant also cites to Topanga Assn. for a Scenic Community v. County of
Los Angeles (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506,
514, where the California Supreme Court discusses “Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, the state’s
administrative mandamus provision which structures the procedure for judicial
review of adjudicatory decisions rendered by administrative agencies.” The Topanga
Court concluded that “implicit in section 1094.5 is
a requirement that the agency which renders the challenged decision must set
forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate
decision or order.” (Id. at p. 515.) 
Defendant argues that here,
“[t]he Findings meet these standards…The Findings are 45 pages long, containing
detailed analysis of the facts of the case and the contentions of the parties,
concluding with the AAB’s Findings and Decision synthesizing and analyzing the
facts and contentions of the parties. In performing this thorough evaluation,
the AAB determined that the income approaches to value presented by the parties
were all unreliable and not based on market rent, the most reliable method of
valuing the property was the cost approach presented by Defendant, and there
was no evidence supporting the need to make any deduction from the cost
approach valuation to account for obsolescence.” (Demurrer at p. 11:10-16.) Defendant
asserts that “the findings on the unreliability of the 2005 pro forma are not deficient,”
that “the findings of the AAB on the lack of comparability of the Greek Theatre
and Shrine Auditorium are clear, unequivocal and supported by the record,” and that
“there is no deficiency in the findings on external obsolescence.” (Demurrer at
pp. 13:9; 14:11-12; 15:5.) In the opposition, Plaintiff counters that “the
Board’s Findings are legally deficient for numerous reasons…” (Opp’n at p.
9:19.)
As an initial matter, the
Court finds that these are factual arguments that are not appropriate on
demurrer. The Court notes that “¿[o]n a demurrer a court’s function¿is limited
to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint. A demurrer is simply not the
appropriate procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts.¿” (¿Joslin
v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage¿(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374 [internal quotations and
citation omitted]¿.) Defendant
asserts that “[t]he three findings that Plaintiff has identified in its
Supplemental Closing Brief at 23-24 as being deficient meet the standards applicable
to findings by administrative agencies as can be determined by review of the
record in this case judicial
notice of relevant portions of which has been requested.” (Demurrer at pp.
12:26-13:1.) However, “[t]he hearing on
demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the
guise of having the court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness
or proper interpretation are disputable.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 114.) “Taking judicial
notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or
accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Id.
at p. 113.) 
Lastly,
the first cause of action does not solely concern Plaintiff’s allegation that
“[t]he Findings made by the Board are…deficient…” (FAC, ¶ 47.) The first cause
of action also alleges, inter alia, that “the Appeals Board
over-assessed the Subject Property as of October 12, 2007,” and that “[t]he
property taxes for which Plaintiff claims a refund are based on an assessment
and taxes that were erroneously and/or illegally assessed, levied and/or
collected.” (FAC, ¶¶ 39-40.) In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “even if the Demurrer were sustained (it should not be), that would only
foreclose Plaintiff’s deficient Findings claim, but could not result in
dismissal of the entire action, because the Court must still decide the primary
issue in this case, whether the Board erred in its decision on the assessed
values of the subject theater.” (Opp’n at p. 5:22-25.) As Defendant
acknowledges, ¿¿“[a]
demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.” (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682;
see also Kong ¿v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047 [“a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part
of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿¿”].) Here,
Defendant appears to demur only to a portion of the first cause of action and
acknowledges that “[i]t may be argued that the present demurrer is attacking
just a portion of Plaintiff’s single cause of action.” (Demurrer at p. 7, fn.
3.) 
 In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC. 
            Motion
to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
Defendant moves to strike “[t]he entirety of paragraphs 33-37,” “[t]he entirety of
paragraphs 46-48,” “[t]he remaining allegations of the First Cause of Action in
Paragraphs 38-45,” and “[t]he entirety of the Prayer for Relief, including
paragraphs 3-4.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:7-16.) The Court notes that
the notice of motion does not appear to specify what “remaining allegations of
the First Cause of Action” Defendant is referring to. It appears that Defendant
seeks to strike all of the paragraphs contained within the first cause of
action. 
In
the motion Defendant states that “[t]he grounds for striking the matter
described above in the Notice of Motion to Strike and Section III.A. of this
memorandum is that the First Amended Complaint is not drawn in conformity with
California law since it is uncertain, fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, fails to identify any findings that it claims are
deficient and thereby fails to plead with particularity the existence of
statutory liability against a public entity as required as described in Section
III of the Demurrer Memorandum. Moreover, the findings Plaintiff claims are
deficient in its briefing comply in every respect with the standards required
of findings by an administrative agency as described in detail in Sections
III.B. and III.C. of the Demurrer Memorandum.” (Mot. at p. 11:3-10.) As discussed
in further detail above, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first
cause of action of the FAC. Thus, the Court does not find that Defendant has
demonstrated grounds to strike the allegations identified in Defendant’s notice
of motion. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike. 
///
///
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause
of action of the FAC is overruled. Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
The Court orders
Defendant to file and serve its answer to the FAC within 10 days of the date of
this order.¿¿ 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  October 4, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court