  Case Number:  19STCV16903    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  28           Having considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules
as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 15, 2019, Plaintiff Christopher A. Gough (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Beth A. Moore, M.D. (“Moore”) and Does 1-50 for medical
malpractice and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On
February 20, 2020, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Moore and
Does 1-50 for medical malpractice. 
On
April 14, 2020, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Moore and
Does 1-50 for medical malpractice. 
On
April 21, 2020, Moore filed an answer. 
On
May 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Deborah Schwartz, individually and as successor in interest
to Christopher A. Gough, decedent, and Margaret Gough and Louise Gough, minors,
by and through their guardian ad litem Deborah Schwartz (collectively, “Plaintiffs”),
filed a third amended complaint against Defendants Moore, California Colorectal
Surgeons, and Does 1-50 for wrongful death and survivor damages. 
On
September 1, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint against Defendants
Moore, California Colorectal Surgeons,
and Does 1-50 for wrongful death and survivor damages. 
On
October 3, 2022, Defendants Moore and Colon & Rectal Medical Services Group,
Inc. dba California Colorectal Surgeons (erroneously named/served as California
Colorectal Surgeons) filed an answer. 
On March
7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement. 
On September
3, 2024, Petitioner Deborah Schwartz (“Petitioner”) filed petitions to dismiss the
claims of minor Plaintiffs Margaret Gough and Louise Gough.  The petitions (submitted on the Judicial
Council form for a petition to approve a minor’s compromise) were set for
hearing on November 1, 2024.  The Court
continued the hearings to November 5, 2024. 
PETITIONER’S REQUESTS 
Petitioner
asks the Court to dismiss minor Plaintiffs’ claims despite the lack of a settlement
with Defendants. 
DISCUSSION 
The
case arises from the illness and death of the minor Plaintiffs’ father (“decedent”),
who received medical treatment from Defendants. 
Petitioner, the minor Plaintiffs’ mother and decedent’s wife, states
that dismissal is appropriate based on information provided in Defendants’
motion for summary judgment. 
The
petitions include a declaration by Plaintiffs’ counsel stating that, after consulting
with experts, counsel “concluded that Plaintiff would not be able to present
evidence sufficient to overcome the motion for summary judgment and informed
our client of the same.” 
The
Court grants the petitions and dismisses minor Plaintiffs’ claims. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the petition to dismiss minor Plaintiff Margaret Gough’s claims against Defendants Beth A.
Moore, M.D. and Colon & Rectal Medical Services Group, Inc. dba California
Colorectal Surgeons (erroneously named/served as California Colorectal
Surgeons) filed by Petitioner Deborah
Schwartz on September 3, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS the petition to dismiss minor Plaintiff Louise Gough’s claims
against Defendants Beth A. Moore, M.D. and Colon & Rectal Medical Services
Group, Inc. dba California Colorectal Surgeons (erroneously named/served as
California Colorectal Surgeons) filed by Petitioner Deborah Schwartz on
September 3, 2024. 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Petitioner
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.