  Case Number:  22TRCV00993    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  July 11, 2024CASE NUMBER:  22TRCV00993  CASE NAME: Gardena Neighbors LLC v. WG Holdings SPC, LLC, et al.     MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Bridgeland Resources LLC f/k/a WG Holdings SPV, LLC  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Gardena Neighbors LLC DEFAULT DATE:  May 4, 2023  MOTION:  (1) Motion to Set Aside Default  Tentative Rulings:  (1) Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment is tentatively GRANTED. However, the Court will allow oral argument as to whether the hearing should be continued until after the subpoenaed information is provided to plaintiff.   I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ Factual¿¿¿  On October 20, 2022, Plaintiff, Gardena Neighbors LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, WG Holdings SPV, LLC (f/k/a Bridgeland Resources LLC) and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint seeks declaratory relief of an alleged controversy between Plaintiff and Defendant where Plaintiff has alleged that the oil and gas lease is now terminated because: (1) by its own terms given that CalGEM reports are the well at issue is “Idle”; and (2) indefinite leases are generally void under California Law and the underlying lease is an indefinite lease Defendant contends that the oil and gas lease is still in effect.   On March 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Entry of Default as to Defendant, which the Clerk entered that same day.    Further, on May 4, 2023, this Court made a ruling as to the judgment in this case noting that on March 17, 2023, after hearing the testimony and evidence presented by Plaintiff’s COO, Ben Eilenberg and its attorney Richard B. Jacobs, that the oil and gas lease originally entered into on or about May 29, 1939, by and between Carroll M. Hatfield and Bessie Hatfield, Security-First Company, and Apex Petroleum Corporation, as subsequently amended, has expired via its own terms as to the property identified as APN 6129-023-029 as the well on site is now designated as Idle by CalGEM and has been observed to no longer be producing.   On June 7, 2024, this Court ruled on Plaintiff’s motion for post-judgment discovery in anticipation of the motion to set aside default. The Court granted the motion in part, specifically as to the subpoenas. However, the Court denied the motion as to the 402 hearing with Defendant’s PMK.   Now, Defendant has filed a Motion to Set Aside Default against it.   Procedural   On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment and Leave to Defend Action. On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief.     II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE   Along with its moving papers, Defendant filed a request for judicial notice, requesting this Court take judicial notice of the following:   Exhibit A: A true and correct copy of information (printed/saved on May 11, 2024) from the California Secretary of State’s website regarding Defendant Bridgeland Resources, LLC.  Exhibit B: A true and correct copy of the Application to Register a Foreign Limited Liability Company (LLC) filed by Defendant, on June 15, 2021, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website).  Exhibit C: A true and correct copy of the Foreign Limited Liability Company (LLC) Name Change Amendment filed by Defendant, on September 28, 2022, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website).  Exhibit E: A true and correct copy of the Statement of Information filed by Defendant, on January 29, 2024, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website).  Exhibit F: A true and correct copy of the Statement of Information filed by “WG Holdings, LLC,” on June 10, 2019, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website).  Exhibit G: A true and correct copy of the “LLC Termination – Certificate of Cancellation” filed by “WG Holdings, LLC,” on January 31, 2020, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website). Exhibit H: A true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Complaint filed October 20, 2022 (in this case).  Exhibit I: A true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s “Proof of Service of Summons” filed February 17, 2023 (in this case).  Exhibit J: A true and correct copy of the Los Angeles Superior Court’s online case summary (i.e., docket) for this case (available via “LASC - Case Access,” and printed/saved on May 6, 2024).  Exhibit K: A true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default filed February 17, 2023 (in this case).  Exhibit L: A true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default filed March 13, 2023 (in this case).  Exhibit M: A true and correct copy of this Court’s March 17, 2023 Minute Order regarding “Hearing on Motion - Other Default Prove-up” (in this case).  Exhibit N: A true and correct copy of this Court’s Judgment entered and filed on May 4, 2023 (in this case).  Exhibit O: A true and correct copy of the Notice of Entry of Judgment filed by the deputy clerk on May 4, 2023 (in this case).  Exhibit T: A true and correct copy of the Statement of Information filed by “CSC - Lawyers Incorporating Service,” on February 20, 2023, with the California Secretary of State (and available on the Secretary of State’s website).  The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request and takes judicial notice of the above.   III. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard  The Motion is brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5.  Courts may set aside a default or default judgment due to lack of actual notice. Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 states:“(a) When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.¿ (b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.¿ (c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action.”¿  Discussion   Here, Defendant is moving to set aside the default judgment entered against it on March 4, 2024. As noted in Defendant’s opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel post-judgment discovery, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s alleged service did not result in actual notice to Defendant of the summons and complaint. Defendant argues that the proof already on file readily illustrates that the wrong entity was served in lieu of service on Defendant. Defendant further maintains that it did not become aware of this action until January 29, 2024, when a prospective lender of Defendant inquired about it based on its background check findings. (Declaration of Scott Wood (“Wood Decl.”), ¶ 20.) Defendant contends that after finding out about the judgment in January of this year, it acted reasonably, first to try and avoid the need for this motion, and then subsequently filing it. (Declaration of Ernest J. Guadiana (“Guadiana Decl.”), ¶ 25-43.)   In opposition, plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to bring this motion within 180 days of being served with the judgment. However, this is not the case. Plaintiff contends that Judgment was entered on May 4, 2023, but the judgment (as distinct from the Clerk’s default) was not entered until May 4, 2024. Further, the record demonstrates that there is clearly an entity issue in this case. If it turns out to be true the Plaintiff has been serving the incorrect entity, notice of the judgment would be of no meaning if Plaintiff sent that notice to the wrong entity. As such, this Court notes that the two-year period to seek to vacate a default judgment seems more applicable to this case based on the disputed factual issue as to whether Plaintiff was serving the wrong entity the entire time.   Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas may be determinative of whether actual notice was provided. Plaintiff notes that although the Plaintiff nor the Court have answers as to actual notice, that if it is determined there is no overlap of principals/names for service between Defendant the party served, then the issue is moot, and Defendant received “actual notice.” Plaintiff next argues that the issue  of inexcusable neglect and avoidance of service weighs in favor of Plaintiff as it raises a question of whether failure to change the contact and operator information with CalGEM is inexcusable neglect and/or avoidance when Defendant knew that “WG Holdings SPV, LLC” was never intended to be the company’s name permanently or long-term.  In its reply brief, Defendant argues that the onus was on Plaintiff to demonstrate requisite diligence to ensure proper service. Defendant also contends that it did not avoid service and has attached numerous exhibits which were judicially noticed by this Court.   Based on the foregoing, this Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion to set aside, as Defendant has moved in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5. However, this Court will allow oral argument as to whether Defendant’s motion to set aside should be continued until after Plaintiff receives information from the subpoenas.  

