 Case Number:  23TRCV00841    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 July 11, 2024    CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00841  CASE NAME:                        Carlitta  Smith v. Robin Lynn Thompson, et al.                                                    MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Robin Lynn Thompson   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Carlitta Smith   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.  MOTION:                             (1) Motion to Strike   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED, without prejudice  to being re-filed after the default is lifted or vacated.   Alternatively, perhaps the  parties could consider a stipulation to vacate the clerk’s default and to  withdraw the punitive damages allegations in exchange for Defendant’s agreement  to file an answer rather than a pleading motion     I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual              On  March 21, 2023, Plaintiff, Carlitta Smith (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Defendants, Robin Lynn Thompson, Terry Holt as Trustee of the Holt  Living Trust dated September 6, 2002, Sandra Hold as Trustee of the Holt Living  Trust dated September 6, 2002, and DOES 1 through 25. The complaint alleges  causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Common Law Strict Liability; and (3)  Strict Liability (Dog Bite Statute).                 On  February 9, 2024, the Court’s Clerk entered Default against Defendant, Robin  Lynn Thompson.                Four  months later, without having first obtained relief from the default, Defendant,  Robin Lynn Thompson (“Thompson” and/or “Defendant Thompson”) filed a Motion to  Strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint.    B. Procedural   On June 11, 2024, Defendant  Thompson filed this Motion to Strike. On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed.    II. ANALYSIS   A. Motion to Strike  ¿ Any party, within the time allowed to respond to  a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any  part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a  motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,  strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d  767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of  the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant  allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;  is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or  defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations  of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for  moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial  notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿    B. Discussion     Here, Defendant Thompson’s motion seeks to  strike the following portions of Plaintiff’s complaint as they relate to  punitive damages: (1) Page 7, Line 7, Item number 35: For punitive damages; (2)  Page 8, Line 4, Item number 43: For punitive damages; and (3) Page 8, Line 13,  For punitive damages.   However, a threshold issue raised in the  Opposition brief is whether Defendant Thompson has the ability to bring this  motion at all. This Court notes that Entry of Default was entered against  Defendant Thompson on February 9, 2024. Since then, Defendant Thompson has not  moved for a Motion to Set Aside Default. As such, and as noted in Plaintiff’s  opposition, she may not “participate” in this case by filing the Motion to  Strike. “The entry of default terminates a defendant’s rights to take any  further affirmative steps in the litigation until either its default is set  aside or a default judgment is entered.” (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa  AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 15 Cal.App.3d 381, 385.) Further, “[a]  defendant against whom a default has been entered is out of court and is not  entitled to take any further steps in the cause affecting plaintiff’s right of  action; he cannot thereafter, until such default is set aside in a proper proceeding,  file pleadings or move for a new trial or demand notice of subsequent proceedings.”  (Brooks v. Nelson (1928) 95 Cal.App. 144, 147-48.)    Thus,  this motion is denied on the grounds that Defendant Thompson currently has  default entered against her and has not moved for it to be set aside, rendering  her “out of court” until then. III.  CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Thompson’s Motion to Strike  is DENIED without prejudice, to be brought if and when Defendant Thompson moves  for the entry of default against her to be set aside.    Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.