 Case Number:  23BBCV01169    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
STEVEN ALFARO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ERIC PETER GOLDMAN,
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 23BBCV01169
  
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further REsponses to
  request for production of documents
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Steven Alfaro (“Plaintiff”)
filed the complaint for personal injuries and property damage on May 24, 2023
against Defendant Eric Peter Goldman (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges that on June 10, 2021,
Defendant negligently owned, operated, entrusted, managed, repaired, and
maintained his motor vehicle such that his vehicle collided with a vehicle
occupied by Plaintiff.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Request for Production of
Documents, set one (“RPD”) No. 8.  
On December 22, 2023, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.  
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant’s further response to RPD No. 8.  Plaintiff states that according to Defendant’s
response to the FROGs, Defendant verified that sub rosa surveillance was
performed on Plaintiff on June 13, 2022 and October 6, 2022 by Badcat
Investigations and that a report was prepared on October 7, 2022.  
            RPD No. 8 seeks any and all
documents pertaining to surveillance of Plaintiff, including but not limited to
any and all reports, photographs, or videotapes.  In response, Defendant objected that
impeachment is not a proper form of discovery, the RPD violates qualified
attorney work product doctrine, and disclosure for surveillance film need not
take effect until the defense is given an opportunity to depose Plaintiff fully
as to his injuries, their effect, and his present disabilities.  Plaintiff argues that there is good cause for
the production because the footage is discoverable and not protected by the
work product doctrine, the RPD seeks relevant information that is reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and the information
is necessary to protect against surprise and prepare examination for the person
who took the films.  Plaintiff argues
that he seeks only raw, unedited surveillance footage, without direction,
commentary, or defense counsel’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research. 
            Attorney work product doctrine
includes, “A writing that reflects an attorney's impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under any
circumstances.”  (CCP § 2018.030(a).)  Work product of an attorney is not
discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly
prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or
defense or will result in an injustice. 
(CCP § 2018.030(b).)  
            Plaintiff argues that the videos
taken by defense investigator are not attorney work product as the
videos/pictures were taken by a third-party investigator. Moreover, Defendant
intends to use the videos/pictures at trial.[1]  Plaintiff argues that he is not seeking
derivative or interpretive work by defense counsel, but instead the raw
videos/pictures themselves.  Plaintiff
also argues that the fact that the evidence may be used for impeachment
purposes does not shield it from disclosure. 
Plaintiff argues that so long as the information sought is discoverable
and relevant, it should be produced—whether it is used for impeachment purposes
or to protect against surprise.  Finally,
Plaintiff argues that if the documents are not produced, then the surveillance
and report should be excluded at trial so that Plaintiff is not unfairly
prejudiced.  
In opposition, Defendant argues that he
objects to producing the video before Plaintiff’s deposition based on the
qualified work product doctrine based on the fact that the video will be used
for impeachment purposes.  Defendant
argues that he should be given the opportunity to depose Plaintiff fully
regarding his injuries and present disabilities first and that to allow
otherwise would eliminate any impeachment value that might be derived from the
video.  Defendant requests that the Court
issue an order denying this motion or at least order that the surveillance
video be produced after Defendant has deposed Plaintiff.  (See e.g., Ward v.
CSX Transp., Inc. (E.D.N.C. 1995) 161 F.R.D. 38, 41.)[2]
Defendant relies
in part on Suezaki v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166, 177–179, arguing that surveillance falls squarely
under the qualified privilege.  The
Suezaki court stated: 
[Defendants] urge that, even if the [investigator] films
are not privileged for other reasons, they are privileged solely because they are the
“work product” of their attorney. In this connection they point out that
without question their attorney had the films taken solely as part of his trial
preparation, and that they were intended to be confidential. They urge
that undoubtedly the films were the result of the work product of the attorney,
which is correct, and contend that for that reason alone they are privileged as
a matter of law, which is incorrect. 
In the Greyhound case (pp.
399-401) it was made abundantly clear that simply because the subject matter
sought to be discovered is the “work product” of the attorney it is not
privileged. It was there pointed out that if the subject matter involved
is the work product of the attorney that is a factor that the trial court
should consider, in its discretion, together with other relevant factors, in
determining whether to deny or to grant discovery in whole or in part.[] But it also
was pointed out that “work product” of the attorney is not absolutely
privileged. In this connection, it was expressly held in Greyhound (p. 401) that, insofar as Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 [67 S.Ct. 385, 91 L.Ed.
451], held to the contrary under federal law, it was not the law of California.
This distinction between considering “work product” as privileged, and
considering it as a factor in determining whether to grant or deny discovery is
not one of words only. Were “work product” to be deemed a rule of privilege in
California, then whenever the fact of “work product” was found to exist, the
court would be compelled to deny discovery as a matter of law. But under the
California rule, the trial court may consider the facts on which a claim of
“work product” is predicated, and exercise the discretion granted by the
provisions of the discovery statutes in order to prevent abuse and to reach a
determination consistent with equity and justice. This simply means that
in California the fact that the material sought to be discovered is the “work
product” of the attorney is one factor to be used by the trial court in the
exercise of its discretion in determining whether or not discovery should be
granted. It does not
mean that, simply because the material involved is the “work product” of the
attorney, it can or should deny discovery. Something more must exist. The trial court
must consider
all the relevant factors involved and then determine whether, under all the
circumstances, discovery would or would not be fair and equitable. This
is made quite clear even in the case of Hickman v. Taylor,
relied upon so strongly by defendants. They interpret that case to mean that
all “work product” is nondiscoverable. The case did not so hold. It limited its
rule of nondiscoverability to those portions of the attorney's files containing
material disclosing the mental processes of the attorney formed while he was
interviewing witnesses, and stressed the fact that the discovery there sought
would be tantamount to compelling the attorney to become a witness. Such
matters should not be discoverable under the California rule. But there is
nothing in Hickman v. Taylor that holds or implies that a film
such as the one here involved would not be discoverable under the federal
rules. In fact, the inference is to the contrary.
(Suezaki
v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 58 Cal.2d
166, 177–179 [stating “While it would
appear that inspection of the films should be permitted, the discretion granted
by the statute is the discretion of the trial court, not of this court.”]
[footnote omitted].)  
            Here,
the surveillance videos/photographs are only subject to a qualified, but not
absolute, privilege under the work product doctrine.  As represented by defense counsel, the investigative
surveillance was conducted under counsel’s direction for the purpose of
measuring Plaintiff’s credibility and to capture potential impeachment material
by way of videotaping Plaintiff engaging in an unexpected activity or an
exaggeration of claimed injuries.  (Opp.
at p.3.)  While the videos/photographs
themselves might not be privileged, the videos would thus be subject to a
qualified protection.
The
Court believes that the balancing set forth in Ward v. CSX sets forth
the use of the appropriate exercise of discretion contemplated in Suezaki.
The Court finds that delaying disclosure of the sub rosa surveillance
videos/photographs until after Plaintiff’s deposition is prudent and an
appropriate balance between the protection of work product and the production
of all relevant evidence prior to trial. 
This balances the defense’s considerations in protection of work product
with Plaintiff’s request to review the surveillance for trial purposes. There
is no need for Plaintiff to obtain the video now as Plaintiff was apparently
present during the filming of the events at issue.  The only reason Plaintiff would seek the use
of the video prior to his deposition is to evaluate how to fashion his
deposition responses to the video.  At
this time, the Court will deny without prejudice the motion to compel further
responses to RPD No. 8, subject to the completion of the deposition.  The Court believes that it will be
appropriate to produce the material after the deposition so that they can be
analyzed and identified properly under the Rules of Court for the trial. 
            No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER  
Plaintiff Steven
Alfaro’s motion to compel further responses to RPD No. 8 is denied without
prejudice, subject to the completion of the Plaintiff’s deposition as stated
more fully in this written order.   
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this order. 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
                                             
DATED:   January
12, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the
Superior Court  


