 Case Number:  23BBCV01804    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ramon
  enrique marquez mendez, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
walgreen co.., et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01804
    
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for trial-setting preference  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Ramon Enriquez Marguez Mendez
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on February 2, 2022, Plaintiff was shopping inside Defendants
Walgreen Co., Walgreen National Corporation, Walgreen Boot Alliance, Inc., and Walgreens
Store #9491’s business at a Walgreens store in North Hollywood.  He alleges that there were multiple stacked
plastic crates filled with merchandise that fell and struck Plaintiff, injuring
his eye and causing orthopedic injuries. 
Plaintiff alleges that the Walgreens store’s premises was managed by
Defendant Stephanie Martinez.  
The complaint, filed August 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) premises
liability.   
On August 30, 2023, the dismissal without
prejudice of the complaint filed against Defendants Walgreen National
Corporation and Walgreen Boot Alliance Inc., only was entered.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36 and CRC Rule 3.1335.  Plaintiff requests that the trial be scheduled
no later than 120 days of this motion.  
            On October 16, 2023, Defendants Walgreen
Co. and Stephanie Martinez filed an opposition brief.  
On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
declaration in support of the motion.   
LEGAL STANDARD 
According to CCP § 36(a), a party to a
civil action who is over the age of 70 must be given preference if the party
has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  To make the
findings required by CCP § 36(a), evidence must be provided with the motion for
preference establishing Plaintiff’s age and the relevant conditions of his
health warranting a preference.  Pursuant
to CCP § 36.5, an attorney affidavit offered in support of a motion for preference
may be based on information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and
prognosis of a party.  If a motion for
preference based on a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial
not more than 120 days from the date the motion is granted.  (CCP § 36(f).) 
Pursuant to CCP § 36(e), in its
discretion, the court may grant a motion for preference that is supported by a
showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting preference.  
Finally, CCP § 36(c)(1) requires that all
essential parties be served with process or have appeared in the action in
order to grant a motion for preference. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves for trial preference based
on his age and current medical condition. 

Plaintiff is currently 83 years old and
was born on December 20, 1940.  (Pl.’s
Decl., ¶2.) Thus, he is over the age of 70. 
He states that he has several medical conditions in addition to the loss
of vision to his left eye and orthopedic injuries as a result of the subject
incident.  (Id.)  Plaintiff states that he has hypertension,
hyperlipidemia, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and osteopenia.  (Id., ¶3.)  He states that he is currently taking Aspirin/Tylenol, Alendronate Sodium, Amlodipine Besylate, Atorvastatin
Calcium, Diclofenac Sodium, Famotidine, Tamsulosin HCL, Terazosin HCL,
amlodipine Besylate, and Duloxetine HCL. 
(Id., ¶4.)  He states that
in 2023, he was diagnosed with invasive squamous cell carcinoma in his right
lateral thigh and basal cell carcinoma in right cheek based on a shave biopsy.  (Id., ¶5.)  He states that he also has a surgical history
of right inquinal hernia repair, umbilical hernia repair, cholecystectomy, and
ORIF clavical fracture. (Id., ¶6.) 
He states that on February 2, 2022, the subject incident caused him to
sustain complete blindness to his left eye and that, as a result of the
injuries, he had to go through a total hip arthroplasty on November 1, 2022 at
LA Bone and Joint Institute.  (Id.,
¶7.)  Plaintiff states that his health
condition is such that his ability to prosecute this action may be compromised
if trial is not commenced on the earliest possible date.  (Id., ¶8.)  He provides his medical records from LA Bone
and Joint Institute and good Dermatology listing his diagnoses.  (Id., ¶8, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff’s counsel, Alexis Djivre,
provides her declaration wherein she states essentially the same information as
Plaintiff in his declaration.  (See Djivre
Decl. generally.)  
The LA Bone and Joint Institute records
(November 1, 2022) indicate that Plaintiff was “doing well overall. Pain is
none” and that the doctor was “Pleased with outcome.”  There does not appear to be any current complications
that would inhibit Plaintiff from attending trial nor any prognosis that
Plaintiff’s health would warrant granting a preference.  (Pl.’s Decl., Ex. 1 [LA Bone and Joint
Institute Records].)  
In opposition, Defendants argue that trial
preference is not automatic based solely on age.  They also argue that Plaintiff’s motion
papers fail to show that his health is such that he would be prejudiced if
trail were not scheduled within 6 months. 
Defendants argue that while Plaintiff provides his list of ailments, he
has not shown how his hip replacement, his squamous cell carcinoma, etc. would
prevent him from participating in the trial on a later date.  
With the reply papers, Plaintiff provides
the supplemental declaration of Counsel Djivre. 
Counsel states that Plaintiff is now 83 years old and has several
medical conditions that affect his longevity, as well as loss of his left eye
and orthopedic injuries resulting in a hip replacement due to the subject
incident, which give him a significant interest in the action.  (Djivre Suppl. Decl., ¶¶2, 5, 7, 9.)  Counsel relates the same medical conditions
as in Plaintiff’s prior declaration and that Plaintiff was also diagnosed with
melanoma in June 2023.  (Id.,
¶10.)  Counsel also states that since the
filing of the motion, Plaintiff has experienced further deterioration of his
health, including memory loss depression, physical pain, and emotional
suffering.  (Id., ¶¶11-12.)  On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s primary care
physician, Dr. Blanca Andres, examined Plaintiff and submitted a letter stating
that that he suffers from various health challenges, chronic conditions that
require regular monitoring and appointments, that his loss of vision has
significantly impacted his quality of life such that he needs assistance, he
has been suffering depression, and that given the complexity and interrelation
of the health challenges with his memory loss, Dr. Andres strongly recommends
“appropriate support” be provided to ensure his well-being and continued
care.  (Id., ¶13, Ex. 2 [Dr. Andres’
Letter].)  Counsel attests that since
representing Plaintiff, she has noticed a decline to his memory and
health.  (Id., ¶14.)  
Plaintiff has established that he is over
the age of 70 years old and that he has a substantial interest in the action as
a whole, as he is the named Plaintiff in this action and the individual who
suffered the purported injuries.  Whether
Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is necessary may be shown by way
of an attorney affidavit based on information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of a party. 
Here, Plaintiff has provided his own declaration, counsel has provided
two declarations, and Plaintiff has provided a letter from his doctor.  The declarations, medical records, and the
letter by the doctor do not show whether Plaintiff’s health is declining to a
state where he where his physical health is such that his interests in this
litigation would be affected.  It is also
unknown at what stage his diagnosed melanoma is at.  However, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
made a sufficient showing that he is an individual of advanced age with
numerous health issues and that he has recently been suffering memory loss,
which may be important for future depositions and testifying at trial.  Thus, considering the totality of the facts
and evidence presented by Plaintiff, the Court grants the motion for a trial
preference.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is granted. 
The Court sets the trial for May 13, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.  If the parties have objections to this trial
date, they should attend the hearing to discuss a mutually agreeable trial
date.    
The Court notes that a motion to compel
further responses is reserved for February 9, 2024, two motions to compel
further responses are reserved for March 15, 2024, and two motions for summary
judgment have been reserved for April 12, 2024 and April 19, 2024.  The parties should meet and confer and work
together to resolve discovery matters in a timely fashion. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 