 Case Number:  23BBCV02127    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
sergio corona,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
sevan safyani,   
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case
  No.: 23BBCV02127
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff Sergio
Corona (“Plaintiff”) alleges on July 2, 2023, he was standing at the sidewalk
in front of 8012 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605.  Immediately before the collision, Defendant
Sevan Safyani (“Defendant”) was driving his vehicle southbound on Laurel Canyon
Boulevard.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant veered onto the opposite lanes of northbound traffic and crashed into
the sidewalk and directly into Plaintiff, injuring Plaintiff.  At all times, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant was in an intoxicated state and knew that probably serious injury
would result to other motorists and/or pedestrians by driving a vehicle while
under the influence.  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant exercised despicable conduct and conscious disregard for the
safety of others and Plaintiff by knowingly driving a vehicle in an intoxicated
condition on public streets.  
            The
complaint, filed September 14, 2023, alleges a single cause of action for
negligence. 
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On
October 31, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to strike the allegations for
punitive damages from the initial complaint. 

On December 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.   
On January 8,
2024, Defendant filed an untimely reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to strike the allegations
for punitive damages in paragraph 22 and section 3 of the prayer for relief in
the complaint.  The request for punitive
damages is sought in connection with the sole cause of action for negligence.

A complaint including a request for punitive
damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled to an
award of punitive damages.  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A
claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a
defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and malice" toward plaintiff
are insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an
award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual
allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Defendant argues
that the complaint lacks specific facts supporting a claim for punitive damages
and that the allegations are conclusory. 

In the sole
cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owed Plaintiff
a duty of care to drive the vehicle in a reasonable manner, including looking
for pedestrians.  (Compl., ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached his
duty by failing to exercise ordinary care while driving, such that he caused
Plaintiff to be struck by the vehicle.  (Id.,
¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
operated his vehicle in a reckless and dangerous manner, failed to avoid a
collision, failed to observe and exercise reasonable and due care and
precaution and to maintain proper and adequate control of the motor vehicle, failed
to keep a proper lookout for others, failed to obey traffic laws, and was
negligent in other respects.  (Id.,
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
was in an intoxicated state, knew that probable serious injury would result to
other motorists/pedestrians by driving a vehicle while under the influence, and
willfully exercise despicable conduct.  (Id.,
¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
began consuming drugs and alcohol on July 2, 2023 to the point of intoxication,
which sharply impaired his physical and mental state.  (Id., ¶18.)  He alleges that defendant was aware from the
outset of the probable consequences of such conduct and willfully and
deliberately failed to avoid the consequences and acted with conscious
disregard.  (Id., ¶19.) 
Taylor v. Superior
Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 is instructive with respect to this set of facts.  In Taylor,
the Supreme Court fell short of holding that punitive damages are always
appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated, finding that “the act
of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.”  (Id. at p. 892.)  In the
subsequent decision of Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, the Supreme Court held that driving while
intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  Specifically, the Court stated that “the risk
created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive
a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an
intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per
hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in
June.  The risk of injury to others from
ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not
necessarily probable.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Based on the rules set forth in both Taylor and Dawes, the Court finds that the allegations in the complaint
regarding Defendant’s intoxication are insufficient to support the imposition
of punitive damages.  The description of Defendant’s
conduct can be applicable to almost any situation wherein a person consumes
alcohol and then decides to drive.  The
fact that the complaint alleges that Defendant consumed excessive amount of
alcohol prior to driving does not necessarily show that he acted maliciously or
oppressively; and the allegations regarding malice, oppression, despicable
conduct, and/or conscious disregard are conclusory as currently alleged in the complaint.  As discussed in Taylor and Dawes, specific
factual circumstances must be alleged which show that the risk of injury was
probable, such as weaving through lanes of traffic, a previous conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol,
or driving while simultaneously drinking alcohol.  The fact that an accident occurred and Defendant
was found to be intoxicated, without more, has the character of ordinary
negligent driving and does not show aggravating circumstances warranting
punitive damages. 
The motion to strike punitive damages from
the complaint is granted with leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Sevan Safyani’s motion to
strike the allegations for punitive damages in the complaint is granted with 20
days leave to amend.   
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
            Defendant shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
DATED:
January 12, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court  