 Case Number:  23BBCV02390    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
hunter
  perry,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
warner
  bros. entertainment, inc., et al.,
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02390
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to seal exhibit J to plaintiff’s
  complaint



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiffs Hunter Perry (through his
mother Jessica Perry), Jessica Perry, and Devin Perry (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against Defendants Warner Bros.
Entertainment, Inc. (“WBEI”) and Warner Bros. Discovery Global Consumer
Products, Inc. (“WBCPI”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiffs allege that Hunter Perry’s eye was
impaled by Defendants’ defective Harry Potter wand replica with light-up and
pen functionality when his older brother waved the wand like the children do in
the Harry Potter movies and books.  Plaintiffs
allege that the sharp, pointed shaft (the larger writing portion of the pen)
ejected from the hilt/cap, flew across the room, and pierced Hunter Perry’s
left eye, rupturing his eyeball and causing his inner eye fluid to spill out
and run down his cheek.  
WBEI is alleged to be the entertainment
company, which produces films through its studio division, the Warner Bros.
Pictures Group.  WBCPI is alleged to be a
company created by Warner Bros. to license merchandising rights to WBEI’s
films.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
hold the merchandising rights to the film version of the Harry Potter series
and that they authorized The Noble Collection, Inc. (“TNCI”) and its affiliates
to design, produce, distribute, and sell products related to the films.  
The complaint, filed on October 13, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach of warranty; and (3)
strict product liability.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On December 8, 2023, “specially appearing”
WBEI filed a motion to seal Exhibit J to Plaintiff’s complaint.    
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
notice of non-opposition to the motion to seal. 

LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” 
(CRC Rule 2.550(c).)  “A record must not be filed under seal without a court order. The court
must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement
or stipulation of the parties.”  (CRC
Rule 2.551(a).)  
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d), “The court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record;
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.
DISCUSSION

            WBEI
moves to seal Exhibit J of the complaint, arguing that it is currently redacted
only to remove financial information but that the entirety of the document represents
proprietary trade secrets arising out of its relationship with WBEI and its
licensee identified through the Product License Agreement dated July 26,
2017.  WBEI states that TNCI disclosed
the agreement to Plaintiff during pre-trial discovery in another case currently
pending in the Virginia Superior Court. 
(Evan Dotta Decl., ¶6.)  
            Plaintiffs
do not oppose the substantive merits of the motion, but only argue that there
are some inaccurate statements made by WBEI in its motion about Plaintiffs’
allegations in the complaint.  The Court
declines to adjudicate the veracity of the complaint’s allegations at this
time.  
            WBEI
argues that the agreement should be filed under seal to protect against public
disclosure to protect its interests.  It
states that it recognizes the public’s interest in the judicial system, but
that there are overriding interests to protect its intellectual property and
business relationships.  It also argues
that this is a products liability and negligence case, such that the general
interest in agreements in the entertainment industry need not be disclosed and
that its licensing agreements with private third parties should be
confidential.  Otherwise, WBEI claims
that it will suffer irreparable harm with respect to its intellectual property,
long-standing relationship with its licensee and product manufacturer, and its
direct competitors.  
            Given
that there is no dispute at this point, the Court will allow the sealing of the
document.          
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant
Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc.’s motion to seal is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to refile the initial
complaint with the redacted Exhibit J, which will be deemed the operative
complaint.  The complaint currently on
file with the unredacted Exhibit J will be withdrawn at that time.   
            Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
DATED:  January 12, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  