  Case Number:  20PDUD00512    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Dana Ingram, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
Irene Estrada, and Does 1
  through 10,
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 20PDUD00512
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:
motion to unseal records



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Dana Ingram commenced this
unlawful detainer action on February 19, 2020 against Defendant Irene
Estrada.  The property at issue is
located at 1031 Amherst Drive, Burbank, CA 91504.  Plaintiff alleges she is the owner of the
property.  She alleges that on August 1,
2019, Defendant rented the residential property pursuant to a written
lease.  She alleges she served a 3-day
notice to pay rent or quit on Defendant and at that time, the rent due was
$16,200.  She seeks possession of the
property, past due rent of $61,200, and damages of daily rent.  
B.    
Relevant Background 
The matter came for a non-jury trial.  On May 4, 2022, the Court issues is Decision
of the Court, finding that Plaintiff was entitled to rent and damages in the
amount of $66,420.  
On May 19, 2022, the Court entered the
Judgment finding that: (1) Plaintiff was awarded damages from Defendant in the
amount of $66,420; and (2) Plaintiff shall recover costs of suit in the amount
of $921.14 (following the filing of a memorandum of costs) and attorney’s fees
to be determined by motion.  The Notice
of Entry of Judgment was filed with the Court and served on June 10, 2022. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar
The Court notes that Plaintiff previously
filed a motion to unseal records on April 28, 2023.  The first motion came for hearing on
September 29, 2023 and the Court heard oral argument and continued the hearing
to October 27, 2023, ordering the parties to submit a written payment plan
showing Defendant’s proposed monthly payment to satisfy the judgment.  The first motion came for hearing on October
27, 2023, but no parties appeared at the hearing and no submissions were made
online to the Court’s tentative ruling, such that the Court placed the motion
off-calendar.  
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second
motion to unseal the court records in their entirety.  The Court is not in receipt of an opposition
brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP §
1161.2(a)(2) states that parties in a limited action may stipulate to the
sealing of court records.  
California
Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(h) states: 
(h)
Motion, application, or petition to unseal records
(1) A sealed record must not be unsealed except on order of the court.
(2) A party or member of the public may move, apply, or petition, or the
court on its own motion may move, to unseal a record. Notice of any motion,
application, or petition to unseal must be filed and served on all parties in
the case. The motion, application, or petition and any opposition, reply, and
supporting documents must be filed in a public redacted version and a sealed
complete version if necessary to comply with (c).
(3) If the court proposes to order a record unsealed on its own motion, the
court must give notice to the parties stating the reason for unsealing the
record. Unless otherwise ordered by the court, any party may serve and file an
opposition within 10 days after the notice is provided and any other party may
file a response within 5 days after the filing of an opposition.
(4) In determining whether to unseal a record, the court must consider the
matters addressed in rule 2.550(c)-(e).
(5) The order unsealing a record must state whether the record is unsealed
entirely or in part. If the court's order unseals only part of the record or
unseals the record only as to certain persons, the order must specify the
particular records that are unsealed, the particular persons who may have
access to the record, or both. If, in addition to the records in the envelope,
container, or secure electronic file, the court has previously ordered the
sealing order, the register of actions, or any other court records relating to
the case to be sealed, the unsealing order must state whether these additional
records are unsealed.
(CRC Rule
2.551(h).)  
            CRC Rule 2.550(c) to (e) states:
(c)
Court records presumed to be open
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.
(d) Express factual findings required to seal records
The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly
finds facts that establish:
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.
(e)
Content and scope of the order
(1) An order sealing the record must:
(A) Specifically state the facts that support the findings; and
(B) Direct the sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably
practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material
that needs to be placed under seal. All other portions of each document or page
must be included in the public file.
(2) Consistent with Code of Civil Procedure sections 639 and 645.1, if the
records that a party is requesting be placed under seal are voluminous, the
court may appoint a referee and fix and allocate the referee's fees among the
parties.
(CRC Rule
2.550(c)-(e).)  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves for an order
unsealing the court records in this action. 
Plaintiff argues that this case started as an unlawful detainer action,
but then proceeded as an ordinary civil action for damages once Defendant gave
up possession of the property.  Plaintiff
states that no payment has been made by Plaintiff and Plaintiff has been unable
to establish a payment plan with Defendant. 
Plaintiff argues that because the action was converted to an ordinary civil
case, the presumption of openness of court records should apply and the records
unsealed.  
            The Court notes that on February 4,
2021, this action was reclassified as a limited civil unlawful detainer case to
a case of general jurisdiction. 
According to the Court’s electronic records, the case is deemed confidential.  
            CRC Rule 2.550(c) provides the presumption
that court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required
by law.  Here, this action was an
ordinary limited, unlawful detainer case and then was converted into a general
civil action.  There are no discernable
reasons why the case (other than initially being limited) was subject to
sealing and confidentiality.  The Court
notes there are no overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record, there are no overriding interests that support sealing
the record, there would be no prejudice if the records were unsealed, the
current confidential nature of the records is not narrowly tailored as it
covers the entirety of the records, and no restrictive measures were used at
the time of sealing.  In addition, there
is no opposition to the motion.  
            In ruling on the first motion to
unseal records, the Court previously ordered the parties to submit a written
payment plan showing Defendant’s proposed monthly payments to satisfy the
judgment.  The Court is not in receipt of
a written payment plan from the parties. 
The parties are ordered to attend the hearing so that the Court may
inquire if a plan is forthcoming. 
            However, in light of the lack of
filing of the payment plan, the Court is inclined to grant the motion to
unseal.  The unsealing of the records
shall be as to the entirety of the court’s records in this action.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            The Court is
inclined to grant Plaintiff’s motion to unseal the entirety of the court
records.  The Court orders the parties to
attend the hearing so that it may inquire whether the parties have agreed to a
payment plan for Defendant.  
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
             
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                                     ______________________
                                                                                          John J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court  