 Case Number:  22STCV31797    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Jesus
  Siordia, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
united
  aeronautical corporation, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV31797
Related/Consolidated
  Case: 23BBCV01790 (Westchester Action)
Related
  Case: 23BBCV01696 (Zurich Action)
 
  Hearing Date: January 12, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Jesus Siordia, Irene Fombona,
James Siordia, Deisi Martinez, Fernando Avilez, Angela Savanna Gonzalez (a
minor, by and through her guardian ad litem Deisi Martinez) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege that on May 27, 2021, an explosion occurred at a facility
operated by National Technical Systems, Inc. (“NTS”), which is located in
Fullerton.  They allege that the
explosion caused the death of NTS employee Jesse Siordia (“Decedent”).  They allege Decedent was the son of Jesus
Siordia and Irene Fombona; the brother of James Siordia and Deisi Martinez; and
the uncle to Angela Savanna Gonzalez and Fernando Avilez.  Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to
wrongful death damages and right of survivorship damages. 
Plaintiffs allege that the location was
owned by Defendants ERSLAND Training Center Corporation (“ERSLAND”) and ETCR,
Inc. (“ETCR”).  On May 27, 2021, NTS was
providing its facility to Defendant United Aeronautical Corporation (“UAC”),
which was testing a C-130 Modular Airborne Fire Fighting System (“MAFFS
Part”).  Plaintiffs allege that UAC was
in charge of testing the MAFFS Part, while NTS supplied the power and testing
chamber, and passively monitored the test for radio emissions.  Defendants GXAerospace, Inc., Parker Hannifin
Corporation, Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc., and Norton Sales, Inc.
were all manufacturers and/or distributors of various component parts that
comprised the MAFFS part.  Defendant
Mario Nino is alleged to be the contractor for UAC employed by Defendant Triad
Systems International who was present at the explosion and in charge of setting
up the testing.  
The complaint, filed on September 28,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) strict products
liability; (3) strict liability for ultrahazardous activities; (4) breach of
warranties; (5) breach of contract; (6) right of survivorship; and (7) punitive
damages. 
On January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint naming Doe 1 as JCC California Properties, LLC (“JCC
CP”).   
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendant ETCR, Inc. 
On May 22, 2023, by Plaintiff’s oral
request, Defendant ERSLAND Training Center Corporation was dismissed without
prejudice. 
On October 17, 2023, the Court signed the
parties’ Stipulation and Order wherein, in part, Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss the
punitive damages claims against Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc.
without prejudice and dismiss the claims of Plaintiffs Deisi Martinez and James
Siordia for a waiver of costs. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On December 23,
2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant GXAerospace, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) express
indemnity; (3) implied indemnity; (4) contribution; and (5) declaratory relief.

On December 28, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant UAC filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-30 for:
(1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3) equitable
apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and (6)
express indemnity. 
On January 17, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Norton Sales, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against
Roes 1-30 for: (1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3)
equitable apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and
(6) express indemnity. 
On January 31, 2023,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Tri-Tech Systems, Inc. dba Triad Systems
International (“Triad”) and Mario Nino (“Nino”) filed a cross-complaint against
UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) implied indemnity; (3) express indemnity;
(4) declaratory relief; and (5) contribution.
On April 3, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant JCC California Properties, LLC field a
cross-complaint against Roes 1-25 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2)
apportionment; (3) contribution; and (4) declaratory relief: equitable
apportionment contribution and indemnification. 

On November 27, 2023, Triad System
International and Mario Nino filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1-50 for: (1)
equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; (3) contribution; (4)
apportionment; and (5) express indemnity. 
C.    
Related Cases
On July 26, 2023, Zurich American
Insurance Company (“Zurich”) and Interstate Fire & Casualty Company
(“Interstate”) filed a complaint in Case No. 23BBCV01696 against UAC,
GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc.,
Norton Sales, Inc., and Triad for: (1) negligence; (2) strict products
liability; and (3) strict liability for ultrahazardous activities.  Zurich/Interstate allege that they insured
James Campbell Company LLC, the owner of the building.  On September 13, 2023, Zurich and Interstate
dismissed without prejudice the 2nd and 3rd causes of
action against UAC only.  
On August 4, 2023, Westchester Surplus
Lines Insurance Company (“Westchester”) filed a complaint in Case No.
23BBCV01790 against UAC, GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Motion &
Flow Control Products, Inc., Norton Sales, Inc., Triad, and Nino for: (1)
negligence; (2) strict products liability; (3) strict liability for
ultrahazardous activities; (4) breach of warranties; and (5) breach of
contract.  Westchester alleges that NTS
was insured by Westchester.  On September
14, 2023, Westchester dismissed without prejudice the 4th and 5th
causes of action as to Triad and Nino only. 
On September 29, 2023, Triad and Nino
filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-50 in the 23BBCV01790 case for: (1)
equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; (3) contribution; and (4)
apportionment. 
On September 13, 2023, the Westchester and
Zurich/Interstate actions were related to this action.  This action (22STCV31797) is the lead case.
On October 27, 2023, the Court
consolidated the Westchester case with this action. 
D.   
Complaint-in-Intervention
On October 12, 2023,
Plaintiff-in-Intervention NTS Technical Systems, Inc. (“NTS”) filed a
complaint-in-intervention against UAC, GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation
(“Parker”), Motion and Flow Control Products, Inc. (“M&F”), Norton Sales,
Inc., Triad, and Nino for: (1) negligence; and (2) strict products
liability.  
E.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On November 6, 2023, UAC filed a demurrer
to the complaint-in-intervention.  
On December 29, 2023, NTS filed an opposition
brief. 
On January 5, 2024, UAC filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            UAC demurs to the 2nd
cause of action for strict products liability, arguing that it fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against UAC because the
incident, as alleged in the complaint, did not involve a “product” or a
“consumer,” nor was there a commercial sale or market placement of the item
referenced in the complaint. 
“[A] manufacturer
is strictly liable in tort when an article he places on the market, knowing
that it is to be used without inspection for defects, proves to have a defect
that causes injury to a human being. [Citation.] The elements of this cause of action are as
follows: (1) the product is placed on the market; (2) there is knowledge that
it will be used without inspection for defect; (3) the product proves to be
defective; and (4) the defect causes injury to a human.” (Scott v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 404, 415 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)  
            In the general allegations, NTS
alleges that UAC was testing a Mobile Airborne Firefighting System (“MAFFS”) unit.  (Complaint-in-Intervention, ¶17.)  NTS alleges that it supplied power and the
testing chamber for UAC’s testing of the MAFFS and passively monitored the
test.  (Id., ¶18.)  NTS alleges that GX, Parker, Motion, and
Norton each manufactured and/or distributed component parts of the MAFFS and/or
provided test design and engineering recommendations to UAC and/or participated
in the assembly of the MAFFS components being tested on the date of the
accident.  (Id., ¶19.)  NTS alleges that a component part of the MAFFS
failed during the test while the MAFFS was highly pressured, which ultimately
caused the explosion and ensuing fire.  (Id.,
¶20.)  In the 2nd cause of
action, NTS alleges that UAC, GX, Parker, Motion, and Norton designed,
manufactured, distributed, and sold the MAFFS and/or its component parts.  (Id., ¶29.)  NTS alleges that at the time the MAFFS and/or
its component parts were being tested, inherent defects existed that rendered
it unreasonably dangerous.  (Id.,
¶30.)  NTS alleges that the unreasonably
dangerous inherent defects in the MAFFS and/or its parts included:
manufacturing/design defects, failure to utilize feasible alternative designs
that were safer and not inherently defective, lack of effective warnings and/or
emergency procedures to provide instruction in the event of failure; failure to
warn or advise of prior failures/malfunctions and identified defects in the
MAFFS and parts, absence of an adequate quality control system, and the MAFFS and/or its component parts were
otherwise defective.  (Id.,
¶31.)  NTS alleges that UAC, GX, Parker,
Motion, and Norton knew or should have known that the MAFFS/parts would be used
without inspection for defects.  (Id.,
¶32.)  It alleges that the unreasonably
inherent defects and defective design of the MAFFS/parts was a substantial
factor in causing the explosion and resultant damage.  (Id., ¶33.)  
            UAC argues that the
Complaint-in-Intervention does not allege that the MAFFS was commercially sold
or placed in the market.  It argues that
the MAFFS was never sold, marketed, or placed into the stream of commerce by
UAC—rather the MAFFS (as alleged in the Complaint-in-Intervention) was being
tested and inspected for defects to ensure compliance. 
            In opposition, NTS argues that the
crux of a strict liability cause of action is that there was a defect in the
defendant’s product that caused the plaintiff’s injury.  NTS relies on Rawling v. D.M. Oliver, Inc.
(1979) 97 Cal.App.3d 890, arguing that no commercial sale or consumer
transaction is necessary to impose strict liability.  Rawling considered a machine that was
claimed to be a special piece of equipment fabricated in 1969, which was not
mass-produced and sold to the general public. 
(Rawling, supra, 97 Cal.App.3d at 897.)  The Court of Appeal found that even though it
was not a mass-produced product or a typical product produced by defendant (or
defendant’s predecessor), the manufacturer could still be held strictly liable
for defects within the product.  
            Here, the difference with Rawling
is that the MAFFS is not alleged to be advertised, marketed, sold, or placed in
the stream of commerce at all.  Rather,
it appears to have been a prototype that was being designed and tested at the
facility when the explosion incident occurred. 
The Complaint-in-Intervention alleges that the MAFFS was being tested,
which implies that the parties were not sure whether the MAFFS would work as it
was intended to work, what warnings were required to be given, if it was in
compliance with certain requirements, etc. 
Based on the allegations, it can be implied that the MAFFS was not a
finished product that was ready to be marketed or sold (or used for its
intended purpose) at the time it was being tested.  Further, there are no allegations that NTS
purchased the MAFFS part or that it was the intended recipient of the MAFFS;
rather, NTS alleges that it provided the testing chamber/space for UAC to test
whether the MAFFS part worked.[1]
            UAC also argues that the MAFFS was
not a “product” for the purposes of strict liability.  “The basis of strict
liability is the furnishing of defective goods.”  (Brooks v. Eugene Burger
Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1624.)  A products liability claimant must meet the
condition precedent to successfully maintain this claim: they “must show that
the object or instrumentality claimed to be defective was in fact a ‘product’
as defined or contemplated by the Restatement of Torts, legislation or case
law. Whether or not a product was defectively designed or manufactured is a
factual issue to be determined by the trier of fact. However, whether or not
the subject object or instrumentality is a ‘product’ is a question of law for
the trial court…” (Id. at 1626.) “A product is
a physical article which results from a manufacturing process and is ultimately
delivered to a consumer. A defect in the article even if initially latent is
ultimately objectively measurable.”  (Pierson v. Sharp Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 340, 345 [finding that the provision of a patient room in a medical
facility is a service and not a product].) 
As discussed above, while the MAFFS may have been in the process of
becoming a product for the ultimate delivery to a consumer, the MAFFS (as
alleged) was still in the testing phase and does not appear to have been
marketed for the sale to the general public or a specific consumer.
             Based on the allegations of the
Complaint-in-Intervention, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
is sustained.  As this is NTS’s first
attempt at the pleading, the Court will allow leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant-in-Intervention United
Aeronautical Corporation’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action in
the complaint-in-intervention is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
Demurring party shall provide notice of
this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  


