 Case Number:  20STCV18606    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
RYAN LARSON, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
LYFT, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 20STCV18606
  
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for terminating sanctions or in
  the alternative evidentiary and monetary sanctions against plaintiffs
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Ryan Larson and Matthew
Hinerfeld (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on December 19, 2019, Plaintiffs used
Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s (“Lyft”) app to request transportation to Hinerfeld’s
work Christmas party.  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant Ian Woeber (“Woeber”) arrived in a Toyota Corolla and, upon
entering the vehicle, they observed a noticeable smoke smell that could not
readily be identified as marijuana. 
Plaintiffs allege that though they were concerned Woeber was drunk, they
relied on Lyft’s zero-tolerance policy for the consumption of drugs and alcohol
while driving.  As Woeber was driving, Plaintiffs
allege that he hit the brakes and slammed into a Lexus Sedan in front of
him.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs allege that
Woeber engaged the child locks on the doors, preventing Plaintiffs from exiting
the vehicle, and he started to drive away from the scene of the collision.  They allege Woeber let them out about 100
feet from the collision site and fled the collision site.  
The third amended complaint (“TAC”), filed
June 2, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence against Lyft and
Woeber; (2) negligence per se against Woeber; (3) negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention against Lyft; (4) common carrier negligence against
Lyft; (5) willful and wanton negligence against Woeber; (6) intentional
misrepresentation by Mr. Hinerfeld against Lyft; (7) negligent misrepresentation
by Mr. Hinerfeld against Lyft; (8) breach of contract against Lyft; and (9) strict
products liability against Lyft.    
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 8, 2023, Woeber filed a motion
for terminating sanctions or, in the alternative, evidentiary and monetary
sanctions against Plaintiffs.  
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
opposition papers.
On January 5, 2024, Woeber  filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
A.    Terminating
Sanctions 
According to CCP § 2023.030(d), the court
may impose terminating sanctions dismissing the action.  (See also CCP § 575.2.)  Misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery, disobeying a
court order to provide discovery, and failing to confer with counsel in a
reasonable and good faith attempt to informally resolve discovery
disputes.  (CCP § 2023.010(d), (g),
(i).)  The Court weighs the following
factors when considering the present motion: (1) plaintiff’s conduct,
indicating whether his/her actions were willful; (2) the detriment to the party
seeking discovery; and (3) the number of formal and informal unsuccessful
attempts to obtain discovery.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th
1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. 
(Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) 
By way of background, Woeber provides the
following relevant procedural history. 
On June 16, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiffs to provide further
responses to Woeber’s RPD Nos. 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, and 26 within 20 days of
notice of the order.  Woeber provided
notice of the Court’s ruling by electronic service on June 22, 2023, such that
he sought responses by July 14, 2023.  Woeber
argues that Plaintiffs failed to comply with the Court’s order by intentionally
withholding material documents that had been requested over a year ago,
including any and all Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter account data maintained
by Plaintiffs referencing or related to their injuries/damages claimed in this
lawsuit.  Woeber argues that he has been
prejudiced by Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with the Court’s order.  In the reply brief, Woeber argues that
Plaintiffs have delayed discovery and their verifications until November 13,
2023, such that sanctions are still warranted. 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they
complied with the Court’s order and provided further responses and responsive
documents on November 8, 2023 (the date the motion was filed), as well as
further amended responses.  Plaintiffs
acknowledge that reviewing the vast volume of social media date, which included
thousands of videos and documents over multiple platforms, proved to be arduous
due to limited staff and counsel’s ongoing trial commitments.  Plaintiffs argue that the delays were
unavoidable and that they maintained an open communication with defense counsel
and ultimately delivered documents.  
While the circumstances of the belated
production of documents is not ideal, documents were eventually produced on
November 8, 2023 and verifications were produced on November 13, 2023.  It also appears that prior to the production
of documents, Plaintiffs’ counsel had informed defense counsel that it was
attempting to comply with the Court’s order such as when Plaintiffs’ counsel
informed defense counsel that they had received all of the social media data
and were reviewing it in July 2023 and that Plaintiffs’ counsel had disclosed
scheduling conflicts (i.e., trials and being out of the office for personal
emergencies).  While this in itself does
not excuse the belated nature of the discovery responses, the Court finds that
imposing terminating sanctions would not be appropriate at this time as efforts
to comply with the discovery order were made and Plaintiffs have now served
responses.  Further, Plaintiffs should
not be punished with the termination of their case for the delays that appear
to have been caused in part by their counsel’s schedule.    
The motion for terminating sanctions is
denied. 
B.    
Evidence
Sanctions 
Evidence sanctions
may be imposed against any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process.  (CCP §§2023.030 (c),
2023.010.)  “'The power to impose
discovery sanctions is a broad discretion subject
to reversal only for arbitrary, capricious, or whimsical action.... Only two
facts are absolutely prerequisite to imposition of the sanction:
(1) there must be a failure to comply ... and (2) the failure must be willful.' " (Miranda
v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 929, quoting Do
It Urself Moving & Storage, Inc. v. Brown, Leifer, Slatkin & Berns (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 27, 36.)  To avoid sanctions, the burden of proving
that a discovery violation was not willful is on the party on whom the
discovery was served. (Cornwall v. Santa
Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252- 253.)  
In the alternative, Woeber seeks evidence
sanctions against Plaintiffs.
For the same reasons discussed above, the
Court declines to impose evidence sanctions against Plaintiffs as responses
were ultimately provided.  However, the
Court will consider the imposition of monetary sanctions.  
C.     Monetary
Sanctions 
CCP § 2023.030(a) states: “The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also
impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged
in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that
assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
            Woeber
requests $2,060 against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record in monetary
sanctions.  Although responses were
eventually provided, there have been significant delays in complying with the
Court’s order and providing the discovery responses by Plaintiffs.  Woeber seeks $2,060 in monetary sanctions,
which accounts for 10 hours of time to prepare the motion at $200/hour, plus
$60 in filing fees.  The Court grants the
request for sanctions in the amount requested. 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Defendant Ian Woeber’s motion for
terminating and/or evidence sanctions is denied.  The Court grants in part the motion for
monetary sanctions.  Plaintiffs and their counsel of record, jointly and
severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,060 to Defendant,
by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant shall provide notice of this order. 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
                                             
DATED:   January
12, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the
Superior Court  