 Case Number:  22BBCV01086    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Edvard aslanyan, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
juan francisco
  lopez perez,
    
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.: 22BBCV01086
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel discovery responses; requests for sanctions
 



 
On October 16,
2023, Plaintiffs Edvard Aslanyan and Ani Aslanyan (“Plaintiffs”) filed 3
motions to compel initial responses from Defendant Juan Francisco Lopez Perez
(“Defendant”) for: (1) Form Interrogatories (“FROG”), set one; (2) Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”), set one; and (3) Request for Production of Documents
(“RPD”), set one.  
On August 30,
2023, Plaintiffs served on Defendant the discovery requests, such that
responses were due by October 2, 2023.  Plaintiffs
attempted to contact Defendant for responses, but did not receive a
response.  As of the filing of the
motions, Plaintiffs state that they have not received responses from Defendant.  
On December 29,
2023, Defendant filed the Declaration of Attorney Gary C. Harvey in Response to
the motions.  Mr. Harvey states that on
the day the motions were filed on October 16, 2023, he was assigned the file
for the case.  (Harvey Decl.,
¶¶2-3.)  He states that on October 20,
2023, his staff began contacting Defendant to respond to the discovery, but he
was unable to make contact then encountered resistance in obtaining
information.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that on December 22, 2023, he was
able to contact Defendant, but Defendant only spoke Spanish and they had to
retain an interpreter to obtain responses to the discovery.  (Id., ¶5.)  He states that Defendant does not have email
such that it was a slow process obtaining documentation and verifications.  (Id.) 
Mr. Harvey states that on December 22, 2023, his office emailed
discovery responses to Plaintiffs’ counsel, but that defense counsel still has
not been able to obtain verifications.  (Id.,
¶6.)  He requests that sanctions be
imposed in a reasonable amount.  
Plaintiffs’ motions to compel
responses to the FROG, SROG, and RPD are granted pursuant to CCP §§ 2030.290
and 2031.300.  While Defendant has
provided responses, defense counsel acknowledges that they are unverified
responses. Defendant is ordered to provide verified responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery
requests within
20 days of notice of this order.  
Plaintiffs request
sanctions against Defendant and his attorney in the amount of $1,110 for each
motion.  The requests are granted in the
total sum of $1,000, plus $180 in filing fees. 
Defendant
and his counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,180 to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel, within
20 days of notice of this order. 
Plaintiffs shall provide
notice of this order.
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court