 Case Number:  EC068183    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
lian
  lian, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
yi yao
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  EC068183
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to be relieved as counsel
 



 
Defense counsel, D. Garth Sullivan
(“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Yi Yao (“Defendant”).  
Counsel filed this instant motion to be
relieved as counsel on December 4, 2023.  Counsel has filed the requisite forms pursuant
to CRC Rule 3.1362.  However, on December
5, 2023, the clerk of the court rejected the MC-053 Proposed Order because
sections 1-9 were not complete.  
According to the declaration of Counsel,
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel because Counsel is not able to locate
Defendant after reasonable efforts have been made, including texting, making
phone calls, and sending emails, such that it appears that Defendant has
disappeared.  (MC-052, §2.)  For these reasons, Counsel seeks to withdraw
from representing Defendant in this action. 

Counsel attempted to serve Defendant via
email.  Counsel states that he has been
unable to confirm Defendant’s address or locate a more current address for his
client after calling Defendant’s last known telephone number(s).  
There are no future hearing dates.  Judgment has already been entered in this
action.  Thus, it appears that only
post-judgment matters are at issue in this action.  
Accordingly, the motion to be relieved as
counsel is granted.  Counsel is ordered
to  electronically lodge a corrected and completed
Order .  Defense counsel’s order was
rejected because a blank order was submitted. 
 The order will become effective
upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Defendant
at Defendant’s last known email address. 

Notice to be provided by Counsel.
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 
 