 Case Number:  BC723965    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
patrick pote,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
handy technologies, inc.,  
 
                        Defendant.
 


 
  Case
  No.:  BC723965
 
  Hearing Date:  January 12, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to intervene



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff
Patrick Pote (“Plaintiff” or “Pote”) works as a house cleaner for Defendant
Handy Technologies, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Handy”).  He alleges he and other service providers
clean and repair clients’ houses for flat rates per job.  He alleges that he was not paid for overtime,
rest breaks, missed meals or rest breaks, expenses incurred like cleaning
supplies or gas, or travel time to and between jobs.  
The complaint
was filed on October 3, 2018.  The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed November 19, 2018, alleges causes of action
for: (1) declaratory relief; and (2) violations of the Private Attorneys
General Act (“PAGA”) (Labor Code §2698 et
seq.). 
In the
declaratory relief cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that there exists an
actual and real controversy between the parties regarding whether the waiver to
bring representative actions under PAGA in the arbitration agreement is enforceable.  (FAC, ¶¶25-26.) 
In the PAGA
claim, Plaintiff alleges that he is an aggrieved employee who brings the claim in
a representative capacity on behalf of current and former service providers of
Defendant who were subjected to unlawful wage-and-hour practices.  (FAC, ¶¶8, 31.)  Plaintiff seeks to collect civil penalties
for various Labor Code violations under sections 2699(f)(2) (for violating
sections 432.5, 226.2, 226.7, 558, and 512), 226.3 (for violating section
226(a)), 203 (for violating sections 201 and 202), 558(a) (for violating
section 510), 2699(f) (for violating sections 200 and 2802), and 225.5 (for
violating section 221).  (Id., ¶34.)  Plaintiff alleges that he submitted notice to
the Labor
and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) of the
specific Labor Code violations.  (Id., ¶36.) 
B.     Relevant
Background
On October 18,
2019, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stay the
proceedings.  
Defendant
appealed the Court’s order denying the motion to compel arbitration and filed a
Notice of Appeal on December 4, 2019. 
On October 17,
2022, the Court of Appeal issued its order affirming the Court’s denial of the
motion to compel arbitration.  On
February 2, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur attaching the October
17, 2022 order. 
C.     Motion
on Calendar 
On December 18,
2023, Proposed Intervenors Sandra McKenzie and James Taylor (“Proposed
Intervenors”) filed a motion for leave to intervene. 
On December 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed opposition papers. 

On December 29,
2023, Handy filed opposition papers. 
On January 5,
2024, Proposed Intervenors filed reply papers. 

REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Proposed
Intervenors request judicial notice of Exhibits: (A) the notice of settlement
filed in McKenzie v. Handy Technologies, Inc. (Court of Appeal, Second
Appellate District Case No. B311936) on December 1, 2023 (“McKenzie
Appeal”); (B) the objection to the notice of settlement in the McKenzie
Appeal on December 1, 2023; (C) the operative complaint in McKenzie v.
Handy Technologies, Inc. (LASC Case No. 20STCV20953) on June 3, 2020 (“McKenzie
Action”); (D) the FAC in Pote v. Handy Technologies, Inc. in this action
filed on November 19, 2018 (“Pote Action”); (E) the joint case
management conference statement filed on November 21, 2023 in the Pote
Action; and (F) Handy’s application for extension of time filed on October 2,
2023 in the McKenzie Appeal.  The
request is granted.  (Evid. Code, §
452(d).)  
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP § 387(d) states in
relevant part: 
(1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is
satisfied:
(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that
person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede
that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that person's interest
is adequately represented by one or more of
the existing parties.
(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an
interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both.
(CCP § 387(d).) 
“The burden to qualify for intervention as-of-right is ‘minimal’ and
evidence showing that existing representation ‘may be’ inadequate suffices.”  (Accurso v. In-N-Out Burgers
(2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 1128, 1137.) 
            With respect
to PAGA actions:
A PAGA action is designed to protect the public, not to benefit private
parties. (Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1756, AFL-CIO v. Superior Court
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 993, 1003, 95 Cal.Rptr.3d 605, 209 P.3d 937.) PAGA “does not create property rights, or any
other substantive rights” for aggrieved employees. (Ibid.) It is a
procedural statute authorizing private citizens to seek civil penalties that
State agencies otherwise would recover. (LaFace v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 388, 397, 290 Cal.Rptr.3d 447.) The PAGA statutory scheme
permits the deputization of multiple private parties to pursue “separate but
similar actions by different employees against the same employer.” 
(Accurso, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1141.)  
DISCUSSION           
            Proposed
Intervenors move for leave to intervene in the action, pursuant to mandatory
and/or permissive intervention rules.  
Proposed Inventors
argue that they have a direct interest in the outcome of the litigation as Handy
has represented that Proposed Intervenors’ claims have been fully “encompassed”
in a pending, clandestine PAGA settlement in the Pote Action.  (See Szeto Decl., ¶6, Ex. B.)  Proposed Intervenors argue that they were not
aware of the negotiations between Handy and Pote and their counsel, which
occurred on September 1, 2023, nor were they invited to the mediation
discussions; rather, they were informed by Handy that their entire case was resolved
without their knowledge or consent.  (Id.,
¶7.)  Proposed Intervenors argue that
they are actively litigating overlapping PAGA claims against Handy in the McKenzie
Action before Judge Jill Feeney in Department 78.  They argue that the have been deputized by
the State of California to pursue additional penalties for Handy’s willful
miscalculation of aggrieved PAGA employees, failure to maintain accurate
business records, failure to pay timely wages during employment, and failure to
provide timely tips—claims that were not alleged in the Pote Action.  Proposed Intervenors argue that Handy is
attempting to release the State of California and the aggrieved PAGA employees’
additional claims with the wrong PAGA representative.  As such, they argue that they are currently
impaired or impeded from protecting their interests and are no longer
adequately being represented by the current parties, such that mandatory and/or
permissive intervention is appropriate.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he filed the Pote Action on October 3,
2018 and 20STCV20953 filed their own follow-on action on June 3, 2020 in the McKenzie
Action, alleging virtually the same claims. 
Plaintiff argues that despite publicly filing the complaint with the
Court and the PAGA notice publicly available on the LWDA’s website, Proposed
Intervenors’ counsel did not check to see if a PAGA action already existed and
they never sought to coordinate/consolidate the actions or contact Plaintiff’s
counsel until December 2023.  Plaintiff
states that when Plaintiff’s counsel discovered on December 6, 2023 that Proposed
Intervenors intended to file a motion for leave to intervene, they requested
that the motion be put off until they could get more information about
potential settlement and to meet and confer. 

            Plaintiff
argues that Proposed Intervenors’ motion is untimely as they did not file their
motion until 20 months after Plaintiff filed the Pote Action and that
Plaintiff and Defendant have already expended time and resources to negotiate
and finalize a PAGA settlement.  Further,
Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff, counsel, and the Court can adequately protect
the LWDA and the State of California’s interests (the real parties in
interest).  Plaintiff also argues that Proposed
Intervenors technically do not have a “legal” interest in the matter as they
have no substantive or property rights in civil penalties recovered under PAGA,
which are the interest of the State.  Finally,
Plaintiff argues that Proposed Intervenors have not shown that continuing the
litigation without their participation as parties would impair their ability to
protect their rights.  
            In
Handy’s opposition, Handy makes similar arguments that Proposed Intervenors are
untimely seeking intervention nearly 5 years after the Pote Action was
filed, that the settlement was reached after arm’s length negotiations, private
parties do not have proprietary interests in PAGA claims, and Proposed
Intervenors have not shown how their interests are not adequately protected.  Handy argues that even if Proposed
Intervenors had an interest in the settlement, Proposed Intervenors have not
shown how Plaintiff does not adequately represent Proposed Intervenors’
interests and their aggrieved employees.[1]  Handy and Pote finalized and executed the
Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) memorializing the settlement on December
22, 2023.  (Nelson Decl., ¶11.)  
            Proposed
Intervenors rely on Accurso v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th
1128, in support of their argument that intervention is proper.  In Accurso, Tom Piplack and Brianne
Marie Taylor were the lead plaintiffs in a PAGA action against In-N-Out in
Orange and Los Angeles Counties.  (Accurso,
supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1132.)  Upon
learning of settlement negotiations in a subsequent, overlapping PAGA action
brought by Ryan Accurso against In-N-Out in Sonoma County, Piplack and Taylor
filed a proposed complaint in intervention in the Sonoma County action and
moved to intervene.  The trial court
denied the motion, but the Court of Appeal vacated the order and remanded for
reconsideration.  (Id.)  
            With
respect to the analysis on mandatory intervention, the Accurso Court
found that as deputized proxies of the LWDA, Piplack and Taylor each had a
public enforcement charge that qualified as a significantly protectable
interest and that any settlement of a PAGA claim within the ambit of their LWDA
proxy authorizations could potentially impair their legitimate proxy authority
conferred upon them.  (Id. at
1146.)  The Court stated that “[s]ince Piplack and Taylor possess a legal
interest sufficient to trigger eligibility for intervention as-of-right, their
entitlement to mandatory intervention turns on whether they are ‘so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede’ their protectable
interests and the closely related issue of adequacy of representation ‘by one
or more of the existing parties.’”  (Id.
[quoting CCP § 387(d)(1)(B)].)  The Court
found that Piplack and Taylor did not need to establish that their interests
will be impaired, but only that there is a substantial probability that their
interest will be so affected; however, the Court found that they failed to meet
this modest burden.  (Id. at
1149.)  The Court also found that Piplack
and Taylor failed to meet their burden that Accurso and his counsel were
inadequate representative because the settlement negotiations fell through and,
in the absence of an actual settlement demonstrating that Accurso exceeded the
scope of his LWDA authorization, the mere potential that he may be unable or
unwilling to represent Piplack and Taylor’s interest in a future, hypothetical
settlement was speculative.  (Id.
at 1152-53.) 
            With
respect to permissive intervention, the Accurso Court stated: 
[D]o nonparty PAGA claimants
with overlapping claims have something significant to add to the settlement
approval process? We think they may, and we are of the view that permissive
intervention supplies a means to make sure the perspective of potentially affected
non-party PAGA claimants is included in the settlement approval process.
Naturally,
the proponents of a hard-won settlement will have little or no incentive to
point out that the proposed settlement terms exceed anyone's authority; that
the releases given are overbroad; that the consideration is inadequate; or that
the allocation of money to be paid is in any respect unfair. As a result, trial
courts are often faced with the sometimes challenging task of spotting
deficiencies in a proposed PAGA settlement without assistance from anyone other
than participants to the settlement negotiations.[] But in situations where
PAGA claimants with their own overlapping claims in other pending cases show up
and wish to provide input, we see no reason why they should not be given a seat
at the table. And should trial courts wish to ensure that such PAGA claimants
are meaningfully involved in the settlement approval process, permissive
intervention even before the settlement approval process begins may be a
way to ensure that they are fully prepared to do so.
(Accurso, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 1153-54 [footnote
omitted].)  Although In-N-Out argued that
allowing permissive intervention would disrupt the litigation, the Court found
that Piplack and Taylor’s proposal did not enlarge the scope of the case and
arguably, in the long run, sought judicial economy to save judicial time in
multiple courts.  (Id. at
1154.)  
            First,
the Court will address whether the motion for intervention was timely
filed.   The Pote Action was filed
on October
3, 2018.  The McKenzie Action was
filed on June 3, 2020.  On November 28,
2023, Proposed Intervenors’ counsel received an email from Handy’s counsel
stating: “We have been advised that a settlement in principle has been reached
in the matter of Pote v. Handy, and that this settlement will encompass
the claims in your case.”  (Szeto Decl.,
Ex. B.)  On December 13, 2023, Pote’s
counsel sent an email stating, “We wanted to let you know that Handy’s counsel
in the Pote matter and I are willing to share some of the details of the
parties’ proposed settlement. We encourage you, therefore, to hold off on
filing a motion to intervene from now.” 
(Szeto Suppl. Decl., Ex. E.)  Proposed
Intervenors filed this motion on December 18, 2023.   The
Court will find that the motion was timely filed after notice of the settlement
agreement and will consider the motion on its substantive merits with respect
to the reasons for intervention. 
            Next, similar to the Accurso case, Proposed
Intervenors have shown that they have a public enforcement charge that would
qualify as a significantly protectable interest, such that any settlement of a
PAGA claim within the ambit of their LWDA proxy authorizations could
potentially impair their legitimate proxy authority conferred upon them.  Proposed Intervenors argue that they are not
seeking to expand the scope of the litigation, but rather seek a seat at the
table to ensure the settlement has proper representation for the claims Pote
and Handy are attempting to release. 
(Mot. at p.10.)  This is difficult
to ascertain completely as a copy of the settlement agreement has not been
provided to Proposed Intervenors or the Court, but the LWDA notices are
available. Based on these notices, it appears that there is both potential
overlap, and a potential that some claims in McKenzie are beyond the scope of
the Pote LWDA. For this reason, the Proposed Intervenors may have a point of
view that the Court should consider in approving a Pote settlement. 
Proposed
Intervenors also argue that Pote cannot adequately represent Proposed
Intervenors and that Pote cannot seek to release claims that are not specified
within his LWDA notice.  The LaCour
v. Marshalls of California, LLC (2023) 94
Cal.App.5th 1172 case is instructive: 
Contractually, no release is effective without party authority to
effectuate it. For the same reason, the underlying issue of LWDA
authorization-to-sue is inextricably bound up with the identity of claims
analysis here. If she purports to settle PAGA claims that are not the subject
of an adequate LWDA notice letter, a PAGA plaintiff exceeds her authority to
act on behalf of the LWDA and to that extent cannot bind the LWDA to a
judgment, at least not one that will have claim preclusive effect against a
PAGA claimant authorized to litigate a broader set of PAGA claims.
(LaCour v. Marshalls of
California, LLC (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 1172, 1194.)  “A settlement release exceeding the
plaintiff's LWDA authorization will limit the claim preclusive effect of a
judgment in binding nonparties, since it will prevent a defendant who later
seeks to interpose a res judicata defense from meeting the identity of claims
requirement necessary to trigger preclusion.” 
(Id.)
As summarized above in the “Background”
section, the Pote Action includes causes of action for: (1) declaratory
relief regarding the unenforceability of the representative action waiver; and
(2) relief under PAGA on behalf of current and former service providers for
Handy for requiring them to file an illegal arbitration agreement, for failure
to provide meal and rest breaks, for failure to provide timely, accurate,
itemized wage statements, for failure to make timely wage payments of all
wages, for failure to pay overtime, for failure to pay for all hours worked,
for withholding money from service providers in exchange for prompt payment of
wages, and for failure to reimburse service providers for work-related expenses.  Proposed Intervenors argue that the McKenzie
Action stems from Handy’s misclassification of workers as independent
contractors, delaying tips, and PAGA violations for Handy’s failure to: (1) pay
minimum wage, (2) pay overtime, (3) provide meal periods, (4) authorize or
permit rest periods, (5) pay timely wages upon termination, (6) pay timely
wages during employment, (7) provide complete and accurate wage statements, (8)
keep accurate business records, and (9) reimburse business expenses.  Proposed Intervenors argue that they were
deputized by the State of California to pursue 4 additional penalties against
Handy in their complaint, including: (1) willful miscalculation of the
aggrieved PAGA employees; (2) failure to maintain accurate business records;
(3) failure to pay timely wages during employment; and (4) failure to provide
timely tips.  (Mot. at p.1.)  In opposition, Pote argues that Proposed
Intervenors are free to argue in the McKenzie Action that the settlement
in the Pote Action does not encompass certain claims in their lawsuit on
the ground that Pote lacked authority to release them.  (Pl.’s Opp. at p.12.)  
Given the extensive age of both cases, the
apparent lack of any coordination to date, and that the case before the Court
is near resolution, an extensive intervention in this case does not appear to
promote the interests of judicial economy. Nevertheless, the Court believes
that a limited, permissive intervention is appropriate. The Court will allow
the Proposed Intervenors to intervene, to obtain a copy of the Settlement
Agreement and to object to the Settlement Agreement if they feel they have an
appropriate objection can be raised. This may occasion discussions of a global
resolution to be reached at a table where everyone is present. Nevertheless,
the Court will not at this time assume further jurisdiction over the resolution
of the claims in the McKenzie Action. That will be left in Department
78, where it has been for three years.   
For these reasons, the Court finds that
Proposed Intervenors have sufficiently shown that they are entitled to limited permissive
intervention for the purpose of objecting or approving of the settlement.  In this Court’s view, that is chiefly the
contribution that Proposed Intervenors can profitably add at this point in the
litigation.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Proposed Intervenors Sandra McKenzie
and James Taylor’s motion for leave to intervene is granted.  The parties and counsel in these actions
should make cooperative efforts to meet and confer regarding the settlement
terms.  
Moving party shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
             
 
DATED:
January 12, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 


