 Case Number:  22BBCV01029    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
illya kode, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
justin adam scarbrough, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case
  No.:  22BBCV01029
 
  Hearing Date: January 12, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
demurrer
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Illya Kode (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on October 22, 2020,
Plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Defendant Justin Adam
Scarbrough (“Defendant”) in Studio City. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant negligently operated his vehicle so as
to collide with Plaintiff’s person.  
The complaint, filed November 18, 2022, alleges causes of action for:
(1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On December 5, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint. 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer.  According to the proof of service, the
opposition was served on defense counsel by email on December 29, 2023.  
On January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition, stating
that Defendant did not receive an opposition brief to the demurrer
hearing.  
DISCUSSION 
Defendant demurs to
the complaint and the 1st cause of action for negligence on the
ground that they are barred by the applicable statute of limitations.  
Defendant argues that the accident occurred
on October 22, 2020, but this action was filed on November 18, 2022, which is
over 2 years and therefore time-barred by the 2-year statute of
limitations.  (CCP § 335.1.)  Defendant argues that while Plaintiff
attempted to file the lawsuit on October 19, 2022, the clerk of the court
rejected the filing because it was filed with the wrong court.  (Auchard Decl., ¶4, Ex. 1.)  He argues that Plaintiff then filed the
action with this Court on November 18, 2022, but by that point, Plaintiff had
missed the deadline to be within the statute of limitations period.  Defendant argues that the relation back
doctrine does not apply.  
According to Exhibit 1 of the demurrer
papers, the clerk of the court received the summons, civil case cover sheet,
and complaint on October 19, 2022, but rejected the filing on October 20, 2022
because it was filed in the wrong court district/location and indicated that
the case should be filed in Burbank.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
October 19, 2022 originally attempted filing date should apply because
Plaintiff submitted the complaint for filing within a timely period with the
Personal Injury Hub, but the filing came at the heels of the Personal Injury
Hub’s Eighth Amended Standing Order, effective October 10, 2022.  Plaintiff’s counsel, Jason M. Glantz, states
that promptly upon receipt of the notice of rejection, counsel re-routed the
initial pleadings to this Court and resubmission was completed on November 18,
2022.  (Glantz Decl., ¶5.)  Plaintiff argues that the Court should apply
equitable tolling and issue a nunc pro tunc order declaring the October 19,
2022 date as the filing date of the complaint. 
(As noted above, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition stating that
he was not in receipt of any opposition papers.) 
Based solely on the allegations of the
complaint and the date of the filing of the complaint in this action, Plaintiff
did not timely file this action within the 2-year statute of limitations
period.  As such, the action is time
barred. 
Nevertheless, Plaintiff may have an argument
that the original filing date of the complaint in the incorrect courthouse
should be considered the operative date of the filing of this complaint.  However, a demurrer is not the proper
mechanism to consider Plaintiff’s arguments and Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration statements regarding his conduct and the procedural history of the
case.  While there may be an argument to
consider the October 19, 2022 as the operative filing date of the complaint
filed in this action, Plaintiff should file an appropriate motion seeking such
relief.  Further, Plaintiff’s counsel
states that upon receiving notice of the rejection of the October 19, 2022
complaint, he “promptly” refiled the pleading with the Burbank Courthouse on
November 18, 2022.  Counsel should
explain why it took nearly a month to refile the identical papers with this
Court. The Court does not mean to prejudge such an argument, but believes that
it is not properly before the Court, and that the Court does not have
sufficient guiding caselaw or sufficient facts to rule upon it. 
The Court will continue the hearing on the
demurrer so that Plaintiff can file an appropriate motion regarding the filing
date of the complaint.  Also, as
Defendant represented that he was not in receipt of a copy of the opposition
papers, Plaintiff should re-serve the opposition. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Justin Adam Scarbrough’s demurrer to the complaint is continued to
March 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff is
ordered to re-serve the opposition papers on Defendant.  Defendant may file a reply brief prior to the
March 8, 2024 hearing date at least 5 court days before the hearing.  
Prior to the March 8, 2024 hearing date, Plaintiff should file and
schedule an appropriate motion seeking a nunc pro tunc order regarding the
filing date of the complaint.  The Clerk
of Court is advised that Plaintiff may schedule his motion (so long as it is
timely filed) concurrently with this demurrer on March 8, 2024.  
Defendant shall provide notice of their respective order. 
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: 
January 12, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  