 Case Number:  22BBCV00171    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
lorenzo
  espinosa, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
jay
  schermer and leslie druss as individuals and as trustees of the shermer trust
  dated march 7, 1984, et al.,  
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00171
    
  Hearing Date:   January
  12, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to dismiss for failure to
  prosecute pursuant to ccp § 583.410(a) 



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations 
Plaintiff Lorenzo Espinosa (“Plaintiff” or
“Espinosa”) alleges that he entered into a Residential Income Property Purchase
Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Agreement”) with Defendant Jay Schermer
and Leslie Druss as individuals and as trustees of the Schermer Trust dated
March 7, 1984 (“Schermer Trust”) on January 11, 2022 involving the real
property located at 6833-6835 Simpson Ave., North Hollywood, CA 91604.  Plaintiff alleges that escrow was opened on
January 11, 2022 with Time Escrow, Inc., but alleges that the listing broker
failed to disclose a conflict of interest between Time Escrow Inc. and
Defendant Razmik (Ray) Mirzakhanian (broker of the transaction and owner of
Time Escrow Inc.).  Plaintiff also alleges
that Schermer Trust had refused to make all of the seller’s disclosures under
the Agreement and refused to allow access to Plaintiff for inspection of the
property.  Plaintiff believes that a
second sale has been orchestrated with a different buyer.  
The complaint, filed March 17, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) specific performance;
and (3) intentional interference with contractual relations.  
On May 2, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Jay Schermer and Leslie Druss as individuals and as
trustees of the Shermer Trust dated March 7, 1984, Raznik Mirzakhanian,
Berkshire Hathaway Homeservices Crest, Poli Hernandez, and Julianne Whitaker
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Espinosa for: (1)
breach of contract; (2) fraud; (3) intentional interference with contractual
relations; (4) declaratory relief; and (5) injunctive relief. 
B.     Relevant Background
On November 4, 2022, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
On January 30, 2023, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration on the motion to compel
arbitration.  
On March 17, 2023, the Court heard
Defendant’s motion to compel an arbitration date and to select an
arbitrator.  The Court set a schedule for
the parties to agree upon an arbitrator. 

C.    
Motion
on Calendar
On November 14, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
filed a motion to dismiss for lack of prosecution pursuant to CCP §
583.410(a).  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP §
583.410 states in relevant part: 
(a) The court may
in its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this
article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to
the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.
(CCP § 583.410(a).) 

CCP §583.130
states:
It is the policy of the state that a plaintiff shall proceed with
reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action but that all parties shall cooperate in bringing the action to trial
or other disposition. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by rule of
court adopted pursuant to statute, the policy favoring the right of parties to
make stipulations in their own interests and the policy favoring trial or other
disposition of an action on the merits are generally to be preferred over the
policy that requires dismissal for failure to proceed with reasonable diligence
in the prosecution of an action in construing the provisions of this chapter.
(CCP § 583.130.) 

DISCUSSION 
Defendants and
Cross-Complainants move for an order dismissing Plaintiff’s action for lack of
prosecution.  
They state that
this action was ordered to arbitration on March 17, 2023 and that the Court set
a post-status arbitration conference for November 20, 2023.  They state that since an arbitrator was
appointed by the Court, Plaintiff has essentially disappeared such that
attempts to set an arbitration date by defense counsel and the arbitrator’s
secretary have been without success.  Defendants
and Cross-Complainants argue that the action should be dismissed since
Plaintiff has not done the minimum to complete arbitration.  
Defense counsel,
Marvin L. Benson, states that he made efforts to contact Plaintiff via phone,
email, and mail.  (Benson Decl.,
¶¶4-6.)  He states that his clients are
still interested in selling the home or refinancing the property.  (Id., ¶7.)  
Plaintiff
commenced this action (as a self-represented litigant) on March 17, 2022.  The action was compelled to arbitration on November
4, 2022 and the Court thereafter aided the parties in choosing an arbitrator
and setting an arbitration start date. 
There has been no progress or update by Plaintiff regarding the
arbitration and whether he intends to go forward with his action.  Plaintiff did not attend the April 11, 2023,
May 9, 2023, May 24, 2023, and June 1, 2023 hearings regarding the selection of
an arbitrator.  (On June 1, 2023, the Court
appointed Frederic W. Trester as arbitrator of the case.)  Plaintiff also failed to attend the November
20, 2023 post-arbitration status conference. 

Based on
Plaintiff’s conduct, it appears that he has abandoned his case.  While there is a policy in favor of
prosecuting actions on their merits, Plaintiff has failed to submit his claims
to arbitration as ordered by the Court, he has failed to attend numerous
hearings, defense counsel has been unable to contact him for months, and Plaintiff
has not opposed this motion.  As such,
the Court grants the motion to dismiss. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants and
Cross-Complainants’ motion to dismiss the action is granted.  Plaintiff’s action shall hereby be dismissed
with prejudice. Defendants shall provide notice of this order.
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: January 12, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 