 Case Number:  23SMCV00161    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  I The motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED unless
plaintiff has, prior to the date of this order, submitted adequate discovery
responses.  Defendant served the
discovery at issue on December 14, 2023—over a year ago.  Plaintiff responded with objections and no
answers on March 14, 2024.  Such
responses were bad faith.  Defendant
moved to compel and the court heard the motion on September 20, 2024.  The court granted the motion and ordered the
responses to be served without objections within 30 days, but plaintiff has
ignored that order.  Defendant has acted
appropriately.  Extensions were given and
follow ups were held.  Yet still nothing.

 
The opposition states that the problem is that there has
been a breakdown of communications between plaintiff and counsel.  That may well be true, but it does not excuse
plaintiff’s decision to abandon the case. 
Plaintiff cannot ignore litigation obligations and remain a
plaintiff.  Because the court has no
reason to believe that plaintiff has any interest in pursuing the case, and because
plaintiff has made no effort at all to comply with the court’s order, and
because the court has no reason to believe that any lesser sanction would lead
to compliance or good faith by plaintiff, the court believes that it has no
choice but to GRANT the motion.
 
The motion for terminating sanctions is therefore
GRANTED.  The complaint is stricken.  The court asks defendant to prepare an order
of dismissal, but not to submit it for 15 days. 
If, during that time, plaintiff brings a motion to reinstate her
complaint, the court will consider that motion before dismissing the case.  It could well be that some lesser sanction
could be issued that would better address the problem.  If plaintiff presents some reason to so
believe, the court would be willing to consider that reason.  As of this moment in time, though, there is
no such showing or even an attempt to make such a showing.  The court does not fault plaintiff’s counsel
for this; the fault lies squarely with the plaintiff.
 
This order has the effect of mooting the motions set for
1/3/25.  Those hearings are therefore
VACATED.  Further, this has the effect of
requiring the court to VACATE the FSC and trial dates.
 
Defendant to give notice. 