 Case Number:  SC128659    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  I This troubled case is here for a final status
conference.  The court is in receipt of
various FSC documents filed separately by the parties.  On Monday, December 30, 2024, Buckley filed:
(1) a declaration of intention to file a writ petition with the DCA; (2)
revised witness list with 9 witnesses listed as being ones Pomerantz will call
(with 10.8 hours of direct and 18 hours of cross) and 16 witnesses Buckley
intends to call (with 24.5 hours of direct and 11.75 hours of cross), although
of Buckley’s witnesses, 8 are listed as impeachment witnesses; (3) exhibit
list, meant more for illustrative purposes but with about 325 exhibits listed
and without any statements as to agreements on objections or authenticity and
(4) statement of the case.  On December
27, 2024, Pomerantz filed: (1) exhibit list with 130 exhibits total (claiming
Buckley waived all objections); (2) jury instructions, all of which but 2 are
CACI instructions and to which Pomerantz states Buckley has waived objections;
(3) statement of the case; (4) proposed special verdict form; (5) request for
judicial notice; (6) statement of unusual issues; and (6) witness list with 5
witnesses he intends to call with 9.4 hours of direct examination and 14.5
hours of cross. 
 
As to the above, the court prefers Buckley’s short statement
of the case.  The court is prepared to
discuss tweaks.  As to the exhibits, the
court had hoped for a joint list, but such is not to be.  The parties have trouble communicating and
Buckley claims it is improper to make him communicate with Pomerantz.  Pomerantz claims he did his best to communicate
with Buckley, but Buckley simply refuses to cooperate.  Buckley sought leave to file unilateral
documents, which he has done (although the court did not grant such
leave).  For these purposes, the court
will instruct Buckley to submit by 5:00 pm today any objections he has to
Pomerantz’s exhibits including authenticity and any other objections.  The failure to do so will be deemed a
waiver.  Given the length of the list and
Buckley’s unwillingness to talk to Pomerantz, Pomerantz is excused from doing
the same as to objections other than authenticity.  To the extent Pomerantz objects to an exhibit
as not authentic, he will so communicate that to Buckley by 5:00 pm today.  If either party honestly does not know what
the exhibit is, then the party may so state in lieu of the objection.  The court notes that the documents do not
appear to be identified by Bates numbers or the like.  Each will deliver to the other no later than
noon on January 3, 2025, either a physical copy or an image of the documents on
its list.  The parties are ordered to
avoid duplications.  If Pomerantz has an
exhibit on his list, Buckley should either not include it on his list or at the
very least not attempt to introduce it using his exhibit number at trial.  The court is placing the burden on Buckley
because Buckley’s list is the longer of the two.  Duplicate documents confuse the jury and the
court.  The court believes that Buckley’s
list is over long, but the court will deal with that if and as exhibits are
moved into evidence.  The court will
discuss the witness lists to try and figure out who is calling whom and the
purpose for it, although that might occur on Monday.  The jury verdict form needs some work.  Buckley is to propose his own jury verdict no
later than noon on January 3, 2025.  The
failure to do so will lead the court to consider any objections by Buckley to
Pomerantz’s form to be potentially waived. 
The court accepts Pomerantz’s jury instructions other than the special
instructions, which the court will discuss with the parties, although perhaps
on January 6.  That is because Buckley
has not objected to the instructions nor proposed his own.  The court GRANTS Pomerantz’s RJN to the
extent that the court agrees that court orders are properly subject to judicial
notice.  However, that does not mean that
they are admissible.  They must be both
relevant and not objectionable under 352 and the court is not now passing on
that issue.  Finally, as to the unusual
issues, the court agrees that Buckley’s evidence of pre-contract discussions
are inadmissible to show what the contract means.  While parol evidence is admissible to resolve
a latent or patent ambiguity, it is not admissible to vary the terms of a
written contract.  The court has
provisionally considered the evidence to determine whether the evidence would
support such an interpretation, but it does not.  The fee agreement (and the amendment) are
both written contracts.  Parol evidence
is therefore inadmissible to vary those terms. 
The contracts cannot plausibly interpreted as meaning that Buckley will
never pay the fee; that is just a meaning to which the words are not reasonably
susceptible.  As such, that evidence is
properly excluded for that purpose. 
However, those conversations are not made inadmissible to the extent
Buckley is alleging fraud by Pomerantz as to the contract, either as an
affirmative claim or affirmative defense. 
Fraud is an exception to the parol evidence rule, and the court is not
ruling that such conversations are inadmissible to prove fraud in the
inducement.  The court tends to agree
with Pomerantz that unrelated issues of fee disputes involving Pomerantz are
inadmissible, as discussed in one of the last go ‘rounds.
 
The court is prepared to rule on Pomerantz’s three in
limine motions.  The court does not
understand Buckley to oppose MIL 1 or MIL 3. 
MIL 1 was to exclude the police report. 
At least parts of it are hearsay, and thus the report as a whole cannot
be admitted.  Certain parts, however, may
be admissible.  Essentially, the line is
that the report can be used to reflect what the officers saw and heard and
observed, but not for what witnesses told the officers unless the witnesses are
present in court and testifies.  MIL 3 is
to bifurcate punitive damages.  Pomerantz
has a right to such an order, which is likely why Buckley does not oppose
it.  As to MIL 2, that is the one Buckley
does oppose.  Pomerantz wants to preclude
Buckley from introducing evidence as to Pomerantz’s reputation.  The court agrees and the motion is GRANTED.  The court is convinced—and firmly so—that
allowing Buckley to introduce reputational evidence will be unduly
time-consuming and confusing and that any legitimate probative value is very
substantially outweighed by the consumption of time and undue prejudice.  This is not a trial about Pomerantz’s
reputation, at least insofar as Buckley is concerned.  Buckley notes that had he been told he would
have to pay Pomerantz’s fee, he would have researched Pomerantz’s reputation
and the fact that he did not do so is evidence that the parties had reached an
agreement that the fee would never have to be paid.  That theory raises a host of issues, but
Buckley’s logic is not bad as far as it goes. 
And therefore, to the extent that Buckley wants to argue that the fact
that he never researched Pomerantz’s reputation is evidence that he never
thought he would pay a fee (in support of a claim of fraud in the inducement),
he may do so.  What he may NOT do is to
try and bring it what he claims he would have discovered had he done the
research.  Having said that, though,
there is an important caveat.  As the
court explained a year ago, Pomerantz cannot have it both ways.  He cannot claim that his reputation is
besmirched and then complain when Buckley attempts to show that his reputation
is no good anyway or that Buckley’s statements were true.  If Pomerantz makes this case about his hurt
feelings and damaged reputation, then Buckley cannot be barred from rebutting
that evidence by showing bad conduct in which Pomerantz allegedly engaged in
the past that damaged his reputation.  At
the last hearing, the court stated that it would stop Pomerantz from turning
this into some effort to vindicate himself because the case ought to center
around whether he ought to get a fee and if so how much.  But apparently no one wants a streamlined
trial.  Pomerantz wants to turn this into
a trial about his life, and Buckley seems more than willing to oblige.  The court will decide when the time comes,
but the court cautions Pomerantz that if he opens the door by introducing this
issue, the court will make no effort to stop Buckley from showing (or trying to
show) the jury that Pomerantz’s reputation was such that it was incapable of
being damaged or that Buckley’s allegedly defamatory statements were true.
 
The trial is set for January 6, 2025.  The court will be dark the week of January
13, 2025, however.  It might be that the
week of January 6 is best spent resolving any remaining issues and beginning
the voir dire process (with the jury informed that trial will not actually
start until January 21).  
 
On January 6, 2025, the parties will bring the following
trial notebooks to court.  Volume 1.  (A) Operative Pleadings for Pomerantz
(operative complaint and answer); (B) Operative Pleadings for Buckley
(operative complaint and answer); (C) Witness Lists (Pomerantz and Buckley,
separated by a blue sheet, although a joint list would be greatly appreciated);
(D) Exhibit List of Exhibits to be introduced by Pomerantz with any objections
by Buckley and Exhibit List of Exhibits to be introduced by Buckley with authenticity
objections by Pomerantz (separated by a blue sheet); (E) Buckley’s Short
Statement of the Case; (F) Jury Instruction List; (G) Proposed Jury
Verdict.  Volume 2.  (A) Exhibits tabbed by number with the
exhibit lists at the front.  (The court
recognizes that this may be more than one notebook.)  Volume 3.  (A) Jury Instructions on proper paper.  Volume 4.  Deposition Transcripts of any witness who
might be called in the case.  There will
be two copies of all volumes other than Volume 2.  There will be three copies of Volume 2.  Pomerantz will be responsible for Volumes 1,
3, and 4 and Buckley for Volume 2. 
(Buckley is responsible for Volume 2 because he is proposing more
exhibits.)  In addition to the volumes to
be given to the court, the parties are to ensure that they have provided the
opposing party with a copy of the volume or volumes for which they are
responsible.  
 
The parties will arrange for a court reporter.  If there is no court reporter, then the
parties will meet in person every day from the end of the court day until
midnight to reach an agreement on a settled statement.  If by midnight the parties cannot agree, then
they will provide the court with a red-line of Pomerantz’s version redlined
against Buckley’s version, which will be provided no later than 8:30 am the
following court day.  Pomerantz will be
responsible for filing the red-line with the court on odd numbered trial days
and Buckley will be responsible for filing on even numbered days.  The odd/even refers to the calendar day of
the trial, not the day of the filing or the cumulative trial day.  For example, the settled statement for the
first day—January 6—will be Buckley’s responsibility.  In the alternative, the parties can elect not
to have a court reporter and not to provide for settled statements, but only if
they stipulate to waive any appeal that might be based on anything for which a
reporter’s transcript or settled statement (or the like) would be needed.  The court is aware of Buckley’s limitations
as expressed previously.  However, absent
this procedure, the court does not know how best to hold the trial but preserve
the parties’ appellate rights.  To do it
any other way will require the parties to go the settled statement route months
after the trial concludes, with the court to be responsible for settling the
statement, again months after the event. 
Memories do not improve with age and such a procedure will make the
record one that could be riddled with inaccuracies.  This is the only way to make sure that the
record is as accurate as possible.