  Case Number:  21STCV02566    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  I The motion to re-open discovery is DENIED.
 
This case was filed almost four years ago—on January 21,
2021.  Defendant contends that more time
to complete discovery is needed.  The
court disagrees.  Defendant seeks to
re-open “limited” discovery so that he can conduct an IME, designate experts,
and take 8 depositions of witnesses—some of them plaintiff’s medical
providers.  The court cannot say that the
discovery, were it timely, would be improper. 
The problem is the timeliness.
 
Defendant did engage in some discovery while represented by
prior counsel.  But defendant and counsel
parted company and defendant fell off the proverbial grid.  He claims he lost track of this litigation
and was unaware of plaintiff’s discovery efforts.  Whatever the facts are on that issue, though,
he was fully aware that he was being sued. 
Nothing stopped him from retaining new counsel or representing himself
and taking discovery.  But he did
nothing.  He then got a new lawyer, Mr.
Shirley.  But Mr. Shirley did nothing
other than negotiate a deal to vacate the default that had been entered against
defendant—a deal which defendant later claimed never to have approved and which
he rescinded.  New counsel cannot be faulted
other than the fact that new counsel has been here for months but only brought
the motion in December (after initially filing a motion using AI that
apparently cited to non-existent cases). 
The fact is that defendant has not been diligent.  While it is true that he chose to be
unrepresented for a long time, that is not plaintiff’s fault nor is it an
excuse.  The fact that when unrepresented
he chose to ignore the case is also not plaintiff’s fault nor is it an
excuse.  The trial is coming up
quickly.  If this motion is granted, the
trial will need to be continued, and that is prejudicial to a plaintiff who has
waited for four years to have her day in court. 
While the court recognizes that the defense did attempt to advance the
hearing date after it filed its December 5, 2024, motion, even had that request
been granted the trial date could not stand. 
Nor does the court view this as laser-like discovery.  The court does not know how many experts
defendant intends to try and designate, but they would need to be deposed.  And eight depositions do not happen
overnight, especially when a number of the witnesses are doctors who will have
difficult schedules.  The court cannot
say that defendant has been diligent; precisely the opposite.  Defendant cannot postpone the trial again and
defendant cannot force plaintiff to bear the brunt of defendant’s own poor
litigation choices.  The motion is
DENIED.
 
(The court also notes, in passing, that the reply brief was
not timely filed.  The court has
considered it, even so.)
 