  Case Number:  22GDCV00670    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     12 Date:           10/4/2024     Case No: 22 GDCV00670Case Name: Bazikyan v. FCA US, LLC, et al.  AMENDED MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTMoving Party:               Plaintiff Armen Bazikyan    Responding Party:         Defendant FCA US, LLC (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:Order enforcing settlement agreement and directing defendant to come into compliance with its duties under the agreement FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Armen Bazikyan alleges that in November of 2021, plaintiff purchased a 2021 Jeep Grand Cherokee vehicle, which was sold to plaintiff with express warranties from defendant FCA US, LLC (FCA) that the vehicle would be free from defects in materials, nonconformities, or workmanship during the applicable warranty period, and to the extent the vehicle had defects, FCA would repair the defects.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff returned the vehicle to defendants for repairs under the warranties due to defects and nonconformities relating to the vehicle not changing gears until the accelerator pedal is tapped, as well as defects and nonconformities related to, among other things, left front fender flare coming apart, high rev transmission, vehicle not shifting in sport mode, rear interior quarter panel lifting up-not flush against the body, rear trunk panel warping, fuel pump clicking off, fuel tank concerns, fuel leaking, solenoid clogged up with fuel, and stalling of the vehicle and jerking when starting and accelerating. Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff delivered the vehicle to an authorized repair facility, defendant Glendale Dodge Chrysler Jeep (Glendale Dodge) to repair the nonconformities, but defendants have failed to make the vehicle conform to the applicable warranties, despite a reasonable number of attempts to do so.   Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff is entitled to replacement of the vehicle or restitution of the amount actually paid or payable under the contract, at plaintiff’s option, plus prejudgment interest at the legal rate.  The complaint also alleges that defendant Glendale Dodge breached its duty to use ordinary skill and care with respect to the vehicle in accordance with industry standards, as Glendale Dodge failed to properly store, prepare, and repair the vehicle, proximately causing plaintiff damages. The complaint alleges three causes of action for Violation of the Song Beverly Act, for breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, and violation of Song Beverly Act section 1793.2, as well as a cause of action for negligent repair.      The file shows that on June 5, 2024, plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.   On August 23, 2024, the court heard a motion to enforce settlement agreement filed by plaintiff, who argued that all of the settlement funds had not yet been paid, and that plaintiff was entitled to interest under the terms of the settlement agreement for the delay.  The motion was denied without prejudice by the court based on several deficiencies in the motion:“Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement Per Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6 is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. The Court finds that parties to pending litigation stipulated to the settlement of the case in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court. However, the Court cannot find on the showing currently before it that substantial evidence supports entering the requested orders in favor of plaintiff in the sum sought, which does not appear to appropriately reduce the agreed upon settlement funds amount due by all payments made by defendant, or that the payment is overdue according to the terms of the settlement agreement. The Court is also unable on the showing to determine that the payment of interest has been triggered. Interest claimed is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. The Court notes that the parties agreed that plaintiff is the prevailing party for purposes of a motion for costs, expenses, and attorney’s fees pursuant to CCP section 1794 (d), “as stipulated by the parties or, if the parties cannot agree, upon motion to the Court having jurisdiction over this action.” [Ex.1, para. 3]. This motion is ruled upon without prejudice to that provision of the settlement agreement being sought to be enforced….Counsel orally stipulate that the Court may dismiss the case with prejudice, and that the Court retains jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6. The Court orders the following: The Court, pursuant to an oral request made by Stipulation, orders the Complaint filed by Armen Bazikyan on 10/07/2022 dismissed with prejudice. The Court retains jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of settlement, including judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6. Balance to be paid is $57,157.27.”  ANALYSIS:CCP § 664.6 provides, in pertinent part:“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court...for settlement of the case,... the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”In this case, the court by its August 23, 2024 minute order has already found that that parties to pending litigation stipulated to the settlement of the case in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court.  The parties at that hearing also stipulated to the court retaining jurisdiction to enforce the settlement.   Plaintiff brings this amended motion, indicating that plaintiff is seeking the payment of the $57,157.27 identified as the balance due on the settlement funds, as well as interest owed.  On September 23, 2024, the court granted an ex parte application to advance the hearing on the amended motion to October 4, 2023.  On September 30, 2024, plaintiff filed a Supplemental Declaration of Amy R. Rotman in support of plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement.  That declaration indicates that plaintiff’s counsel received the outstanding settlement funds from FCA on September 25, 2024.  [Rotman Decl., para. 2].  The declaration indicates that although FCA owed $57,157.27, it paid $57,157.24, three cents short, but plaintiff is treating this as full payment.  [Id.] Plaintiff continues to seek interest from FCA because it paid the settlement funds late, which is apparently the only issue to be resolved on the motion.  There has been no opposition filed, and it is not clear from the file if an opposition date was scheduled on the ex parte application.  It is also not clear that supplemental briefing was intended to be permitted after the hearing.  In any case, plaintiff’s declaration seeks $3,682.19 in interest, based on the following testimony:“4. Per the parties’ settlement agreement, FCA owes 10% per annum interest from the date of acceptance through the date the settlement funds are received. (See Exhibit 1 to my declaration in support of the original motion, ¶ 7.)5. Now that the settlement funds have been received as of September 25, 2024,FCA owes $3,682.19 in interest [(($120,000 x 0.1)/365) x 112 (days between June 5 and September 25, 2024). Interest accrued at $32.88/day.”[Supp. Rotman Decl., paras. 4-6].  The original motion indicated that the acceptance occurred when the offer was accepted on June 5, 2024.  [Rotman Decl., paras. 5-7, Ex. 2].  Plaintiff relies on the provision at paragraph 7 of the settlement agreement, which states, in pertinent part:“If FCA does not timely perform pursuant to the terms set forth herein, Plaintiff shall be entitled to interest at a rate of 10% per annum, from the date of acceptance of this offer until the date Settlement Funds are received.”[Ex. 1, para. 7]. The calculation now appears to be in order, at $32.88 per day from the date of acceptance of the settlement 998 offer to the date of final payment on September 25, 2024, for a total of $3,682.19 in interest. The court had previously been concerned that the parties had stipulated that there would be no judgment entered in this matter but was sufficiently satisfied that on a proper showing based on the court’s equitable powers, an order for the payment of money owed could be entered as a judgment. As noted above, the parties also stipulated at the previous hearing “that the Court retains jurisdiction to make orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including judgment…”  [Minute Order, 8/23/2024].  The court will hear argument with respect to whether defendant disputes any of the matters raised by the supplemental declaration, as the declaration and calculations appear to now be straightforward.  RULING:[No Opposition] Plaintiff’s Amended Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement Per Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6 is GRANTED in part.  The Court notes that since the filing of the amended motion seeking payment of the remaining settlement funds, plaintiff has filed a Supplemental Declaration acknowledging payment of the settlement funds in full on September 25, 2024.  [Supp. Rotman Decl., para. 2].  Plaintiff continues to seek interest on the sum, which was not fully paid as agreed, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the settlement agreement (“If FCA does not timely perform pursuant to the terms set forth herein, Plaintiff shall be entitled to interest at a rate of 10% per annum, from the date of acceptance of this offer until the date Settlement Funds are received.”)  [Rotman Decl., Ex. 1, para. 7].The calculation now appears to be in order, at $32.88 per day from the date of acceptance of the settlement 998 offer on June 5, 2024, to the date of final payment on September 25, 2024 (112 days), for a total of $3,682.19 in interest.Plaintiff to submit an appropriate proposed judgment for the Court’s signature.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 