 Case Number:  24GDCV00306    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     7 Date:           10/04/2024   Case No: 24 GDCV00306  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Florencio, et al. v. Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care CenterDEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care CenterResponding Party: Plaintiffs Rosalba Florencio, individually and as successor in interest, Hector Javier Florencio and Marisol Barrera      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to first, third and fourth causes of action of Complaint   Strike attorney’s fees, punitive damages, treble damages     CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Elder Abuse/Neglect 2) Negligence/Willful Misconduct 3) Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights 4) Wrongful Death (Elder Abuse and Neglect) 5) Wrongful Death (Negligence) SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Rosalba Florencio, individually and as successor in interest to Carmen Martinez, deceased, as well as plaintiffs Hector Javier Florencio and Marisol Barrera, the other adult children of Martinez, allege that in February of 2023, following a hospital stay for surgery to repair a fracture in her femur, Martinez was admitted to a skilled nursing facility operated and managed by defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center.  The complaint alleges that upon admission, defendant knew that Martinez suffered from diabetes, immobility, and other conditions which left her at a high risk for serious infections, dehydration, malnutrition, diabetic ketoacidosis and other injuries if not provided with the care and services required by her needs.  The complaint alleges that Martinez, an elder at the time, was recklessly neglected as soon as she arrived at the facility, as no care plan was initiated for Martinez which included administration of insulin or diabetic medications, assistance with infection control, hygiene, toileting, or assistance with nutrition and fluid intake.  Plaintiffs allege that the facility, administrator, director of nursing and the caregivers assigned to Martinez knowingly and repeatedly failed to assist with hygiene, toileting, and changing clothes and bedding, and Martinez was left sitting in clothing soiled and in her own urine and feces for long periods of times, despite complaints from Martinez and the family members, and the facility failed to maintain good nutrition and hydration so that Martinez lost 16 pounds in the first ten days of her residency. It is also alleged that the facility and staff knowingly and repeatedly failed to administer diabetes medications, knowing Martinez was a diabetic, and that by February 15, 2023, Martinez began suffering severe nausea and vomiting due to low blood sugar levels, which contributed to Martinez’ inability to eat or drink.  The complaint alleges that by the time Martinez was hospitalized on March 3, 2023, Martinez had become so sick that she could not swallow her medications anymore, and facility staff had been failing to make sure Martinez took her medicine each day. The complaint alleges that while at the facility, Martinez’ blood sugar condition continued to deteriorate, but the facility and staff failed to intervene, that Martinez developed a serious urinary tract infection, and sepsis which progressed into septic shock, and suffered a diabetic stroke and diabetic ketoacidosis, and fell into a diabetic coma, losing consciousness.  At this point, defendants called 911, but concealed the diabetic stroke when they called 911, reporting only that Martinez suffered shortness of breath.  The complaint alleges that prior to her hip surgery, Martinez was a woman who was able to walk, cook, and clean for herself, but because of defendant’s neglect, it took only one month of being in defendants’ care and custody for Martinez to be on life support fighting for her life.   The complaint alleges that the neglect caused Martinez’ body to become too weak to stave off infections, and Martinez was discharged to hospice for comfort care on March 19, 2023, and died on April 22, 2023.  The causes of death were gram negative sepsis, UTI, e. coli, pseudomonas, and cholecystitis, which plaintiffs allege were directly caused by defendants’ conduct.  The file shows that at the time of the filing of the demurrer and motion to strike, the parties submitted to the court a Stipulation Regarding Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for Negligence/Willful Misconduct, Request for Treble Damages, and Reference to Injunctive Relief in Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Stipulation was signed by the court and entered as the Order of the court on July 31, 2024.  The demurrer and motion to strike accordingly are not directed to the points to which the parties have stipulated.  DemurrerFirst Cause of Action—Elder Abuse-Neglect Defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center argues that the cause of action does not allege with sufficient particularity acts of conscious or egregious neglect, as required to state a claim for elder abuse, and also fails to sufficiently allege involvement by an officer, director or managing agent of defendant, a corporate party.   Welfare & Institutions Code §15657, provides for heightened remedies to an elder adult: “Where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, or neglect as defined in Section 15610.57, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse…” The complaint is clearly based on allegations that defendant is liable for neglect of the deceased.  Under Section 15610.57, “neglect” is defined as follows:“(a) "Neglect" means either of the following: (1) The negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.(2) The negligent failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise that degree of self care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.(b) Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:(1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or shelter.(2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health needs. No person shall be deemed neglected or abused for the sole reason that he or she voluntarily relies on treatment by spiritual means through prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment.(3) Failure to protect from health and safety hazards.(4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.(5) Failure of an elder or dependent adult to satisfy the needs specified in paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, for himself or herself as a result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation, substance abuse, or chronic poor health.”(Emphasis added).Defendant argues that the allegations here involve only duties giving rise to a negligence claim, the substandard performance of medical services, in reliance on Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, and Delaney v.  Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23.   Covenant Care concerned resolution of the issue, which had resulted in a split among the Districts, of whether an Elder Abuse plaintiff need file a separate CCP § 425.13 motion to allege punitive damages.   The California Supreme Court relied on the distinction between professional negligence and the higher level of misconduct required to support an Elder Abuse claim, noting: “It is true that statutory elder abuse includes "neglect as defined in Section 15610.57" (Welf. & Inst. Code, @ 15657), which in turn includes negligent failure of an elder custodian "to provide medical care for [the elder's] physical and mental health needs" (id., @ 15610.57, subd. (b)(2)). But as we explained in Delaney, " neglect" within the meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from "professional negligence." As used in the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the "failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations." (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 34.) Thus, the statutory definition of neglect speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care. (Ibid.) Notably, the other forms of abuse, as defined in the Act--physical abuse and fiduciary abuse (Welf. & Inst. Code, @ 15657) --are forms of intentional wrongdoing also distinct from "professional negligence."   Delaney, supra, at p. 34.)    As we determined in Delaney, if the neglect (or other abuse) is reckless or done with oppression, fraud, or malice, "then the action falls within the scope of [Welfare and Institution Code] section 15657 and as such cannot be considered simply 'based on ... professional negligence' .... That only these egregious acts were intended to be sanctioned under Section 15657 is further underscored by the fact that the statute requires liability to be proved by a heightened 'clear and convincing evidence' standard." (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 35.)Covenant, at 783.     Covenant involved allegations of long-term neglect, resulting in decedents’ near starvation, severe dehydration, and infected bed sores, as well as allegations of a corporate scheme to misappropriate Medicare funds and avoid serious code violations.   These were clearly sufficient to amount to Elder Abuse under the statute.  Delaney v.  Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23 involved allegations that decedent had been repeatedly permitted to lie in her own urine and feces at a nursing home, so that four months after admission, she suffered pressure ulcers (bedsores) down to her bones.   Here, the complaint alleges conduct falling within the express definition of neglect, that is, that defendant failed “to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.” Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57 (b)(4).   It is alleged that defendant, and its Administrator, Director of nursing, and caregivers “failed to maintain good nutrition and hydration,” for decedent Martinez,  describing in great detail that Martinez would only eat 25 % of her food, lost 16 pounds in only 10 days, could not tolerate drinking water, and Martinez’s family would complain, but staff would throw away the food and not provide any nutritional supplement to compensate for the severe lack of nutritional intake, in conscious disregard of the high certainty of serious injury or death, as a result of which Martinez became malnourished and dehydrated.  [Complaint, paras. 35-37, 41, 68-74].  This presentation alone appears enough to satisfy the Elder Abuse statute.  In addition, the complaint alleges in great detail that the facility and its agents, knowing upon admission that Martinez was a diabetic, and knowing that unless a diabetic medication plan of care was implemented, Martinez’s health and safety would be put in jeopardy, became aware that Martinez was suffering severe nausea and vomiting due to very low blood sugar levels, describing those levels, and the failure to administer diabetes medications at all from February 16, 2023, until March 3, 2023, when Martinez was hospitalized.  [Complaint, paras. 37- 42].   The complaint goes on to describe in great detail the deterioration of Martinez’s condition, alarming test results which were disregarded, and not reported to family or a physician, and that as a result Martinez fell into a diabetic coma, suffered diabetic stroke and diabetic ketoacidosis, but the facility delayed in transferring Martinez to a hospital, delaying until Martinez fell into a coma and became non-responsive.  [Complaint, paras. 43-47, 72].  It is also alleged that when Martinez had suffered a diabetic stroke as a result of defendant’s failures to provide diabetes medication, defendant and its agents “concealed this fact when they called 911,” and “falsely reported only that MARTINEZ suffered of ‘shortness of breath.’”  [Complaint, para. 48].   This conduct as alleged is sufficient to allege the level of recklessness or “egregiousness” required under the law in providing custodial care to Martinez, beyond a claim for mere professional negligence.Defendant also argues that the neglect as well as the willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others required to support enhanced remedies, are not alleged with sufficient particularity.  Defendant cites to Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, in which the court of appeal affirmed the trial court’s sustaining of a demurrer, without leave to amend, of a hospital’s demurrer to claims for elder abuse, willful misconduct and wrongful death, where the allegations were that plaintiff’s decedent developed pneumonia and pressure ulcers after the hospital transferred him to a nursing facility, decedent was twice readmitted to the hospital for treatment of these conditions and died the second time. It was also alleged that the hospital did not give decedent lifesaving medications, despite records stating the contrary, and failed to properly stock a crash cart, as a result of which those treating him could not locate a common size endotracheal tube and intubate him in time to save his life.  The court of appeal set forth several examples of cases in which conduct had been sufficiently egregious to warrant an award of enhanced remedies for Elder Abuse, including Covenant Care, and Delaney, and set forth the following factors which must be present for conduct to qualify as Elder Abuse:“From the statutes and cases discussed above, we distill several factors that must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care (Welf. & Inst. Code, §§ 15610.07, subd. (b), 15610.57, subd. (b); Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 34); (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs (Sababin, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at pp. 85, 90;Benun, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at p. 116; Mack, supra, 80 Cal.App.4th at pp. 972–973); and (3) denied or withheld goods or services  necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's basic  needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) (Welf. & Inst. Code, §§ 15610.07, subd. (b), 15610.57, subd. (b), 15657; Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at pp. 783, 786; Delaney, at pp. 31–32). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. (Welf. & Inst. Code, §§ 15610.07, subds. (a), (b), 15657; Perlin, supra, 163 Cal.App.4th at p. 664; Berkley, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 529.) Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims. (Covenant Care, at p. 790.)”Carter, at 406-407.  As discussed above, the complaint here alleges with great detail the knowledge of the facility of Martinez’s needs, the failure to tend to them, or to notify a health care professional of the deteriorating condition, and describes, by reference to daily conduct and blood sugar levels, the facts constituting the alleged neglect.  [Complaint, paras. 34-48, 56-74, 83].    It should also be noted that the court of appeal in Carter found the demurrer of the hospital had been properly sustained, in part because the egregious conduct alleged in that matter was conduct which had not been engaged in by the hospital, but by the skilled nursing facility, which conduct is similar to that alleged on the part of the facility here:“The only acts and omissions listed in these “counts” that arguably are sufficiently egregious to constitute elder abuse—abandoning and isolating Grant in the shower; not drying him after bathing; not providing sufficient fluids for proper hydration; and not treating the pressure ulcers on his lower back and buttocks, resulting in sepsis (see Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a) [abuse includes abandonment and isolation]; id., § 15610.57, subd. (b)(1), (2), (4) [neglect includes failure to assist with hygiene, provide medical care or prevent dehydration])—are attributable exclusively to the Center.Carter, at 409-410, emphasis added. The cause of action here includes allegations which would have been sufficient against a caregiver such as the skilled nursing facility and defendant here, including not only the lack of nutrition, hydration, and the withholding of known necessary diabetic treatment, but the facility engaging in conduct such as leaving Martinez in soiled clothing and bedding for 24 hours at a time, leading to the development of UTI, sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock. [Complaint, paras. 45-47, 56-67].   Plaintiffs in opposition also note that the complaint includes detailed allegations of the facility failing to prepare a medical care plan, when case law recognizes that the failure to follow a care plan could support a claim for elder abuse; here the allegations are that no care plan was created at all.  [Complaint, paras. 32, 33, 39, 45, 65, 74, 85-].    Plaintiffs rely on Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81,  in which the Second District granted a petition for writ of mandate following the trial court’s granting of a motion for summary adjudication on a dependent adult abuse cause of action, finding that triable issues had been raised with respect to whether defendant rehabilitation facility’s employees had acted with recklessness, oppression or malice when they failed to follow the care plan established for maintaining the health of decedent’s skin, and ordered the trial court to determine whether defendant care facility’s motion for summary adjudication eliminated a triable issue as to employer liability.  The Second District in Sababin noted:“Covina contends that under Covenant Care, a care facility cannot be held liable for dependent abuse unless there is a total absence of care. We disagree.  If some care is provided, that will not necessarily absolve a care facility of dependent abuse liability. For example, if a care facility knows it must provide a certain type of care on a daily basis but provides that care sporadically, or is supposed to provide multiple types of care but only provides some of those types of care, withholding of care has occurred.”Sababin, at 90.  The opposition also points out that the complaint includes numerous allegations that elder abuse occurred here because defendant willfully understaffed their facility for profit motive.  [Complaint, paras. 10, 12, 14-15, 75-95].Plaintiffs point out that there is case authority under which understaffing allegations have been found sufficient to withstand demurrer with respect to the direct neglect on the part of a health care facility.  The opposition relies on Fenimore v. Regents of the University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, in which the Second District reversed the trial court’s judgment entered after it sustained a hospital’s demurrer to plaintiffs’ causes of action for Elder Abuse and negligent hiring and supervision, finding that the allegations stated there, that the hospital committed neglect by allowing an elder patient to fall minutes after entering the facility, and then failed to treat his fractured hip for four days, and violated certain state regulations for acute psychiatric hospitals, were not insufficient as a matter of law to state an elder abuse claim.  The Second District noted that while the first two allegations alone would likely be insufficient, the alleged regulatory violations “add more to the story, however.”   Fenimore, at 1347-1348.  The Second District concluded:“A violation of staffing regulations here may provide a basis for finding neglect. Such a violation might constitute a negligent failure to exercise the care that a similarly situated reasonable person would exercise, or it might constitute a failure to protect from health and safety hazards (George's known fall risk). The former is the definition of neglect under the Act, and the latter is just one nonexclusive example of neglect under the Act. (§ 15610.57, subds. (a), (b)(3).)”Fenimore, at 1348.  The Second District noted that in that case, it was alleged that the hospital “had a pattern and knowing practice of improperly understaffing to cut costs.” Fenimore, at 1348-1349.  As noted above, similar allegations are asserted here.  Although defendant argues in the reply that such allegations cannot alone not give rise to an elder abuse claim, as discussed above, numerous other supported recognized theories are alleged in the complaint.    The complaint alleges actionable elder abuse on numerous grounds.  Hence, the demurrer on this ground is overruled. Defendant also argues that the pleading fails to allege conduct on the part of the entity defendant with respect to ratification of the alleged misconduct.  Under Welfare & Institutions Code section 15657(c): (c) The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney's fees permitted under this section may be imposed against an employer.”Civil Code sec. 3294(b) requires that a plaintiff seeking punitive damages against a corporation must show such wrongful conduct by managing personnel of the corporation:“An employer shall not be liable for [exemplary]...damages based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer...ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, or ratification of an act of oppression, fraud or malice must be on the part of an officer, director or managing agent of the corporation. “ Civ. Code sec.  3294(b).   The complaint here includes numerous allegations of the above conduct engaged in directly by the facility’s “managing agents,” including the “Administrator and Director of Nursing,” as well as the ratification of conduct by  the facility, including that the facility and these managing agents “ratified the misconduct of their employees when they completely ignored the daily pattern of neglect in MARTINEZ’ care, and consciously failed to take any affirmative act to protect MARTINEZ from impending health hazards.”  [Complaint, paras. 33-35, 37, 38, 39, 45].   The pleading also includes a separate section detailing the direct conduct of the facility, as recognized in Fenimore, above, as well as the authorized conduct and ratification of managing agents, identified by title and in some cases by name, for example, Administrator, “Don.”  [See Complaint, paras. 101- 111].   As pointed out in the opposition, it has long been held that with respect to corporate ratification in connection with punitive damages that there is no requirement that a particular committee of officer of the corporation acted on a particular date with malice.  Plaintiffs cite to Romo v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1115, 1141 (Romo I).  The validity of Romo had been in question, as the California Supreme court had denied review and a request to depublish the opinion, but the U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari, vacated the judgment, and remanded to the appellate court for further consideration in light of the U.S. Supreme Court punitive damage rulings in State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Campbell 538 U.S. 231.  On remand, in Romo v. Ford Motor Co. (Romo II) (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 738, the court affirmed Romo I on all grounds except the federal constitutional issues. In Romo I, the court considered the argument that the jury had been presented no evidence of a specific managerial employee who had made any corporate decisions for pecuniary gain with respect to the wrongful conduct in that case, which involved allegations that defendant car manufacturer had placed a defective car on the market after its research department concluded a certain type of roof would never survive a roll-over.  The court of appeal found this not to prevent an award of punitive damages: “There is no requirement that the evidence stablish that a particular committee or officer of the corporation acted on a particular date with "malice." A corporate defendant cannot shield itself from liability through layers of management committees and the sheer size of the management structure. It is enough if the evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in "willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others." (Civ. Code, @ 3294, subd. (c)(1).)    A plaintiff may satisfy the "managing agent" requirement of CivilCode section 3294, subdivision (b), through evidence showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.”Romo I, at 1140-1141. Here, the allegations are more than sufficient to satisfy these standards.  The demurrer on this ground is overruled.   In conclusion, the demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled in its entirety. Third Cause of Action—Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights  Health and Safety Code section 1430(b) provides:“(b) A current or former resident or patient of a skilled nursing facility, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 1250, or intermediate care facility, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 1250, may bring a civil action against the licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient as set forth in the Patients Bill of Rights in Section 72527 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, or any other right provided for by federal or state law or regulation.” Defendant argues that Section 72527 provides a list of 26 very specific rights, and that since this cause of action is a statutory claim, each of the elements must be pled with particularity.  Defendant argues that the complaint fails to plead facts with strict particularity showing a violation of any one of the 26 specific rights. It is not clearly alleged what is lacking, and it appears that the complaint need only include one well pled violation to survive demurrer.   The complaint alleges the various regulations by section and by reference to the foregoing incorporated general allegations.  For example, it is alleged that the regulatory violations included:“g. Wrongfully withholding required care by failing to promptly notify MARTINEZ’ family, physician, and/or legal representatives of significant changes in her condition, including sudden and/or marked adverse change in signs, symptoms or behaviors and, unusual occurrences as required by 22 CCR § 72311; h. Wrongfully withholding required care in failing to timely, accurately and competently perform assessments for MARTINEZ as appropriate following changes of conditions, such as deterioration in health in either life-threatening conditions or clinical complications in violation of 42 CFR § 483.20(b)(11)(B)” and p. Wrongfully withholding required care by failing to transfer MARTINEZ to a higher level of care, including emergency care, when her medical needs and conditions required such elevated provision of care in violation of 22 CCR § 72519; 42 U.S.C. § 1395i3(c)(2)(i)(iii)-(iv)”[Complaint, para. 76, see also, para. 137].As discussed in detail above, the complaint alleges with great detail the wrongful withholding of required care by the facility in connection with the failure to provide diabetes treatment, failing to timely and competently perform assessments as the condition deteriorated, and blood sugar levels became dangerous, and failing to notify the family and physician of deteriorating conditions and complications.  The demurrer to this cause of action also is overruled.     Fourth Cause of Action—Wrongful Death (Elder Abuse and Neglect) "The elements of the cause of action for wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs."  Moxon v. County of Kern (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 393, 398-399, quoting Witkin, California Procedure (1954), vol 2, section 473, at page 1460. Defendant does not allege that all elements of this cause of action have not been sufficiently alleged.  Defendant argues that wrongful death by elder abuse and neglect is not a recognized cause of action under California law.  Defendant cites to Holland v. Silverscreen Healthcare, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1133-1135 (review granted Holland v. Silverscreen Healthcare (2024) 553 P.3d 865).    As noted in the opposition, since the filing of the moving papers, on August 21, 2024, the California Supreme Court granted a petition for review of the Holland opinion.  The Supreme Court’s order granting review does not specify the issue to be reviewed, but states:“Pending review, the opinion of the Court of Appeal, which is currently published at 101 Cal. App.5th 1125,… may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456, 20 Cal.Rptr. 321, 369 P.2d 937, to choose between sides of any such conflict. (See Standing Order Exercising Authority Under California Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115(e)(3), Upon Grant of Review or Transfer of a Matter with an Underlying Published Court of Appeal Opinion, Administrative Order 2021-04-21; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(e)(3) and corresponding Comment, par. 2.)The requests for an order directing depublication of the opinion are denied.”Holland v. Silverscreen Healthcare (August 21, 2024) 553 P.3d 865. In Holland, the Second District, in determining a petition to compel arbitration of a case against a skilled nursing facility brought by the parents of a resident, found that the trial court had properly granted the facility’s motion as to the survivor claims but improperly had denied the motion as to a wrongful death cause of action. In evaluating the petition to compel arbitration, the Second District noted that the trial court had concluded that the parents’ wrongful death cause of action was not subject to arbitration because it was “based on neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act,” rather than medical malpractice.  Holland, at 1130.  As plaintiffs argue, in that case, the Second District addressed a single cause of action by the parents for wrongful death, and whether it fell within the provisions subjecting it to arbitration under CCP section 1295(g)(2), noting that in that case “the parent’s bare bones claim” against the facility “sounds in professional negligence.”  Holland, at 1133.  “Specifically, the complaint alleges that Asistencia owed Skyler duties, that Asistencia failed to meet its duties, and that “[a]s a proximate result of negligence and ‘neglect’ ... [Skyler] died.” The allegations of understaffing and the failure to prevent Skyler from falling or developing infections speak to “negligent act[s] or omission[s] to act by a health care provider in the rendering of professional services” which proximately caused Skyler's death. (§ 1295, subd. (g)(2).)””Holland, at 1133. The court of appeal went on to address an argument that the cause of action was one for dependent adult abuse, not professional negligence.  The court of appeal had already found, however, that the cause of action sounded, at least in part, in professional negligence, and the court of appeal further determined that, “[e]ven if we agreed that a wrongful death claim based upon dependent adult abuse falls outside the scope of Ruiz and cannot be ordered to arbitration, that principle would not apply here,” because  “while a cause of action for statutory dependent adult abuse is distinct from one for medical malpractice…plaintiffs do not allege with adequate specificity how their claims here constitute dependent adult abuse and not professional negligence.”  Holland, at 1134.   Defendant relies on a discussion in which the Second District states that the law does not permit the parents to assert their own claim for neglect under the Elder Abuse Act, and “cannot circumvent this well settled principle by simply labelling their claim as one for wrongful death.”  Holland, at 1133-1134.  Plaintiffs persuasively characterize those observations as dicta here, as they were not necessary to the determination of that case, which repeatedly concluded the single wrongful death cause of action sounded in professional negligence.  Further, the case was addressed to the statutory analysis of arbitrability, not the viability of such a claim to withstand demurrer.  In addition, the Second District in Holland acknowledged that other case law has held otherwise in the arbitration context, quoting Avila v. Southern California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 835, 842:““If the primary basis for the wrongful death claim sounds in professional negligence as defined by MICRA, then section 1295 applies. If, as plaintiffs claim here, the primary basis is under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act ... then section 1295 does not apply and neither does Ruiz's exception to the general rule that one who has not consented cannot be compelled to arbitrate.””Holland, at 1134, quoting Avila, at 842.   Under the circumstances and given the authority which recognizes that a wrongful death claim may be based on neglect, and the fact that the complaint seeks only wrongful death damages in connection with the subject cause of action (see Complaint, paras. 147, 148), the court overrules the demurrer and at this point permits the cause of action to stand.  The issue may be revisited later in the litigation if further law develops and further summary challenges to the cause of action appear appropriate.   Motion to StrikePunitive Damages Defendant argues that the allegations of punitive damages should be stricken, as the allegations are not sufficient to show fraud, oppression, or malice. As an initial matter, the opposition indicates that plaintiffs waive argument as to the prayer for punitive damages within the prayer for relief only for the third cause of action for violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights.  The motion to strike will accordingly be granted as to this claim, at the concession of plaintiffs.  The prayer at page 37, THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION, para. 3, “For exemplary and punitive damages according to proof pursuant to Civil Code section 3294” (lines 7-8) are stricken from the complaint.    With respect to the first cause of action for elder abuse/neglect, plaintiffs argue that the punitive damages are properly claimed.  The Elder Abuse Act at Welfare & Institutions Code section 15657 provides: “Where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, or neglect as defined in Section 15610.57, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies otherwise provided by law: (a) The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's fees and costs. The term "costs" includes, but is not limited to, reasonable fees for the services of a conservator, if any, devoted to the litigation of a claim brought under this article. (b) The limitations imposed by Section 377.34 of the Code of Civil Procedure on the damages recoverable shall not apply. However, the damages recovered shall not exceed the damages permitted to be recovered pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 3333.2 of the Civil Code.  CCP § 377.34 provides:“In an action or proceeding by a decedent's personal representative or successor in interest on the decedent's cause of action, the damages recoverable are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or disfigurement.”Civil Code § 3294 (a) authorizes recovery of punitive damages on the basis of findings that “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice…”  “Oppression” is defined to mean “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  Civil Code § 3294 (c)(2).   “Malice” is defined to mean “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  Civil Code § 3294 (c)(a).    As discussed in detail above, the cause of action sufficiently alleges facts showing conduct in sufficient conscious disregard of the elder’s rights and safety to sufficiently support an Elder Abuse claim.  Those same allegations are sufficiently egregious to support a finding of malice to support a punitive damage award in such a statutory claim.  As discussed above, sufficient authorization or ratification has also been alleged.  The motion to strike accordingly is denied.Attorney’s Fees  Defendant also argues that attorney’s fees must be stricken, based on the same arguments of lack of oppression or fraud or corporate ratification to give rise to enhanced statutory remedies.  As discussed above, those arguments fail, because the enhanced remedies include attorney’s fees.  Hence, the motion to strike claims for attorney’s fees is denied.Treble Damages Defendant argues that the claims for treble damages should be stricken.  As pointed out in the opposition, the parties have stipulated that those damages are sought only with respect to the prayer for relief for punitive damages in the first cause of action and with respect to the prayer for civil penalties in connection with the third cause of action.  Treble damages are sought pursuant to Civil Code § 3345, which provides, in pertinent part:“(a) This section shall apply only in actions brought by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of senior citizens or disabled persons, as those terms are defined in subdivisions (f) and (g) of Section 1761, to redress unfair or deceptive acts or practices or unfair methods of competition.(b) Whenever a trier of fact is authorized by a statute to impose either a fine, or a civil penalty or other penalty, or any other remedy the purpose or effect of which is to punish or deter, and the amount of the fine, penalty, or other remedy is subject to the trier of fact's discretion, the trier of fact shall consider all of the following factors, in addition to other appropriate factors, in determining the amount of fine, civil penalty or other penalty, or other remedy to impose. Whenever the trier of fact makes an affirmative finding in regard to one or more of the following factors, it may impose a fine, civil penalty or other penalty, or other remedy in an amount up to three times greater than authorized by the statute, or, where the statute does not authorize a specific amount, up to three times greater than the amount the trier of fact would impose in the absence of that affirmative finding:  (1) Whether the defendant knew or should have known that his or her conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens or disabled persons.  (2) Whether the defendant's conduct caused one or more senior citizens or disabled persons to suffer: loss or encumbrance of a primary residence, principal employment, or source of income; substantial loss of property set aside for retirement, or for personal or family care and maintenance; or substantial loss of payments received under a pension or retirement plan or a government benefits program, or assets essential to the health or welfare of the senior citizen or disabled person.  (3) Whether one or more senior citizens or disabled persons are substantially more vulnerable than other members of the public to the defendant's conduct because of age, poor health or infirmity, impaired understanding, restricted mobility, or disability, and actually suffered substantial physical, emotional, or economic damage resulting from the defendant's conduct.” Defendant argues that plaintiff has failed to allege conduct constituting an unfair act.  The causes of action pertain to statutory sections, the Elder Abuse Act and Patient’s Bill of Rights, discussed above, which expressly authorize the imposition punitive damages and civil penalties.  It is clear from the allegations that defendant knew or should have known its conduct was directed to a senior citizen, and it is expressly alleged that defendants “were aware and knew that its conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens…” [Complaint, para. 95].  Hence, the statute applies such that this remedy is properly invoked. The motion to strike accordingly is denied. RULING:Defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. Motion is GRANTED at the concession of plaintiffs in the opposition with respect to the claim in the prayer for the third cause of action for Violation of Patient’s Rights for punitive and/or exemplary damages.  The Court strikes the following language from the Complaint: The prayer at page 37, THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION, para. 3, “For exemplary and punitive damages according to proof pursuant to Civil Code section 3294” (lines 7-8).      Motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, according to the withdrawal of the prayer by plaintiffs.  Motion is otherwise DENIED.  Ten days to answer.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 