 Case Number:  24NNCV01304    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     9 Date:           10/4/2024   Case No: 24 NNCV01304  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: OG Pasadena, LLC v. Hoyman, et al.   MOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant William D. Hoyman    Responding Party: Plaintiff OG Pasadena, LLC RELIEF REQUESTED:    Strike paragraph 12 of complaint (reasonable rental market value)     CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Trespass 2) Ejectment 3) Constructive Trust- Unjust Enrichment4) AccountingSUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff OG Pasadena, LLC alleges that defendant William D. Hoyman conducts business as The Bissell House located on Orange Grove Avenue in South Pasadena.   The complaint alleges that defendant Hoyman was the CEO, sole board member, and secretary of defendant 201 Orange Grove, Inc. which was the former owner of the real properly located at 201 Orange Grove, where defendant Bissell House 1887 LLC has and continues to operate a boutique hotel (subject property).   Plaintiff alleges that the subject property was sold under a power of sale under a Deed of Trust, that title to the subject property under the sale was perfected in foreclosure purchaser’s name on March 1, 2023, by the recording of a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale, and that title to the subject property was subsequently transferred from foreclosure purchaser to plaintiff, with plaintiff’s title having been perfected on April 12, 2023 by the recording of a Grant Deed.  Plaintiff alleges that the continued possession of the subject property by all defendants is unauthorized, criminal, willful, malicious and/or fraudulent.  It is also alleged that defendants have prevented plaintiff from obtaining possession of the subject property and have rented all or a portion of the subject property to others, and collected rents or profits, without renumeration to plaintiff.   The file shows that on June 28, 2024, the court heard a motion to quash service of summons filed by moving defendant William D. Hoyman.   The motion was denied, and counsel for plaintiff was ordered to give notice.  There is no notice of ruling in the file.  On July 15, 2024, defendant filed a Notice of Petition for Writ of Mandate.  On July 25, 2024, the court of appeal filed its order denying the Petition. ANALYSIS:ProceduralMeet and Confer  The declaration submitted in support of the motion does not indicate that defendant met and conferred concerning this motion to strike before filing it, and the opposition indicates that no meet and confer occurred in advance of the filing of the motion to strike.  CCP § 435.5 requires that before filing a motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer:“(a) Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading.(1) As part of the meet and confer process, the moving party shall identify all of the specific allegations that it believes are subject to being stricken and identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally sufficient, or, in the alternative, how the pleading could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.(2) The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date a motion to strike must be filed. If the parties are unable to meet and confer at least five days before the date the motion to strike must be filed, the moving party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a motion to strike, by filing and serving, on or before the date a motion to strike must be filed, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the motion to strike was previously due, and the moving party shall not be subject to default during the period of the extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a showing of good cause.(3) The moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a declaration stating either of the following:(A) The means by which the moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised by the motion to strike.(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.(4) A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient is not grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.”The declaration in support of the motion makes no mention of any meet and confer efforts.  [Hoyman Decl., paras. 1-4].   Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration stating:“At no time did defendant William D. Hoyman discuss with me by any means his intention to file the instant motion to strike. I never received a text, telephone call or other form of communication from Hoyman asking to meet and confer to discuss his objection to the allegation that the alleged opinion of daily rental value was improper.”[Nassie Decl., para. 2].  It appears that appropriate meet and confer did not take place prior to the filing of the motion.  The court expects the parties to meet and confer concerning the issues raised by the motion prior to the matter being called for hearing, and for defendant to submit via eCourt a declaration describing the meet and confer as required under CCP § 435.5(a)(3).  The matter will not be heard until the court is satisfied that the parties have met and conferred.  SubstantiveDefendant William D. Hoyman seeks to strike the allegation in the complaint that “The reasonable rental market value of the Subject Property is at least $1,666.66 per day.”  [Complaint, para. 12].The court notes that plaintiff entered a default against defendant Hoyman on July 26, 2024.  The court is puzzled that plaintiff has not addressed this issue in the opposition because given the default, defendant Hoyman would not have standing to file this motion.Under CCP § 435, a party may serve and file a motion to strike a part of a pleading.  Under CCP § 436:“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to CCP § 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”Under CCP § 431.10(c), an “immaterial allegation,” as defined in that section, “means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”CCP § 431.10(b) defines an immaterial allegation as follows:“(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following:(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  CCP § 437 provides, in pertinent part:(a) The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”The process for the trial court in ruling on a motion to strike is summarized by the Second District in Clauson v. Superior Court (1998 2nd Dist.) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253: “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. (Courtesy Ambulance Service v. Superior Court (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1519, 11 Cal.Rptr.2d 161; Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 91, 168 Cal.Rptr. 319; see California Judges Benchbook, Civil Proceedings Before Trial (1995) § 12.94, p. 611.)”Clauson, at 1255.    Here, defendant argues very generally that the allegation should be stricken because the representation that the reasonable rental market value of the subject property is $1,666.66 per day is false, because the reasonable rental market value is $617.00 per day.  As argued in the opposition, the motion on this ground is improper, as the alleged falsity of the allegation does not appear from the face of the challenged pleading, or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice, as required under CCP section 437, set forth above. It is not clear from the face of the pleading that the figure is false or improper, and defendant has failed to file a request for judicial notice.  Under CCP § 437 (b):“(b) Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit.” There is no matter of which the court may take judicial notice specified in the notice of motion or the points and authorities.  The only support offered for the argument is the declaration of defendant in which he states, “I contend that such claim is false in that the reasonable rental market value of is $617.00 per day.”  [Hoyman Decl., para. 3].  This assertion is not a proper basis for a motion to strike.  As noted above, in evaluating a motion to strike, the court assumes the truth of the allegations which appear in the pleading.  As argued in the opposition, the court must read the allegations as true and cannot under the circumstances consider defendant’s declaration.   At this point, the court must assume the allegation is true, and any further disputes as to the veracity or provability of the allegation can be addressed on a factual showing once the parties have had an opportunity to conduct discovery.  The motion to strike is denied.  RULING:Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint: The moving papers reflect, and the opposition indicates that there was no meet and confer conducted prior to the filing of this motion.  The parties are ordered to engage in the meet and confer required under CCP § 435.5 prior to the motion being called for hearing, and defendant is ordered to submit via eCourt the required declaration reporting the meet and confer before the Court will hear the motion. Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED. Ten days to answer. The court needs clarification of defendant Hoyman’s apparent current status of being in default. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 