  Case Number:  21PSCV00721    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiffs Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s Motion for
Order Compelling Defendant Esteban Cruz to Appear and Testify at Deposition and
Request for Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions
Respondent: Defendant Esteban
Cruz
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s Motion for
Order Compelling Defendant Esteban Cruz to Appear and Testify at Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Esteban Cruz’s counsel
is ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs Carlota G. Cruz and Dora
Cruz’s counsel on dates for a
deposition within ten (10) days of the issuance of this order.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs
Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s Requests for Sanctions against Defendant
Esteban Cruz and Defendant Esteban Cruz’s counsel are GRANTED in the amount of $847.50,
payable within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this order.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action arising from a dispute over a family trust. In September 1998,
Carlota G. Cruz and Carlota’s husband, Antonio V. Cruz, formed The
Antonio V. Cruz and Carlota G. Revocable Trust (Cruz Trust) and are trustees of
the Cruz Trust. In December 2012, Carlota and Antonio Cruz amended the Cruz
Trust. All of Carlota and Antonio Cruz’s assets and real property were
allegedly placed under the Cruz Trust. Due to their advanced age and medical
conditions, Carlota and Antonio Cruz became more dependent on their family
members and currently live in Pomona with Dora Cruz, their daughter. Carlota
and Antonio Cruz also have a son named Esteban Cruz who is married to Ruth
Cruz. Through Esteban and Ruth Cruz, Carlota and Antonio Cruz also have a
granddaughter named Wendy Cruz.
Esteban
and Ruth Cruz allegedly reside in residential property owned by Carlota and
Antonio Cruz and have allegedly failed to (1) pay for property insurance on the
residence and (2) pay property taxes. In March 2021, Carlota Cruz learned
Antonio Cruz had made changes to Antonio Cruz’s health plan, allegedly at the
behest of Esteban and Ruth Cruz. Carlota Cruz also learned Antonio Cruz had
closed bank accounts and changed his mailing address to Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s
address. Previously in February 2021, Carlota and Antonio Cruz had agreed that
Esteban Cruz would assist in collecting rent from rental homes belonging to the
Cruz Trust. However, Esteban, Ruth, and Wendy Cruz allegedly began managing the
properties and intimidating tenants to force tenants to move out or pay rent.
On
September 1, 2021, Carlota Cruz, as an individual and trustee of the Cruz
Trust, filed a complaint against Esteban and Ruth Cruz, Wendy Cruz, and Does
1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) elder abuse, (2) conversion,
(3) accounting, (4) restitution, and (5) declaratory relief.
On
July 21, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a cross-complaint against Carlota
and Dora Cruz as trustees of the Cruz Trust, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) defamation, (2) elder abuse, and (3) intentional interference with
right of inheritance.
On
August 29, 2022, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
September 13, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC) against the Carlota and Dora Cruz and Roes 1-10, alleging the same
causes of action. On October 23, 2023, the court sustained Carlota and Dora
Cruz’s demurrer to the FACC in part with leave to amend.
On November
13, 2023, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action. On December 15,
Carlota and Dora Cruz filed a demurrer to the SACC.
On January 3, 2024, Carlota
and Dora Cruz filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set
for February 8 with a case management conference on February 29.
ANALYSIS
Carlota
and Dora Cruz move to compel Esteban Cruz’s attendance at depositions they have
previously noticed and also request sanctions on Esteban Cruz and Esteban
Cruz’s counsel.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a)
provides:
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” ¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
The motion to compel must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production of the requested documents in the deposition
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) Good cause is construed
liberally and has been found where documents are necessary for trial
preparation. (See Associated Brewers Distributing Co. v. Superior Court (1967)
65 Cal.2d 583, 587.) The motion must also “be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce document . . . by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)
If the motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) However, “absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the result
of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (i)(1).)
Discussion
In April and May of 2023,
Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Esteban
Cruz’s counsel regarding potential dates for Esteban Cruz’s deposition. (Ruiz
Decl., ¶ 3; Karr Decl., ¶ 4.) After Esteban Cruz’s counsel failed to provide
any dates for the deposition, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel served a notice
of deposition by mail on May 12 that set the deposition for June 27. (Karr
Decl., ¶ 5-6, Ex. 2.) On June 13, Esteban Cruz’s counsel served an objection to
the June 27 deposition by mail and electronic transmission that claimed Carlota
and Dora Cruz’s counsel had failed to consult Esteban Cruz’s counsel regarding a
date for deposition. (Karr Decl., ¶ 7-8, Ex. 3.)
Although Carlota and Dora
Cruz’s counsel asserts this objection was meritless, counsel continued to meet
and confer with Esteban Cruz’s counsel on future deposition dates. (Karr Decl.,
¶ 10-13.) In August 2023, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel states Esteban Cruz’s
counsel offered November 7 as an available date for Esteban Cruz’s deposition.
(Karr Decl., ¶ 13.) But while counsel referenced Exhibit 7 of counsel’s
declaration, the court notes there is no evidence of Esteban Cruz’s counsel
agreeing to November 7 as a potential deposition date. (Karr Decl., ¶ 13, Ex.
7.) Furthermore, Esteban Cruz’s counsel provided a contrary declaration,
stating counsel never agreed to November 7 as a deposition date. (Gilanians
Decl., ¶ 12.)
On September 7, 2023, Carlota
and Dora Cruz’s counsel served an amended notice of deposition by mail that set
Esteban Cruz’s deposition for November 7. (Karr Decl., ¶ 13-14, Ex. 8.) On
November 3, Esteban Cruz’s counsel served an objection to the November 7
deposition by email that claimed counsel had a calendar conflict with that
deposition date and that Esteban Cruz will agree to appear at a future date and
time that is mutually agreeable. (Karr Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. 9.) In an email to
Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel on November 6, Esteban Cruz’s counsel confirmed
that Esteban Cruz would not be appearing for the November 7 deposition and
promised to obtain “some new dates as soon as I have a chance to meet with my
client.” (Karr Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. 12.) Subsequently, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s
counsel state Esteban Cruz’s counsel failed to do so, necessitating the present
motion. (Karr Decl., ¶ 20-21.)
While Esteban Cruz did file
an objection to the November 7 deposition, Carlota and Dora Cruz argue it was
untimely and improper. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410,
subdivision (a), “[a]ny party served with a deposition notice that does not
comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or
irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection specifying
that error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for
which the deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition
and any other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.” When
service is conducted by mail, it must be done at least five days before the
notice was due if the mailing address is within California. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1013, subd. (a).) When service is conducted by email, it must be done at least two
court days before the notice was due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd.
(a)(3)(B).)
Here, Carlota and Dora Cruz
argue Esteban Cruz failed to serve them with a timely mailed notice of Esteban
Cruz’s objection to the November 7 deposition. (Karr Decl., ¶ 15-16.) When the
assistant for Esteban Cruz’s counsel emailed the objection on November 3, the
assistant did note “the attached will follow by U.S. mail.” (Karr Decl., Ex. 11.)
Esteban Cruz’s counsel also claims notice was given on November 3 “by email and
U.S. mail.” (Gilanians Decl., ¶ 7.) But in opposing Carlota and Dora Cruz’s
motion, Esteban Cruz failed to provide any proof of service that shows the
objection was actually timely mailed. And even if the declaration of Esteban
Cruz’s counsel was sufficient, it failed to establish that the objection was
mailed eight days prior to November 7 as required in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1013, subdivision (a). Thus, based on the facts before the court,
Esteban Cruz failed to serve a timely objection to the November 7 deposition by
mail.
While Esteban Cruz’s counsel
also served the objection by email on November 3, Carlota and Dora Cruz argue
they never agreed to service by email. Esteban Cruz’s counsel does not contest
this assertion in counsel’s declaration and even if email service was proper, the
email service was not completed by November 2 as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B). Because Esteban Cruz failed to
timely object to the November 7 deposition, Esteban Cruz has waived any
challenge to the deposition and was required to be in attendance. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)
Accordingly, Carlota and Dora
Cruz’s motion to compel Esteban Cruz’s deposition is GRANTED and Esteban
Cruz’s counsel is ordered to meet and confer with Carlota and Dora Cruz’s
counsel on dates for Esteban Cruz’s deposition within ten (10) days of the
issuance of this order.
Carlota and Dora Cruz also
request an award of sanctions. As part of their request for costs, Carlota and
Dora Cruz claim a $795 cancellation fee for a Spanish interpreter that was
incurred as a result of Esteban Cruz’s failure to appear for the November 7
deposition. (Karr Decl., ¶ 21, Ex. 14.) But while Carlota and Dora Cruz’s reply
brief argues this expense was reasonable because Esteban Cruz’s first and main
language is Spanish, they fail to provide any evidence to support this claim
and the arguments of counsel alone have no evidentiary value. According to
their own deposition notice, an interpreter would only be required if Esteban
Cruz’s counsel requested one prior to the deposition. (Karr Decl., Ex. 8, p. 2:8-11.)
Because there is no evidence that Esteban Cruz’s counsel requested an
interpreter, the presence of an interpreter was not required for the
deposition. And while Carlota and Dora Cruz were certainly not prevented from
hiring their own interpreter to prevent a potential deposition from delay, they
cannot shift that cost onto Esteban Cruz.
Under the circumstances
presented, the court finds sanctions are warranted as to Esteban Cruz and
Esteban Cruz’s counsel. Accordingly, utilizing a lodestar approach and in view of the totality
of the circumstances, the court awards sanctions and finds reasonable attorney
fees and costs in the total amount of $847.50 (1.5 hours for drafting the
motion, 1.0 for reviewing the opposition and drafting the reply, and 1.0 for
attending the hearing at an hourly rate of $225 an hour plus $60.00 in filing
fees).  Sanctions are payable to
plaintiffs’ counsel in thirty (30) days.