 Case Number:  22SMCV02578    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Franco
Carlotto v. 11928 Darlington Ave, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02578
MOTION:                 Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   February 7,
2024
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
leased residential premises from Defendant 11928 Darlington Ave, LLC, the owner
and landlord.  Plaintiff alleges
Defendant Cirrus Asset Management Inc. was the landlord and property manager of
the premises.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to respond and remediate his complaints of other residents
smoking tobacco, marijuana and crack cocaine. 
Plaintiff alleges the noxious fumes penetrated and permeated his unit,
exposing him to carcinogenic and nuisance chemicals in the air.  
 
            Plaintiff alleges
Defendants ultimately moved him to a new unit in response to his
complaints.  Plaintiff alleges that even
in the new unit he was still exposed to second-hand smoke.  Plaintiffs alleges the new unit also suffered
from dangerous defects, including a gas leak. 
Plaintiff further alleges a fire erupted at the building in April 2022.  Plaintiff alleges the fire emanated from Unit
107, the same unit that was the source of fumes and tobacco and marijuana smoke
before Plaintiff was moved.  Plaintiff
alleges no smoke alarms were triggered and no onsite manager warned him of the
fire.
 
            Plaintiff also alleges
Defendants also failed to respond to the criminal activities at the
premises.  Plaintiff alleges residents
reported to Defendants repeatedly that there were individuals brandishing
weapons in the common area and tenants were dealing drugs to other tenants.  Plaintiff allege there were multiple car
breakins in the back of the building as well. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants were aware of these issues but refused to address
them properly.  Plaintiff alleges
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for complaining.  Plaintiff alleges he suffered bodily injury,
emotional distress and economic damages due to Defendants’ refusal to address
these habitability issues.  
 
            On December 8, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants. 
On August 22, 2023, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the 5th
cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
without leave to amend and overruled Defendants’ demurrer to the 7th
cause of action for retaliation and 9th cause of action for
violation of the UCL.  The Court also granted
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages with 10
days leave to amend and denied it as to Plaintiff’s claim for UCL remedies.
 
            On August 29, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging (1)
negligence—premises liability; (2) breach of lease; (3) breach of implied
warranty of habitability/tenantability; (4) breach of implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment; (5) violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance; (6) retaliation;
(7) violation of Proposition 65 (Health & Safety Code §25249.5); and (8)
unfair business practices.  On October 2,
2023, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Allegations.  
 
Legal
Standard
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP
§436.)  Pursuant to CCP §436, the Court
may strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” and/or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
(CCP §436.) In ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the complaint
are considered in context and presumed to be true: “[J]udges read allegations
of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.)
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
            “In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.”  (CC §3294(a).)
 
            “‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (CC §3294(c)(1).)  “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.”  (CC §3294(c)(2).)
 
            “An
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (CC §3294(b).)
 
“Ratification may be established by
any circumstantial or direct evidence demonstrating adoption or approval of the
employee's actions by the corporate agent. Such ratification may be inferred
from the fact that the employer, after being informed of the employee's
actions, does not fully investigate and fails to repudiate the employee's
conduct by redressing the harm done and punishing or discharging the employee.”  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 621 (to plead sexual harassment against employer
based on doctor’s conduct, nurse would be required to plead facts in support of
employer’s ratification).) 
“Ratification” occurs when the employer “demonstrates an intent to adopt
or approve” the employee’s wrongful acts, including in failing to intercede in
known patterns or to discipline once the misconduct becomes known.  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 726; CACI 3710; C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp.
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1110 (ratification may be demonstrated based on
employer’s failure to discharge employee who has committed and failure to
investigate or respond to charges that an employee committed an intentional
tort).)    
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to allege ratification of any alleged acts of malice or
oppression.  Defendants argue there are
also no allegations of intentional or even reckless conduct.  Defendants argue Plaintiff has only alleged
negligence and a breach of contract.  Defendants
argue the Court already found in connection with the prior motion to strike
that no despicable conduct was alleged and that despicable conduct is still not
alleged.  
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff
contends punitive damages are sufficiently alleged based on Defendants’ failure
to respond to repeated complaints of hazardous conditions and code violations
at the premises.  Plaintiff emphasizes
that Defendants are his landlords, a special relationship that has supported a
finding of outrageous conduct in the context of an IIED cause of action.  Plaintiff argues Defendants’ complete failure
to remedy these conditions despite knowledge of their existence and the danger
they posed to tenants qualifies as malice and oppression.  Plaintiff also argues Defendants decision to
move him into a unit they knew suffered from a gas leak qualifies as
malice.  Plaintiff contends that Civil
Code §3294(b) does not apply here, because Plaintiff and Defendants were not in
an employer-employee relationship. 
Finally, Plaintiff argue there is an independent basis for punitive
under Civil Code §1942.5.
 
A.   
 Plaintiff’s
complaint sufficiently alleges acts that a reasonable trier of fact could deem
“malicious”or “oppressive”
 
            The Court
agrees that Civil Code §1942.5(h) is a separate statutory ground for punitive
damages.  “Any lessor or agent of a
lessor who violates this section shall be liable to the lessee in a civil
action for all of the following:…(2) Punitive damages in an amount not less
than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2000) for
each retaliatory act where the lessor or agent has been guilty of fraud,
oppression, or malice with respect to that act.”  However, because section 1942.5(h)
incorporates the requirement of malice, fraud or oppression, Plaintiff must
still allege facts consistent with Civil Code §3294’s malice, fraud or
oppression requirement.
            
            Here, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged Defendants’ intentional retaliation for assertion of his
tenant rights.  The Court overruled
Defendants’ demurrer to the 6th cause of action for retaliation,
confirming the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendants
intentionally and knowingly retaliated against him for asserting his tenant
rights under Civil Code §1942.5.  (FAC,
¶27.)  As such, punitive damage are
sufficiently pled under Civil Code §1942.5(h)(2).  
 
            Plaintiff also
sufficiently alleges facts from which a reasonable trier of fact could find
malice under Civil Code §3294(c)(1). 
Defendants allegedly maintained multiple hazardous conditions on the subject
property, including unchecked criminal activity by residents, brandishing of
weapons in common areas, lack of fire alarms, drug use resulting in Plaintiff’s
exposure to carcinogenic and noxious fumes, drug dealing, lack of an onsite
manager and an apartment with an active gas leak.  (FAC, ¶¶ 11, 27, 29, 34, 60.)  Due to these hazardous conditions, a fire
broke out in April 2022 and residents had no warning of the fire due to the
lack of any smoke alarms on the premises or an on-site manager.  (FAC, ¶¶ 32, 50-59.) 
 
            Plaintiff alleges he
informed Defendants in writing of these dangerous conditions, and Defendants
failed to remediate them properly, ultimately resulting in a fire from the unit
where the alleged drug use was taking place. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 17, 18, 23.)  Defendants
were also cited by the City for multiple habitability and safety
violations.  (FAC, ¶ 41.)  Defendants’ property manager allegedly stated
in writing that Defendants would not make the required repairs and would rather
leave Plaintiff’s unit to decay to drive him from the unit.  (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
These allegations are sufficient to plead malice.  Defendants knew of hazardous conditions at
the subject property but refused to remediate them, in part due to a desire to
retaliate against Plaintiff and in part due to a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s
rights and safety.  Reasonable minds
could conclude based on these facts that Defendants intended
“to cause injury to the plaintiff” or that Defendants’ conduct was “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others,” particularly given the parties’
landlord-tenant relationship.  (Civ. Code
§ 3294(c)(1).)  As landlords, Defendants’
position gave them the power to damage Plaintiff’s interests, as only
Defendants could remediate the hazardous condition issues.  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101
Cal.App.3d 903, 925-926.) 
 
            Finally,
Civil Code § 3294(b) does not apply.  Plaintiff
is not alleging liability based on the acts of Defendants’ employee.  Plaintiff is alleging liability based on
Defendants’ policy of not responding to Plaintiff’s complaints and refusing to
remediate hazardous conditions.  Even if
Civil Code § 3294(b) applied, Plaintiff’s allegations establish authorization
or ratification of the wrongful acts based on Defendants’ failure to respond to
Plaintiff’s complaints and the City’s citations.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ knowing
refusal to comply was stated in writing by its managing agent, a property
manager.  (FAC, ¶40.)  The property manager allegedly had the power
to decide whether Defendants would perform the repairs required by the City.  (Id.) 
These allegations are sufficient to establish that the property manager
was a managing agent of Defendants per CC §3294(b), i.e. the manager had
substantial discretionary authority over significant aspects of management of
the building.  (Davis v. Kiewit
Pacific Co. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 358, 361 (question of fact existed as to
whether defendant’s highest ranking employee on a construction site qualified
as a managing agent to hold defendant liable for employee’s acts per CC 3294(b));  White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, 566–567 (in employment action, zone manager who was in charge of
85 stores and had significant discretionary authority on how those stores were
run on a daily basis qualified as a “managing agent”).)
            
            Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages is DENIED.  