 Case Number:  23STCV23194    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  85 
Constant v. City of Los Angeles,
et al., 
23STCV23194
Tentative
decision on demurrer:  sustained without
leave to amend




 



 
Respondents City of Los Angeles and its City Council,
Department of Public Works, and Bureau of Engineering (collectively, “City”) demur
to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Petitioner Nicholas Robert
Constant (“Constant”). 
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. FAC
On September 25, 2023, Petitioner Constant commenced this
proceeding against the City.  The
operative pleading is the FAC, filed on June 10, 2024, alleging causes of
action for (1) violation of California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and
(2) injunction, declaratory and mandatory relief.  The FAC alleges in pertinent part as follows.

 
a. Factual Allegations
Constant is a resident of Los Angeles County (“County”) and
owns a property that abuts Silver Lake Boulevard, directly across from the
Silver Lake Reservoir Complex (“Reservoir”). 
FAC, ¶1.  The Reservoir is a
127-acre property developed in a valley surrounded by a residential
neighborhood mainly consisting of single-family homes.  FAC, ¶20. 
The Reservoir was adopted as Los Angeles Monument Number 422 on March 3,
1989.  FAC, ¶20.  The Reservoir has been subject to various
modifications over the years but none required decades of construction
time.  FAC, ¶22.
On or about March 2018, local politicians pushed to create a
decades-long “Master Plan” for the Reservoir (“Project”).  FAC, ¶23. 
The politicians partnered with the City’s Department of Water and Power
and architectural firm Hargreaves Jones. 
FAC, ¶23.  On January 6, 2022, the
City released a Notice of Preparation of a draft environmental impact report
(“DEIR”) with a comment period ending February 7, 2022.  FAC, ¶24. 
The DEIR indicated that the Project would increase particulate and ozone
precursor emissions compared to existing conditions, increase traffic, and
“result in less than-significant impacts with respect to CO hotspots.”  FAC, ¶25. 
This analysis was deeply flawed because it understated the Project’s potential
environmental impacts and failed to adopt feasible mitigation to reduce those
impacts.  FAC, ¶26.  The Reservoir is used both permanently and
seasonally by federally protected species, notably migratory birds.  FAC, ¶35.
Beginning October 6, 2022, Constant and other individuals
and groups commented on the DEIR, resulting in a 2000 plus page final EIR
(“FEIR”).  FAC, ¶36.  The FEIR was released to the public in July
2023, contained few substantive revisions, and failed to meaningfully respond
to many of the DEIR comments submitted to the City.  FAC, ¶37. 

On August 4, 2023, the City’s Energy and Environment
Commission passed the FEIR on a 4-0 vote with Los Angeles Council District 4
Councilmember Nithya Raman abstaining due to her ownership of private property
close to the Project.  FAC, ¶39.  On August 23, 2023, the City Council met to
consider the Project.  FAC, ¶40.  Despite large attendance for public comment,
a special vote was quickly taken to avoid public scrutiny and silence
whistleblowers.  FAC, ¶40.  The Project and FEIR were approved with a
unanimous vote, again with Councilmember Raman abstaining.  FAC, ¶41. 
On August 23, 2023, the City filed a Notice of Determination for the
Project.  FAC, ¶41.  
Constant alleges that the City violated CEQA by certifying a
FEIR that (a) fails to adequately analyze and mitigate the following impacts:
wetlands, emissions, transportation, parking, future development, (b) provides
an inadequate and inaccurate baseline for analyzing the Project’s impacts, (c) provides
an inadequate, inaccurate, and unstable description of the Project (d) fails to
adequately consider the cumulative and growth inducing impacts of the Project
in a fully developed neighborhood primarily consisting of single-family homes,
(e) rejects feasible mitigation measures, and relies on ineffective,
unenforceable, and/or improperly deferred mitigation measures, (f) rejects
feasible Project alternatives that would have reduced significant impacts while
still meeting Project objectives, (g) adopts overly narrow, yet maximally
invasive recreational Project objectives over a “No Project” zero emission
alternative, (h) adopts findings not supported by substantial evidence, (i)
violates CEQA Guidelines section 15088 by failing to adequately respond to
public comments and (j) fails to use the County’s 2045 Climate Action Plan (“CAP”)
goals as a guide to collectively achieve required levels of greenhouse gas
reductions to zero.   FAC, ¶¶ 48-61.
 
b. Causes of Action
The FAC’s first cause of action is for violations of CEQA (Public
Resources Code section 21000 et seq.) and the CEQA Guidelines.  Plaintiff alleges that the City’s actions in certifying
a FEIR that was inadequate and fails to comply with the requirements of CEQA,
the CEQA Guidelines, and state law was an abuse of discretion. 
The FAC’s second cause of action is for injunction, declaratory and mandatory relief. Constant
alleges that the City violated Community Redevelopment Law and the County’s CAP
in approving the Project. 
 
c. Prayer for Relief
Plaintiff seeks (1) alternative and peremptory writs of
mandate directing the City to vacate and set aside its certification of
Project, reclassify, and proceed under the County’s Redevelopment rules and
ordinances; (2) a declaration voiding Silver Lake Master Plan and all
accompanying approvals, including the CEQA-mandated FEIR; (3) a permanent
injunction restraining the City from taking any action to implement the
Project, pending full compliance with the requirements of federal, State,
County, and City Community Redevelopment Laws; (4) declarations that the
County’s CAP must factor into City’s analysis of future Community Redevelopment
Project’ greenhouse gas emissions over the next three to five decades; (5) acknowledgment
and protection of Constant’s and neighbor’s whistleblower status; (6) costs of
the suit; (7) an award of attorney fees; and (8) for such other and further
relief as the court deems just and proper. 
 
2. Course of the Proceedings
On September 25, 2023, Constant filed the Complaint. 
On October 27, 2023, the City filed an Answer.
On February 14, 2024, the City filed a motion to dismiss the
CEQA claim for failure to comply with Public Resources Code section 21167.4.
On May 21, 2024, the court ordered dismissal of the first
cause of action with prejudice pursuant to Public Resource Code section
21167.4(a) due to Constant’s failure to file the mandatory request for hearing
within 90 days.  The court allowed Petitioner
to amend the second cause of action to allege a violation of a County rule or
ordinance outside of CEQA. 
On June 10, 2024, Constant filed the FAC. 
On July 1, 2024, the City filed both a demurrer to the FAC and
an Answer.
On September 10, 2024, Constant filed an opposition to the demurrer.

On September 23, 2024, the City filed its reply.
 
B. Demurrer
1. Applicable Law
            Demurrers
are permitted in administrative mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108,
1109.  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and
will be sustained where the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) The party against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may object by demurrer or answer to the
pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is timely filed within the 30-day
period after service of the complaint.  CCP §430.40; Skrbina v.
Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364. 
            A demurrer may be asserted on any one or more of the
following grounds: (a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading; (b) The person who filed the pleading
does not have legal capacity to sue; (c) There is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action; (d) There is a defect or
misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is uncertain (“uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP
section 411.35 or (i) by CCP section 411.36.  CCP §430.10. 
Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds
for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially
noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.  The face of the pleading includes attachments and
incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp,
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The ultimate
facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that
may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates, (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).   
            If a demurrer is sustained, the court may
grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as may be just and shall fix
the time within which the amendment or amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP
§472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a motion for judgment
on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  Dudley v.
Department of Transportation (“Dudley”) (2001), 90 Cal. App. 4th
255, 260.  However, in response
to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint
shall not be amended more than three times, absent an offer to the trial court
as to such additional facts to be pleaded that there is a reasonable
possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
C. Analysis
            Respondent
City demurs to the FAP in its entirety, asserting that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a valid cause of action against the City.  CCP §430.10(e).
 The court previously dismissed the FAP’s
first cause of action and the only matter at issue on demurrer is the second
cause of action.[1]
 
1. Meet and Confer
On June 20, 2024, Counsel
for the City and Petitioner held a meet and confer and did not resolve the
issues raised by the City’s meet and confer letter.  Shyu Dec., ¶8. 
The City has satisfied its requirement to meet and
confer. 
 
            2.
Merits
Petitioner
challenges the City’s approval of the Project on August 23, 2023.  See FAC ¶¶ 3, 20-35, 40.  At the May 21, 2024 hearing, Petitioner
argued that he could allege in an amended petition that the City violated a
“County” “rule” or “ordinance” separate in apart from “a state claim” such as
“CEQA.”  RJN Ex. E, pp. 8, 9, 12.  The court granted Petitioner “20 days leave
to file a First Amended Petition to allege a violation of a County rule or
ordinance outside of CEQA.”  
The FAC filed in response to the court’s ruling only amends
the second cause of action for declaratory relief.  FAC ¶¶ 65-78.  The FAC alleges that the City (and the Los
Angeles County Development Authority (“LACDA”)) violated the Community
Redevelopment Law (Health and Safety Code §33100 et seq.) in approving
the Project.  See FAC ¶¶ 70-75, 77, 80,
82.  The FAC also alleges an unspecified
violation of the County CAP.  FAC ¶¶ 71,
83.
The City’s demurrer to the second cause of action makes a
series of arguments, all of which are well taken.  
 
a. The Community Redevelopment
Law
The City points
out that Petitioner was granted leave to allege a violation of a County rule or
ordinance.  Yet, the FAC alleges that the
City (and County LACDA, which is not part of this lawsuit) violated the
Community Redevelopment Law in approving the Project.  FAC, ¶¶ 70-75, 77, 80, 82.   The Community Redevelopment Law is a state
law, not a County rule or ordinance. Thus, the FAC fails to comply with the
Court’s order.  Dem. at 6. 
Moreover, the Community Redevelopment Law has been dissolved
by the Legislature.  In 2011, the
Legislature passed, and the Governor signed, ABx1 26, which dissolved all
authority under the Community Redevelopment Law and all redevelopment agencies
formed pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law.  RJN, Ex. A, p. 22; Health and Safety Code §§
34172(a)(1), 34172(b).  The California
Supreme Court upheld ABx1 26 in California Redevelopment Ass'n v. Matosantos,
(2011) 53 Cal.4th 231, 242. As such, the Community Redevelopment Law’s
requirements are inoperative for the City. 
AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. City of Los Angeles, (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 167, 176.  Therefore, the
City could not have violated the Community Redevelopment Law when it approved
the Project.  Dem. at 7.
Petitioner’s
opposition does not defend the FAC’s reliance on the Community Redevelopment
Law.  While an opponent’s failure to
address arguments and cases is not a per se waiver, these points “will be
deemed submitted.”  See California
Insurance Guarantee Association v. Workers’ Compensation Appeal Board, (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 307, 316, n. 2.  Petitioner has no claim under the Community
Development Law.  
 
b. The County CAP
The FAC retains the
Petition’s allegations that the City’s FEIR violated the County CAP, but this claim
under CEQA was dismissed with prejudice. 
See FAC, ¶¶ 59-64.  The FAC
then makes general references to environmental protection and the Community
Redevelopment Law (FAP ¶¶ 69-70) and refers to the County CAP’s goals as not
derivative of CEQA but rather separate legal and planning structures that
attempt to balance urban renewal, growth, market conditions, and climate change.  FAC, ¶71.  The FAC alleges that the Project is not just
the refurbishment of a City park and requires higher scrutiny than the City’s
Master Plan meets or LACDA allows.  FAC,
¶74.  The FAC asks for declaratory relief
on the basis of “Los Angeles County’s Redevelopment rules and ordinances”.  FAC, ¶80.  It also alleges that the County CAP “must
factor into the City’s analysis of future Community Redevelopment Project’[s]
greenhouse gas emissions over the next three to five decades”.  FAC, ¶83. 
These vague
references are insufficient to allege a violation of any rule, ordinance, or
law.  Nor can Petitioner rely on the County
CAP.   First, the CAP did not exist when
the City approved the Project on August 23, 2023.  See FAC, ¶40.  The County CAP was approved by the Board of
Supervisors on April 16, 2024.  RJN Ex.
B, pp. 11-13.  The County CAP was only a
draft when the City approved the Project, and the City could not have violated
it.  Dem. at 7-8. 
Nor is the County
CAP a County rule or regulation.  In
approving the County CAP on April 16, 2024, the Board of Supervisors stated:
“The CAP is not a regulatory document but rather a plan-level framework for the
County to implement, and instead sets strategies, goals, and actions to reach
emissions reductions targets, which include zero emissions vehicles market
share.”  RJN Ex. B, p. 12.  Since the County CAP is a plan-level framework
rather than an enforceable County rule or ordinance, it cannot form the basis
of authority with which the City must comply. 
Dem. at 8. 
Even if the County
CAP were retroactive, it still would not apply to the City.  The County CAP provides that it “focuses on
actions to reduce GHG emissions associated with community activities in unincorporated
Los Angeles County” and “guides County actions through a comprehensive suite of
strategies, measures, and actions that are geographically specific to unincorporated
Los Angeles County.”  RJN Ex. C, p. 42
(emphasis added).[2] 
The limitation of
the County CAP to unincorporated areas of the County is deliberate.  The County provides many services
county-wide.  Stirling v. Board of
Supervisors, (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 184, 187.  However, fire and police protection, street
maintenance, and many other governmental services are provided by the county
only in unincorporated territory.  Id.  This is because a county’s police power and
zoning are limited to unincorporated areas of the county.  Specifically, ordinances in zoning and other
regulatory fields are effective only in unincorporated territory.  See City of South San Francisco v.
Berry, (1953) 120 Cal.App.2d 252, 253; California Constitution, Art.
XI, §7 (“A county or city may make and enforce within its limits all local,
police, sanitary, and other ordinances and regulations not in conflict with
general laws”).  The County CAP does not
apply to the City, and the City could not have violated it.  Dem. at 8-9.
Petitioner’s
opposition offers no argument to the City’s showing that the County CAP was not
in effect when the City approved the Project and cannot apply to the City as a
matter of law.  Again, these issues are deemed
submitted.  See California
Insurance Guarantee Association v. Workers’ Compensation Appeal Board, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th at 316, n. 2. 
Petitioner
generally argues that his lawsuit challenges the City’s approval of a massive
redevelopment project of a DWP Reservoir Complex in a primarily residential
community already besieged by air pollution and other harms. The Project is
located on gated grounds for safety and security, on DWP property that is part
of a waterway system connected to Port of Los Angeles (“Port”), accessed by
narrow streets in a deep valley, and located in a well-established residential
area.  Opp. at 1.  This Reservoir Complex is unique in its
positioning, ownership, sovereignty, and instrumental connection to interstate
commerce via roads and waterways to City, County, national, and global
ports.  Opp. at 2.  
Petitioner
argues that his property and the approved redevelopment are integral parts of the
Port that depends on federal, state, and County regulations and financial
resources to operate.  Via its FEIR, the
City ignores the basic nature of the underlying property as part of a system of
interstate commerce connecting to the Port via a waterway system, state and federal
road systems, that is of high value and high security for national
interests.  Opp. at 8.
            In the
past, each project at the Reservoir Complex has caused varying degrees of benefits
and damages to Petitioner’s enjoyment of his property and personal health, but
all changes have been furthered with the security and safety of the Reservoir
as their primary focus. The Project is a multi-decade Master Plan for the
future development of the Reservoir and its environs that was approved by the City,
not for safety and security, but for politically motivated beautification and
recreation, ignoring the Reservoir’s crucial role in City’s waterway and Port
system.  No previous modifications
(including the initial construction) required decades of construction time.  Opp. at 3.
The City
ignores the unique standing of the Reservoir as a participant in a complicated balance
of federal, state, and County regulation, treating it as if it is simply a City
park ripe for redevelopment, rather than a crucial piece of the Port
infrastructure that must be vetted by more than just City, County, or environmental
regulations.  Legal scrutiny must be
discussed from a top-down view, starting with the federal police power as
concerns the Dormant Commerce Clause. 
Opp. at 9. 
The
FAC alleges that the City’s approval violated a County rule or ordinance “as
part of a multi-sovereign conflict of environmental regulatory powers, based on
a “patchwork” of federal, state, and local rules.  Opp. at 1-2. 
All are subject to a further patchwork of regulations anchored by the
dormant Commerce Clause, National Environmental Protection Act (“NEPA”), CEQA,
and federally mandated California Clean Air State Implementation Plans (“SIP”).  The City is violating multiple environmental
regulations under a wide framework of misjudging the character of Reservoir
Complex ownership by DWP and connection to the Port in its approval of the Project.  Opp. at 3.  The Reservoir redevelopment plan discriminates
against interstate commerce on its face and is an undue burden on interstate
commerce’s crucial role in serving Port and national interests, and there are
no local benefits from this state action other than potential beautification or
recreation.  Opp. at 10-11.  
The City
will argue that this broad look at the regulations goes beyond the court’s
order to
find a conflict between City and County regulations, but
City and County regulations must pass federal scrutiny as their powers flow
from the federal Commerce Clause legal framework. The 200-year-old framework of
Commerce Clause balancing state and federal police power then leads to the
second balance that must be considered: NEPA. 
Opp. at 11.  The City’s demurrer
ignores that County and City environmental regulations are designed, obligated,
and ordered through the California SIP required by federal clean air laws for
polluted areas to attain national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) under
deadlines and continuous monitoring. 
Opp. at 12. All legal justifications for the Reservoir Complex’s
redevelopment must be vetted against scrutiny under the Commerce Clause,
NEPA/CEQA, County and City regulations as controlled by SIPs, and the structure
via the ruling in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo, (2024)
144 S.Ct. 2244, which overruled the “Chevron deference” established in Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., (1984).  Opp. at 13.
            These
general references to some over-arching environmental principles, various
statutes and regulations (NEPA, NAAQS, Clean Air Act (“CAA”), the relationship
between sovereigns on environmental issues, and an inapplicable recent high
court case (Loper Bright) are insufficient to state a claim.  Petitioner cites no specific statute,
regulation, or case that the City’s Project violated.  It is not enough to mention a statute or
regulation without alleging facts that would support a violation.
Moreover,
the City is correct that there is no interstate commerce connection to the
Project.  Under the Dormant Commerce
Clause, state regulations may not discriminate against interstate commerce and
may not impose undue burdens on interstate commerce.”  See South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc.,
(2018) 138 S.Ct. 2080, 2091.  Assuming
the City’s approval of a recreational park project is state regulation, it does
not involve interstate commerce and does not discriminate or impose an undue
burden on interstate commerce.  
Petitioner’s
claim that the Reservoir is part of a system of interstate commerce, controlled
by DWP and connected to the Port via a waterway system and state and federal
road systems is untenable.  The Port is
over 30 miles away from the Project. 
Both are owned by the City, and the existence of a waterway system and
state and federal roads connecting the Reservoir to the Port does not mean the
Project involves or affects interstate commerce.  
Petitioner’s
reference to NEPA is unsupported by any specific statutory reference.  NEPA is only triggered for “major Federal
actions.”  See 42 USC § 4332(2)(C).  Petitioner does not, and cannot, show anything
related to the Project requires a major federal action. If it did, the NEPA
claim would have to be filed in federal court. 

Petitioner’s
reference to the California SIP and the CAA is similarly unsupported by a
specific statutory reference.  The SIP is
a plan that does not contain any enforceable emission standards or
limitations.  Such standards would need
to be proposed and adopted as a rule by the State or a regional Air Quality
Management District.  Reply RJN, Ex. 2.  Moreover, there must be a violation of “an
emission standard or limitation” to bring suit under the CAA.  See 42 U.S.C. §7604(a)(1).) Petitioner
does not, and cannot, point to anything in the SIP that would show the City
violated an emission standard or limitation. 
In short,
Petitioner relies on general statements of law and principles which do not
state a claim against the City. 
 
D. Conclusion[3]
The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
An OSC re: dismissal is set for October 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.  


