


[1]Requirement
(1) concerns Native Americans and is not at issue.


[2] Grey
requests judicial notice of 17 CCR section 50510(9).  The request is granted.  Evid. Code §452(b).


                [3] The DSS/DHCS joint
opposition addresses issues of mental health coverage under H&S Code
section 1374.72 and continuing coverage, apparently because Grey mentioned them
to the ALJ (AR 51) and then cited his own comment in his opening brief (Pet.
Op. Br. at 14), Opp. at 11.  The
opposition notes that H&S Code section 1374.72(a)(1) requires a health care
service plan to provide coverage for “medically necessary treatment of mental
health and substance use disorders, under the same terms and conditions applied
to other medical conditions….”  The
opposition argues that the weight of the evidence shows that Real Parties
provided mental health treatment services (AR 54-55) and simply did not cover
the out-of-network provider that Grey wanted. 
Opp. at 11.
The
opposition argues that Grey’s concern that changing to an in-network provider
would be detrimental and likely cause a regression in his son’s disruptive
behaviors does not change the fact that Medi-Cal provides coverage for
medically necessary treatment of mental health. 
LACDMH’s July 16, 2020 letter listed five in-network providers that
offered the medically necessary treatment needed by Jackson.  Although Grey testified that none of these
providers would accept his son as a patient/client, the ALJ correctly found
that the evidence does not support his claim. As such, Medi-Cal’s mental health
coverage meets the requirements under Health & Safety Code section
1374.72.  Opp. at 12.
            The joint opposition additionally
argues that Grey seeks continued reimbursement for future services with the
non-Medi-Cal affiliated providers.  This
request misconstrues DSS’ role, which is merely the adjudicatory body
responsible for reviewing DHCS’s administrative actions, including Medi-Cal determinations.  DSS cannot administer health care plans.  Moreover, Grey forfeited this argument by
failing to raise this claim at either administrative hearing.  Indeed, the ALJ declined to address the issue
of ongoing reimbursement because Grey did not request review of this claim.  Opp. at 12-13.
            The issues of mental health coverage
under H&S Code section 1374.72 and continuing coverage are not actually
raised in Grey’s opening brief and need not be addressed by the court.


[4]
The court judicially notices this provision. 
Evid. Code §452(b).


[5]
Grey is correct that the joint opposition
does not address his argument that the ALJs made no rulings on Grey’s equitable
estoppel arguments.   Reply at 5.


            [6] The
joint opposition also points out that Grey’s position is undermined by the fact
that Jackson ultimately made a successful transition to another provider, Steinberg,
showing that he could have made a successful transition to an in-network
provider without regression.  Opp. at 11.

