 Case Number:  24STCV14899    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 10, 2024                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Andre Andraos v. Samuel Oganesyan
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV14899            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Samuel Oganesyan, in pro per
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Andre
Andraos
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on June 13, 2024.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to repay a loan. 
 
Defendant moves to set aside the
default entered on September 26, 2024. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside
Default is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s Answer filed with the
Court on October 8, 2024 is deemed the operative Answer for this action. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves to set aside the
default entered on September 26, 2024 under Code of Civil Procedure section
473.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b) provides in pertinent part:
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment…taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment…was taken.
 
(Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(b).) ‘[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a
strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting
party his or her day in court. (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th
975, 981-82.) 
 
Defendant was served by substituted
service on June 29, 2024. (September 20, 2024 Proof of Substituted Service.) Defendant
states that he consulted with an attorney regarding the retention of his
services on or about July 22, 2024. (Declaration of Samuel Oganesyan ISO Mot. ¶
8.) Defendant does not state whether he retained an attorney, and admits that
he “was not sure” if the attorney with whom he consulted filed an answer on his
behalf. (Id. ¶ 11.) Default was entered on September 26, 2024.
(September 26, 2024 Request for Entry of Default.) 
 
Plaintiff opposes this motion first
on the grounds that it is procedurally defective in that it does not include a
copy of the proposed answer. Strictly speaking, Plaintiff is correct that there
is no proposed answer included with the moving papers. However, Defendant filed
a belated Answer with the Court on October 8, 2024 and served that Answer on
Plaintiff by mail. (See Proof of Service filed October 8, 2024.) As this filing
is directly referenced in Defendant’s moving papers, the Court construes his
late-filed Answer as a proposed Answer accompanying this motion.
 
Plaintiff also opposes the motion
on the grounds that Defendant has not demonstrated mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, because Defendant does not explain why he did
not follow up with the attorney with whom he consulted, nor does he account for
the period between the consultation and the entry of default. Although the
Court agrees that Defendant’s explanation for the failure to answer is somewhat
thin, the weight of authority strongly favors the granting of relief under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473 when that statute is applicable. (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82.) Certainly, Defendant’s
declaration is tantamount to an admission of neglect, but the Court is not
prepared to say that his neglect was inexcusable. Moreover, Defendant’s
admission that he was uncertain of the status of the case is suggestive of mistake
of fact, which is a separate ground for relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473. Given the strong public policy in favor of relief, the Court finds
that Defendant has made a sufficient showing to warrant relief from default. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside
Default is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s Answer filed with the
Court on October 8, 2024 is deemed the operative Answer for this action. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 10,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 