 Case Number:  24STCV06090    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 10, 2024                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Raul Arellano v. Tawa Supermarket, Inc. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06090            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Tawa Supermarket, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Raul
Arellano
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/12/24: Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for discrimination and retaliation that was filed on
March 12, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that he was denied accommodations for his
medical issues and was ultimately terminated because of his disability and his
race. 
 
Defendant moves to compel
arbitration of this dispute pursuant to an arbitration agreement. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            This
action is STAYED pending resolution of the arbitration.
 
            The
Court sets a Status Conference Re: Arbitration for Monday, December 8, 2025 at
8:30 AM. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves to compel
arbitration of this dispute pursuant to an arbitration agreement. 
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Plaintiff
 
            Defendant objects to the declaration
of Plaintiff filed in support of the opposition on the grounds that it is an
English document purportedly from a declarant who natively speaks Spanish and
does not read or write English with any level of fluency and which is not
accompanied by a certified translation by a qualified interpreter. (See Cal.
Rules of Court Rule 3.1110(g).) Defendant also objects that the declaration
purports to bear an electronic signature but contains nothing to indicate that
the signature is unique to the declarant, as required by Rule 2.257(b)(1). 
 
The
Court disagrees that Rule 3.1110(g) governs the translation of declarations and
other statements, as opposed to exhibits. In Correa v. Superior Court (2002)
27 Cal. 4th 444, 458-459, the California Supreme Court held that the trial
court is to determine on a case-by-case basis whether a translated statement fairly
should be considered the statements of the speaker by considering relevant
factors such as “which party supplied the interpreter, whether the interpreter
had any motive to mislead or distort, the interpreter's qualifications and
language skill, and whether actions taken subsequent to the conversation were
consistent with the statements as translated.” 
Here, Plaintiff has presented a declaration in English and a document in
Spanish that is described by Plaintiff’s attorney as a true and correct copy of
the Spanish version of the declaration that was presented to Plaintiff for his
review and signature.  (Contreras Decl.,
§ 3, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff initially failed
to explain who did the translation or the qualifications or language skill of
the interpreter, so the Court could not evaluate whether the translation
provided in fact reflects the English words on the declaration submitted.  More recently, Plaintiff has submitted a
declaration from Salvador G. Ordorica, who purports to be a certified
interpreter who translated the declaration for Plaintiff.  But this filing is also flawed in that Mr.
Ordorica’s declaration is also in Spanish and thus cannot be properly
considered by this English-language court. 
Plaintiff’s supplemental submission does correct the Spanish version of
his declaration by providing his signature rather than the  “/s/” previously inserted for Plaintiff’s
signature, which did not not comply with Rule 2.257(b)(1).  
 
Lacking
a proper declaration of translation in English, Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiff’s declaration are SUSTAINED.
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Anahi
Contreras
 
            Defendant
also objects to the Declaration of Anahi Contreras in support of the opposition
to the motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows.
 
            Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED as irrelevant. (Evid. Code § 350.)
 
            Objection
No. 2: SUSTAINED as lacking foundation. (Evid Code § 403; see also Rule of
Court 3.1110(g).)
 
//
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of persuasion to establish the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense.
(Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
As to the burden of production,
rather than persuasion, courts have articulated a three-step burden shifting
process: 
 
First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy.” [citation] The moving party “can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.” [citation] Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. [citations] For this step, “it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” [citation] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is
required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.
 
If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement. [citation] The opposing party can
do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath
or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [citations]
 
If the opposing party meets its burden
of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. [citation].
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66.)
 
Here, Defendant seeks to compel
arbitration based on an English “Arbitration Agreement” authorizing binding
arbitration of any claims concerning Raul Arellano’s employment with Tawa
Supermarket. (Defendant’s Exh. A. p.1.) Defendant has provided a copy of the
agreement which appears to bear Plaintiff’s handwritten signature and is dated
March 8, 2103. (Id. p.2.) Although Plaintiff challenges the
enforceability of this agreement, he does not dispute its veracity. 
 
The Court therefore finds that
there is an agreement to arbitrate between Defendant and the Plaintiff. 
 
//
Applicability of
the FAA
 
Defendant argues that the Federal
Arbitration Act governs the arbitration agreement at issue. 
 
An arbitration clause is governed
by the FAA if the agreement is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly construe” this phrase, because the
FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide for the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1286.) “FAA preemption does not require that an agreement has a specific effect
on interstate commerce.” (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 293.) 
 
Defendant contends that the
Agreement is governed by the FAA because interstate commerce is implicated by
Defendant’s business and by Plaintiff’s role within that business.
Specifically, Defendant states that it is a national supermarket chain
operating various supermarkets in at least 10 other states, plus California.
(Declaration of Patrick Chen ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Defendant also contends that it
regularly purchases groceries from businesses outside of California to sell at
its U.S. and California locations. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff, during his
employment, worked as a clerk in the produce department of one of these
California retail locations. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant has not demonstrated the involvement of interstate commerce
because Plaintiff only worked in Southern California, and because Defendant’s
evidentiary showing is insufficient, relying on Lane v. Francis Capital
Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, and Hoover v.
American Income Life Insurance Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193. As
Defendant argues, however, both cases are distinguishable. In Lane, the
record established that the defendant exclusively operated in California and
produced no evidence regarding the nature of its business. (Lane v. Francis
Capital Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 688.) Similarly,
in Hoover, the Court of Appeal’s ruling turned on the conclusion that
the “only established facts [were] that Hoover was a California resident who
sold life insurance policies” and that the corporation was based in Texas. (Hoover
v. American Income Life Insurance Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193,
1207-1208.) Here, however, Defendant has offered evidence tending to establish that
it regularly engages in interstate commerce as its business and that
Plaintiff’s employment directly relates to that business. Under the broad
construction of the phrase “evidencing a transaction involving commerce,” the
Court finds that Defendant has offered sufficient evidence that the FAA
applies. 
 
Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
 
             “The scope of arbitration is a matter of
agreement between the parties.” (See, e.g., Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy,
Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323.) “A
party can be compelled to arbitrate only those issues it has agreed to
arbitrate.” (Perez v. U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 408,
419.)
 
Defendants contend that the
arbitration agreement delegates questions of the scope, validity, and
enforceability of the agreement to the arbitrator. “The parties may, by clear
and unmistakable agreement, elect to have the arbitrator, rather than the court,
decide which grievances are arbitrable.” (Rodriguez v. American
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1123.) Paragraph 5 of the
Agreement states that “[a]ny controversy over whether a dispute is an
arbitrable dispute or as to the interpretation or enforceability of this
Agreement shall be determined by the arbitrator.” (Defendant’s Exh. A. ¶ 5.)
Defendant argues that this provision is a “clear and unmistakable agreement” to
delegate questions of arbitrability and enforceability. Plaintiff does not
address the delegation clause in his opposition. The Court concurs with
Defendant that the Agreement contains a “clear and unmistakable” delegation
clause.  
 
The Court also observes that
Plaintiff challenges the enforceability of the entire Agreement as
unconscionable, but does not directly address the delegation clause. A
delegation clause is enforceable unless it is revocable under the same defenses
as any contract, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (See, e.g., Tiri
v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 242.) However, “any
claim of unconscionability must be specific to the delegation clause.” (Id.
at 244 [emphasis in original].) Because Plaintiff has failed to assert a claim
of unconscionability specific to the delegation clause, the Court is
bound to enforce the agreement pursuant to the delegation provision that
questions of arbitrability or enforceability must themselves be arbitrated. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            This
action is STAYED pending resolution of the arbitration.
 
            The
Court sets a Status Conference Re: Arbitration for Monday, December 8, 2025 at
8:30 AM. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
//
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 10,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 