

Hearing Date:             May 22, 2024
Case Name:                 Westlake
Services, LLC v. Chaim Perl
Case No.:                    24STCV00706
Motions:                      Defendant Chaim Perl’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC’s First Amended Complaint
Moving
Party:             Defendant Chaim Perl
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Westlake Services,
LLC, dba Westlake Financial Services

Tentative
Ruling:      SUSTAIN with leave to
amend.
 

 
Background
 
            This is a breach of contract case.  Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC dba Westlake
Financial Services (“Plaintiff”) contends Defendant Chaim Perl (“Defendant”)
owes Plaintiff  $51,177.01 in connection
with a Master Dealer Agreement entered into on August 11, 2020.  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant and Does 1 to 10, alleging causes of action for breach of
contract and common counts.  On March 14,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging
the same causes of action against Defendant and Does 1 to 10.
 
On April 15, 2024, Defendant demurred to the FAC. On May 6, 2024,
Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. On May 15, 2024, Defendant replied.
 
Discussion
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)
 
            First Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract
 
To state a cause of action for breach
of contract, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “’(1) the contract,
(2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.’
[Citation.]” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause
of action in the FAC for breach of contract on the grounds that it fails to
allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.  Defendant contends the FAC fails to allege the
underlying facts necessary to have triggered Defendant’s alleged breach. Defendant
contends the Master Dealer Agreement (the “Agreement”) describes 32 different
warranties and representations related to the financing of vehicles thereunder,
and that the FAC does not allege any facts indicating which one of those
warranties or representations was purportedly breached. Defendant contends the
FAC contains no description of the terms of the sale to the third party
purchaser in this matter, Tiffany Hill, or any description of what she did that
may have caused Defendant to breach the Master Dealer Agreement. Defendant also
contends the FAC fails to allege facts showing how Plaintiff calculated its
alleged damages of more than $51,000.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends
to have alleged all necessary facts to state a cause of action for breach of
contract. Plaintiff notes that it attached a copy of the Agreement to the FAC,
and argues that the FAC alleges Defendant breached the Agreement on
approximately May 12, 2023 by failing to make the payments required thereunder.
Plaintiff argues that the FAC alleges Plaintiff performed all of its
obligations or was otherwise excused, and that Plaintiff was harmed in the
amount of $51,177.01, plus costs and attorney fees. Plaintiff contends it
already it amended the purported issue with the original complaint regarding
the name of the customer involved in the original transaction and related
details, and any disputes regarding these details are best reserved for trial,
not a demurrer.
 
The Court finds the FAC fails to
allege sufficient facts demonstrating a breach of contract. While the FAC
alleges that Defendant sold a vehicle to the third party, Tiffany Hill, and
that Plaintiff financed that sale, it does not allege any facts indicating what
actions Defendant engaged in to trigger an alleged breach. (FAC, ¶ BC-2.) It
merely alleges in a conclusory fashion that, “[d]ue to a breach of the
representations and warranties in the Master Dealer Agreement, Defendant was
required to buy-back the loan.” (Id.) This is insufficiently specific. Paragraph
6 of the Agreement provides the conditions under which Defendant may be
obligated to repurchase and take reassignment of the loan, such as the customer
failing to pay as agreed. (Id., Ex. A, ¶ 6.) The Agreement makes clear
that there must be a triggering event before Plaintiff proceeds to make
a demand on Defendant to repurchase a loan. (Id., italics added.) Thus,
it is not enough for Plaintiff to have made a demand for repurchase against
Defendant; Plaintiff needs to allege the specific obligation identified in the
Agreement that forms the predicate basis upon which Plaintiff can even make the
demand for repayment. (See Id.; Byrne v. Harvey (1962) 211
Cal.App.2d 92, 113, italics in original [“‘If a condition precedent imposed by
the contract is an act to be performed by the
plaintiff he may allege such performance in general terms. ... But if the
condition is an event which must happen before the
defendant's duty of performance accrues, a specific allegation
of the happening of the condition is a necessary part of the pleading of the
defendant's breach.’ [Citation.]”)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
the demurrer to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action – Common Counts
 
“[A] common count, to be sufficiently
pleaded, must state not only the indebtedness of the defendant but also
directly or impliedly the relationship or the express or implied legal
principle upon which a promise to plaintiff is predicated.” (Vaughn v. Certified Life Ins. Co. of Cal. (1965) 238
Cal.App.2d 177, 181.) While common count claims are
generally not subject to demurrer, they are subject to demurrer when they are
based on the same facts as the specifically pleaded claims. (Orloff v.
Metropolitan Trust Co. (1941) 17 Cal.2d 484, 489.)
 
Defendant
demurs to the Second Cause of Action for common counts on the grounds that the
FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain. Defendant contends the Second Cause of Action is based on the same facts
as the First Cause of Action for breach of contract and therefore fails.
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address this argument.
 
The Court finds the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts
to state a cause of action for common counts. The Court agrees with Defendant
that the Second Cause of Action for common counts is based on the same facts
since they seek the exact same amount of money, i.e., $51,177.01. (See FAC, ¶¶
BC-4, CC-2.) The Court further construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to this
argument as a tacit admission that it is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action in the First Amended
Complaint.  Plaintiff shall serve and
file its amended complaint on or before June 21, 2024.
 
 
 