..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary:

```
Case Number: 22TRCV00738
Plaintiff's Name: Isako Nam, Emi Nam
Defendant's Name: Manhattan House, L.P., Adam Hersh, David Topkins
People-Names: Isako Nam, Emi Nam, Adam Hersh, David Topkins
Company-Names: Manhattan House, L.P.
Places: Manhattan Beach, CA, 90266
Dates: August 26, 2022, December 27, 2018
Events: Breach of Contract, Breach of Written Guaranty
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek a preferential trial setting
Facts: Plaintiffs own real property, Defendant leased the property, Defendant stopped making payments
Disputes: Plaintiffs' motion for preferential trial setting
Acts: Plaintiffs moved for preferential trial setting, Defendant opposed the motion
Agreements: Code of Civil Procedure section 36
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure section 36, Code of Civil Procedure section 36.5
Case Citations: Salas v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., Rice v. Superior Court, Koch-Ash v. Superior Court
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a), Code of Civil Procedure section 36.5
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Trustee
Significant Statements: Plaintiffs failed to submit competent evidence, Plaintiffs' motion is denied without prejudice
```

And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

"The court denied the Plaintiffs' motion for a preferential trial setting without prejudice. The court found that the Plaintiffs failed to submit competent evidence that the Plaintiff Isako Nam is over the age of 70 and has a substantial interest in the action. The court also noted that the Plaintiffs failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 36(c)(1) by not serving the Defendant with process or having them appear in court. The court further noted that the Plaintiffs failed to submit a first-hand declaration from Isako Nam and instead relied on hearsay statements from her co-trustee Emi Nam. The court also questioned the competency of Isako Nam to act as a trustee given her claimed declining mental and physical health. The court ordered the Defendant to give notice of this ruling."
