  Case Number:  22TRCV00738    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Monday, April 15, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 7  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Isako
Nam, et al. v. Manhattan House, L.P., et al.   
22TRCV00738
1.     
Isako Nam, et
al.’s Motion for Trial Preference  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Isako Nam, et al.’s Motion for Trial Preference is denied
without prejudice.   
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs Isako Nam and Emi Nam, Co-Trustees of The
Frank H.C. Nam Bypass Trust Dated December 27, 2018; Isako Nam and Emi Nam,
Co-Trustees of the Frank H.C. Nam Family Trust Dated December 27, 2018 filed
the Complaint on August 26, 2022. Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs own real property located at 1019
Manhattan Beach Blvd., Manhattan Beach, CA, 90266. In 2014, Defendant Manhattan
House, L.P. entered into a lease for the premises. In 2015, Defendants Adam
Hersh and David Topkins signed a guaranty of lease. In 2020, Manhattan House
stopped making payments and thus Defendants were in breach of the lease. Plaintiffs
allege the following causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of
Written Guaranty.  
 
Motion for Preferential Trial Date
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36 states, in relevant
part:
 
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action
as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference
is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.
(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,
the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date
and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the
motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party's
attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance
shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”
 
CCP § 36.5 states: “An affidavit submitted in support
of a motion for Preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by
the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief
as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.”
 
“[T]he decision to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344. “Where a party meets
the requisite standard for calendar preference under subdivision (a),
preference must be granted. No weighing of interests is involved.” Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 535 (granting the mandatory
motion for trial preference and disregarding Defendant’s arguments that the
Court must balance the interests of the parties, and, further commenting that
arguments regarding due process concerns were baseless). “We conclude that
section 36, subdivision (a), as construed by this court in Rice v. Superior
Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81 [185 Cal.Rptr. 853], is mandatory and
absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise the
inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have.” Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692
(reversing the trial Court’s order to stay an action which was entitled to a
mandatory trial preference and commenting that when an individual qualifies for
a preference under Section 36(a) no discretion is afforded to the Court to deny
a preference). 
 
Plaintiffs move for a trial preference pursuant to CCP
§ 36(a), based on Plaintiff Isako Nam’s age and health condition. Plaintiffs’
motion is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiffs failed to submit competent evidence that
Plaintiff Isako Nam is over the age of 70 and that she has a substantial
interest in this action. Isako Nam submitted no first-hand declaration. Instead,
the only evidence submitted in support of this motion from co-trustee Emi Nam
consists of hearsay statements with respect to Isako Nam’s age and interest in
the litigation. 
 
Plaintiffs refer to CCP § 36.5 which states: “An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a)
of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party. The affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other than a motion
for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36.” Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.
However, this provision, by its very language concerning medical diagnosis and
prognosis, only applies to the medical health component of Section 36(a)(2) and
not Section 36(a)(1). In addition, the Court notes that the only declaration
submitted in support of this motion was by a co-trustee Emi Nam, who, while
purporting to also be an attorney, is not counsel of record in this case. 
 
Emi Nam contends that Isako Nam’s declining mental and
physical health has rendered her incapable of submitting her own declaration. Plaintiffs
provide no authority to support the position that such factors provide grounds
to allow her to not submit a declaration in support of Section 36(a)(1). In any
event, there are other methods to provide competent evidence to support Section
36(a)(1) such as by providing documentary evidence supported by proper
foundation. In addition, as an aside, Emi Nam’s admission regarding Isako Nam’s
mental and physical condition also places into question Isako Nam’s competency
to act as a co-trustee to the Trust. Interestingly, in addressing this argument
raised by Defendant’s opposition, in the Reply, Plaintiffs are adamant that
Isako Nam is competent to act as a Trustee. Plaintiffs state that Isako Nam is
competent so long as she has “assistance.” If this is true, it is not clear why
Isako Nam could not complete a declaration, “with assistance,” attesting to her
own age and interest in the litigation. It would be difficult to believe that
an individual could exercise the type of discretion and mental capacity needed
to act as a trustee to a trust yet still be unable to complete a simple
declaration attesting to her own age and interest in the litigation.
 
Finally, Plaintiffs failed to comply with CCP §
36(c)(1) which states: “(c) Unless the court otherwise orders: (1) A party may
file and serve a motion for preference supported by a declaration of the moving
party that all essential parties have been served with process or have
appeared.” Code Civ. Proc., § 36(c)(1).
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preferential Trial
Setting is denied without prejudice. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.