 On July 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Robert Valencia and Brandie Garcia, individually and as successors-in-interest to Justin Reed Valencia, filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Behavioral Health Services, Inc. for (1) dependent adult abuse, (2) neglect per se, (3) wrongful death based on dependent adult abuse and/or neglect per se, (4) negligence, (5) wrongful death based on negligence, (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”), and (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Justin Valencia was a drug addict who checked into Defendant’s 24-hour rehabilitation center.  While there, Valencia ingested meth, heroin, and fentanyl.  He told this to Defendant’s staff and complained of chest pain.  Despite knowing his risk of overdose, the staff told Valencia to sleep it off.  Valencia then died of an overdose. On August 11, 2022, the Court sustained a demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action, without leave to amend.Defendant Behavioral Health Services, Inc. now seeks summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all remaining causes of action.  The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Dependent Adult Abuse & Wrongful Death based on Abuse Defendant first argues that there is no evidence of neglect and that Defendant was not providing the requisite custodial services to Plaintiff.For the purposes of the Welfare & Institutions Code, neglect refers to “the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.”  (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34.)  Defendants may only be held liable under Welfare & Institutions Code § 15657 where the misconduct alleged is reckless, oppressive, fraudulent or malicious in nature.  (Id. at p. 31.)  Recklessness may be inferred from the Defendant’s failure to follow a medical care plan and make basic observations about the patient.  (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90 [“[W]e easily conclude that there is a triable issue as to whether [defendant’s] employees acted with recklessness, oppression or malice. A trier of fact could find that when a care facility's employees ignore a care plan and fail to check the skin condition of a resident with Huntington's Chorea, such conduct shows deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that she will suffer injury.”].)  The following are a few examples of when courts have found liability: • A skilled nursing facility: (1) failed to provide an elderly man suffering from Parkinson's disease with sufficient food and water and necessary medication; (2) left him unattended and unassisted for long periods of time; (3) left him in his own excrement so that ulcers exposing muscle and bone became infected; and (4) misrepresented and failed to inform his children of his true condition. (Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 778 [11 Cal.Rptr.3d 222, 86 P.3d 290].)• An 88–year–old woman with a broken ankle “was frequently left lying in her own urine and feces for extended periods of time”; and she developed pressure ulcers on her ankles, feet and buttocks that exposed bone, “despite plaintiff's persistent complaints to nursing staff, administration, and finally, to a nursing home ombudsman.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 27, 41 [82 Cal.Rptr.2d 610, 971 P.2d 986].)• A facility caring for a dependent adult with a known condition causing progressive dementia, requiring nutrition and hydration through a gastrostomy tube, and subjecting her to skin deterioration, ignored a medical care plan requiring the facility to check the dependent adult's skin on a daily basis and failed to notify a physician when pressure ulcers and other skin lesions developed. (Sababin, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at pp. 83–87, 90 [50 Cal.Rptr.3d 266].)(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (1986) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405-406.) Further, as mentioned, there must be a “robust caretaking or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of an elder's basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  (Winn v. Pioneer Med. Grp., Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 158.) Here, Plaintiffs’ claim is primarily supported by the contention that Abel Rodriguez reported to Defendant that Justin was gasping for air while intoxicated, but Defendants chose to do nothing.  However, Rodriguez’s statements from within the attached police report, the autopsy report, and depositions of other individuals constitutes hearsay and is inadmissible.  Plaintiffs’ declaration confirms that they could not locate Rodriguez for a deposition.  That is, there is no admissible evidence that Defendant knew that Justin was suffering from an overdose or other worrisome symptoms but intentionally chose not to take action.  Furthermore, that Defendant did not realize that Justin had obtained drugs or that he was later suffering an overdose does not rise to the level of reckless neglect under the circumstances here.  Thus, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the abuse-based claims.Negligence and Wrongful Death based on NegligenceDefendant argues that the negligence-based claims fail because they have submitted an expert opinion that Defendant acted with reasonable care and that their actions did not cause Justin’s injuries.   Plaintiffs did not submit an expert declaration but instead argue that their claim is not for professional negligence, but rather ordinary negligence.Negligence requires duty, breach of duty, proximate causation, and damages.  (N.N.V. v. American Assn. of Blood Banks (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1402.) Defendant runs a 24-hour rehabilitation facility but could not determine that Justin was suffering from an overdose that caused pulmonary edema and congestion.  (See Autopsy Report.)  They themselves have not put forth evidence of how frequently Justin was monitored for the night and morning of the subject incident.  Defendant’s expert does not discuss the night of the incident at all, only the preceding events.  Defendant failed to carry its burden.  The Motion is denied as to all negligence-based claims.Neglect Per Se and Wrongful Death based on Same “[T]he doctrine of negligence per se is an evidentiary presumption rather than an independent right of action . . . .”  (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Ctr. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1286.)  “Many attorneys improperly plead ‘negligence per se’ as a theory separate from ordinary negligence.”  (Elder Neglect, Physical Abuse and Abandonment, Elder Abuse Litigation Ch. 9.)   Plaintiffs’ “per se” claims are just a component of the negligence cause of action, and the Court cannot summarily adjudicate theories that would not eliminate an entire cause of action or claim for damages.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(1).)  In sum, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted only as to the abuse-based claims.  The objections are overruled, except as to the hearsay discussed herein.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 