 Case Number:  23SMCV03800    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 22, 2024, continued to June 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03800




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Angela Shalome Streat Wilson




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant The Regents of the University of California



 
MOTION
 
            On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff Angela
Shalome Streat Wilson (“Plaintiff” or “Wilson”) brought suit against Defendant
The Regents of the University of California (“Defendant”) alleging two causes
of action for (1) elder abuse and (2) negligence.   
 
On December 15, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the
first cause of action for elder abuse on the grounds that Plaintiff did not
allege specific facts demonstrating Defendant neglected Plaintiff with
knowledge that injury was substantially certain or with conscious disregard of
the high probability of such injury and Plaintiff did not allege any specific
harm or damages Plaintiff suffered as a result of Defendant’s alleged neglect.  (See Minute Order of December 15, 2023.) 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend the complaint
to reassert the elder abuse cause of action and to seek punitive, exemplary and
treble damages, and attorneys’ fees.  On
March 14, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion without prejudice on
procedural grounds.
 
            On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
another motion for leave to amend the complaint to reassert an elder abuse
cause of action and a prayer for punitive, exemplary, and treble damages and
attorneys’ fees.  Defendant opposed the
motion and Plaintiff replied.  
 
            At the hearing on April 22, 2024, in
light of the Plaintiff’s death, the Court continued the hearing to allow the
parties to submit supplemental briefing on the issue of substituting Megan
Frilot (“Frilot”) as the Successor in Interest to Angela Shalome Streat
Wilson.  Defendant filed a supplemental
opposition brief, and Plaintiff has filed a supplemental reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars;
and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
has provided the Declaration of Stephen M. Garcia.  Although the Garcia declaration indicates the
proposed first amended complaint (“FAC”) is attached as Exhibit 15, only twelve
exhibits are attached to the Garcia declaration, and the proposed first amended
complaint is not among the attached exhibits. 
However, Plaintiff corrects this deficiency by attaching the proposed
FAC to a Reply declaration.  The proposed
FAC indicates the additions from the original complaint in bold. 
 
            The Garcia declaration further
indicates that on December 21, 2023, Plaintiff was hit and killed by a car,
which Plaintiff’s daughter (Megan Frilot) first became aware of on January 24,
2024.  (Garcia Decl. ¶ 6.)  The Garcia declaration further indicates
Plaintiff did not receive her medical records (which total 1013 pages) from
Defendant until November 20, 2023.  (Id.
at ¶ 7.)   
 
            The records indicate (1) Defendant was
aware Plaintiff was under a conservatorship; (2) Defendant noted in Plaintiff’s
medical records over 100 times that Plaintiff required placement in a locked
facility; (3) Plaintiff was only provided a 1:1 sitter on the first day of her
admission to the emergency department of the hospital; (4) Plaintiff’s records
indicated Plaintiff required six weeks of IV antibiotics as a medical
necessity; and (5) ten days after Plaintiff was admitted, Defendant developed a
care plan, which included moving patient adjacent to the nurse’s station if
possible, and to keep Plaintiff’s door and curtain open for a direct line of
view to Plaintiff.  (Garcia Decl. ¶ 7.)  The records further indicate that at 6:42 pm
on August 2, Plaintiff became agitated, requesting to go home, and tried to
walk out of the unit, so the hospital gave Plaintiff 1 mg of Ativan.  At 7:14 pm, a nurse’s note indicates
Plaintiff could not be found.  (Ibid.)
 
            The Garcia declaration also
indicates it was unable to obtain and analyze Defendant’s December 15, 2023
deposition transcript until mid-January 2024; the Long Beach Police Department
did not comply with a subpoena until March 18, 2024; the Los Angeles Police
Department did not comply with a subpoena until March 20, 2024; and the UCLA
Police Department did not comply with a subpoena until March 14, 2024.  (Garcia Decl. ¶¶ 8-11.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has demonstrated
that she discovered new facts that (1) Defendant failed to keep a constant line
of sight on Plaintiff, in contravention of Plaintiff’s care plan; and (2) as a
result, Plaintiff eloped from the hospital and was ultimately struck by a car
and died on December 21, 2023.
 
            In Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, the appellate court held that the
failure to implement aspects of a patient’s care plan could rise to the level
of recklessness.  Whether Defendant’s
conduct actually rises to the level of recklessness is a question of fact for
later stages of the litigation.
 
            In opposition,
Defendant argues (1) since Plaintiff has now died, counsel must move the court
to allow Plaintiff’s successor in interest or personal representative to
continue litigating the matter on Plaintiff’s behalf; (2) the medical records
upon which Plaintiff bases the proposed amendments have been in Plaintiff’s
possession since November 20, 2023; and (3) Defendant will be prejudiced by the
delay if Plaintiff is allowed to amend by an increased cost and burden of discovery
and potentially a trial delay.
 
            Delay &
Prejudice
 
            Although the
medical records have been in Plaintiff’s possession since November 20, they
were voluminous and necessarily took some time to review and analyze,
especially given the end of year holidays. 
Further, Plaintiff’s family was not even aware of Plaintiff’s death
until January, and Plaintiff’s counsel did not have all relevant police records
until March 2024.
 
            As such, the
Court does not find Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing the instant
motion.
 
            Moreover, with
respect to prejudice, “the fact that the amendment involves a change in
legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing
party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            Therefore, the motion for leave to
amend is substantively proper.
 
            Plaintiff’s Successor in
Interest
 
            “A pending action or proceeding does
not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.)  “On motion after the death of a person who
commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or
proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Id. at § 377.31.)  
 
(a) The person who seeks to commence an
action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent’s successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an
affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this
state stating all of the following:
 
(1) The decedent’s name.
 
(2) The date and place of the decedent’s
death.
 
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate.”
 
(4) If the decedent’s estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
 
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate,
with facts in support thereof:
 
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
 
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized
to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
 
(6) “No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding.”
 
(7) “The affiant or declarant affirms or
declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California
that the foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(b) Where more than one person executes the
affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements required by
subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact.
 
(c) A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
            
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32.)  
 
            Here, in connection with the Reply,
Plaintiff has provided the Declaration of Megan Frilot as Successor in Interest
to Angela Shalome Streat Wilson, which indicates:
 
1. I am the daughter of the decedent ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON, who passed away on December 21, 2023 in Long Beach,
California (a certified copy of Ms. Wilson’s death certificate is attached as
Exhibit “1”). 
 
2. I am the beneficiary of the estate of my
mother, ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON, the decedent in the above-captioned
litigation. I am authorized to act on behalf of the decedent as the Successor
in Interest as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure with respect to the decedent in the action. 
 
3. No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent's estate. 
 
4. No other persons have a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding. 
 
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws
of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed
this 01/24/2024 PST, at Moreno Valley, California.        
 
(Frilot
Decl.)  Attached to the Frilot
declaration is a copy of the city of Long Beach certificate of death for
Plaintiff.  As such, the Frilot
declaration satisfies all of the criteria required under section 377.32.
 
            In the supplemental Opposition,
Defendant argues Frilot does not meet the statutory criteria of being the
“sole” beneficiary or “sole person” to succeed to Plaintiff’s causes of action because
Frilot revealed in deposition testimony that Plaintiff had at least two, and
potentially four or five other biological children who, like Frilot, Plaintiff
lost custody through the juvenile dependency system – an older sister and at
least one younger sibling, and Plaintiff may have had a spouse at the time of
her death.  
            
            Moreover, because Frilot was adopted
by another family around the age of 10, Defendant argues the adoption severed
the parent-child relationship for purposes of Frilot’s standing with regard to
the decedent’s estate. Frilot does not address this second issue in the Reply
briefing.
 
            Taking Defendant’s second argument
first – that Frilot’s adoption around the age of 10 severed the parent-child
relationship, Probate Code section 6451 provides:
 
 (a) An
adoption severs the relationship of parent and child between an adopted person
and a natural parent of the adopted person unless both of the following
requirements are satisfied:
 
(1) The natural parent and the adopted person
lived together at any time as parent and child, or the natural parent was
married to or cohabiting with the other natural parent at the time the person
was conceived and died before the person’s birth.
 
(2) The adoption was by the spouse of either of
the natural parents or after the death of either of the natural parents.
 
(Prob.
Code, § 6451, subd. (a); see also Welf. & Inst. Code, § 366.26; Jackson
v. Fitzgibbons (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 329, 334 [“An order terminating
parental rights severs the parent-child relationship and extinguishes all
rights and obligations between the child and his or her parents”].)  
 
            Here, the deposition transcript
demonstrates Frilot was adopted when she was nine years old:
 
Q. Is -- is Angela Wilson your biological mother?

A. Yes. 
Q. Who were you adopted by? 
A. A family from social services, but -- however,
they lost custody of me and that was dissolved in two thousand and I think '5
or maybe '4. 
Q. At what age were you adopted? 
A. A month away from ten. 
 
(Deposition
of Megan Frilot, Ex. 1 at p. 15:4-11.)
 
            Thus, the parent-child relationship
between Frilot and Wilson was severed by virtue of Frilot’s adoption,
notwithstanding that the purported dissolution of the adoption.  As such, Defendant’s evidence shows that Frilot
is not an heir to (or beneficiary of) Wilson’s estate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.11, and Frilot does not address or refute this point.  As a result Frilot lacks standing[1] to
be a proper successor in interest for Plaintiff in this action.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to amend as Frilot is not a proper successor in interest to
Plaintiff.  
 
Further, because Plaintiff is deceased and no successor in interest
has been named to prosecute the action, the Court continues the following
motions for hearing to September 25, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207:
 
·      
Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
(Form Interrogatories)
·      
Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
(Special Interrogatories)
·      
Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
(Requests for Production of Documents)
·      
Motion to Quash Business Records Subpoena (Set
for Hearing - June 25, 2024)
·      
Motion to Quash Business Records Subpoena (Set
for Hearing – July 1, 2024)
 
            In addition, the Court sets a Status
Conference re Successor In Interest to Plaintiff on September 25, 2024 at 8:30
A.M. in Department 207.  Plaintiff shall
file a Status Report no later than 5 court days before the scheduled Status
Conference.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  June 25, 2024                                 ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court


