 Case Number:  22STCV25735    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MELAD NAYEF HADDAD, et al.,  
  
        
  vs.
 
LIGHTNING CONSTRUCTION, et al.


 Case
  No.:  22STCV25735
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 26, 2024



 
Patricia Rodriguez’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Ricardo Rios is granted.
Patricia
Rodriguez’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Hayrapet Hakopchrkyan is granted.

 
On
August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Melad Haddad (“Melad”) and Basimah Haddad
(“Basimah”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed their operative Complaint
against Defendants Lightning Construction (“Lightning”), Hayrapet Hakopchrkyan
aka Hayko Hakopchrkyan (“Hakopchrkyan”), and Ricardo Rios (“Rios”)
(collectively, “Defendants”).  On
September 28, 2022, Hakopchrkyan filed his Answer.  On November 7, 2022, Plaintiffs entered
default against Lightning.  On June 26,
2023, Plaintiffs entered default against Rios. 
Rios filed his answer on June 27, 2023. 
On September 1, 2023, this Court granted parties’ stipulation to set
aside the default entered against Rios.
On
March 15, 2024, Hakopchrkyan’s and Rios’ counsel, Patricia Rodriguez, filed the
instant Motions to be Relieved as Counsel.
Trial
is set for May 13, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a
motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and
it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
1.     Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel- Rios
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
a declaration stating a there is a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship.  (See Decl. of Rodriguez.)  Counsel has indicated that Rios was served
with copies of the motion papers filed with the declaration at Rios’ last known
address and has been unable to confirm that the address is current or locate a
more current address for Rios after mailing the motion to Rios’ last known
address with a return receipt requested, calling Rios’ last known telephone
number, and contacting persons familiar with Rios such as Hakopchrkyan.  (See Decl. of Rodriguez ¶3.)
 
Conclusion
Patricia Rodriguez’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Ricardo Rios is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.     Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel- Hakopchrkyan
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
a declaration stating a there is a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship.  (See Decl. of Rodriguez.)  Counsel has indicated that Hakopchrkyan was
served with copies of the motion papers filed with the declaration at Hakopchrkyan’s
last known address and has been unable to confirm that the address is current
or locate a more current address for Hakopchrkyan after mailing the motion to
Hakopchrkyan’s last known address with a return receipt requested, calling
Hakopchrkyan’s last known telephone number, and contacting persons familiar
with Hakopchrkyan such as Rios.  (See
Decl. of Rodriguez ¶3.)
 
Conclusion
Patricia Rodriguez’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel for Hayrapet Hakopchrkyan is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  April _____, 2024
                                                                             





  