 Case Number:  BC482598    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion Re Order to Show Cause Re
Sanctions Previously Set
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Creditor Samsum Shadanloo
Resp. Party:    Judgment Debtor Ehsan Bashi
                                    
 
 
The Motion re Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
        Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor
of Judgment Debtor and against Judgment Creditor and Judgment Creditor’s
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $550.00. 
 
The Bench Warrant on Judgment Debtor is QUASHED. 
 
         “Judgement
Debtor Ehsan Bashi Concise Supplemental Briefing” (i.e., the Motion for
Reconsideration of the December 18, 2023 Award of Monetary Sanctions Against
Judgment Debtor and Judgment Debtor’s Counsel”) is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
I.         
Pre-Judgment Background
 
On April 11, 2012,
Plaintiff Samsum Shadanloo filed his Complaint against Defendant 6623 Hollywood
Cherokee, LLC (erroneously sued as SBE Entertainment Group, LLC) on causes of
action arising from an assault and battery against Plaintiff at Defendant’s
nightclub. 
 
On August 13, 2012,
Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On December 28, 2012,
Plaintiff amended his Complaint to substitute Doe 1 with Ehsan Bashi. 
 
On March 13, 2013, by
request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed with prejudice Defendant
6623 Hollywood Cherokee, LLC from the FAC. 
 
On July 31, 2013, the
Court granted 6623 Hollywood Cherokee, LLC’s application for determination of
good faith settlement. 
 
On May 1, 2014, the
Court held a trial in this matter. The Court found in favor of Plaintiff and
against Defendant Ehsan Bashi on a cause of action for battery. 
 
On May 23, 2014, the
Court entered judgment in this matter. After an offset from the good faith
settlement of 6623 Hollywood Cherokee, LLC, the Court awarded total damages of
$27,099.00 in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant Ehsan Bashi, plus
accrued interest at the legal rate.
 
II.       Post-Judgment
Background
 
On multiple occasions
since Judgment was entered in this matter, Plaintiff (now Judgment Creditor)
has moved to have Defendant Ehsan Bashi (now Judgment Debtor) appear for
examination. 
 
Suffice it to say
that Judgment Debtor has resisted and continues to resist examination. (See
Minute Order dated August 3, 2023, p. 6 [“Defendant has for several months
undertaken herculean efforts to resist being forced to sit for a debtor’s
examination — including, but not limited to challenging service, moving to
reconsider when the challenge to service was rejected, filing a separate action
against Plaintiff, filing this motion to stay enforcement of the judgment in
the Main Action, asking for a live evidentiary hearing on the motion to stay,
and submitting numerous ex parte applications.”].)
 
On August 3, 2023,
the Court denied Judgment Debtor’s Motion for Temporary Stay [on] Judgment
Enforcement Pending Disposition of Pending Civil Matter (“Motion to Stay
Judgment”), which was filed on July 3, 2023. 
 
On December 18, 2023,
the Court denied Judgment Debtor’s Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment. The Court
awarded monetary sanctions in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment
Debtor and Judgment Debtor’s Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount
of $1,500.00.
 
On December 21, 2023,
Judgment Creditor filed Judicial Council Form EJ-100, Acknowledgment of Full
Satisfaction of Judgment. 
 
On January 8, 2024,
Judgment Creditor filed Motion re Order to Show Cause Re Sanctions Previously
Set by Judge Ellis (“Motion Re Sanctions”). In support of his Motion Re
Sanctions, Judgment Creditor concurrently filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; (2) Declaration of Evertt J. Gotfredson; and (3) Proof of Service.

 
On January 18, 2024,
Judgment Debtor filed a document which included three items: (1) Opposition to
Judgment Debtor’s Motion Re Sanctions; (2) Request for Monetary Sanctions for
Frivolous Opposition; and (3) Supplemental Briefing Concerning the Continued
Sanctions Issue from December 18, 2023 Tentative Ruling (“Opposition”). In
support of his Opposition, Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration
of Paymon John Vafa; and (2) Declaration of Ehsan Bashi. 
 
On January 22, 2024,
Judgment Creditor filed his Reply in support of his Motion Re Sanctions. 
 
On January 22, 2024,
Judgment Debtor filed his Concise Supplemental Briefing Concerning C.C.P. §
128.5 Sanctions from December 18, 2024. 
 
On January 24, 2024,
Judgment Debtor filed his Status Conference Statement. 
 
On January 25, 2024,
Judgment Debtor filed his Exhibits. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion Re
Sanctions
 
Judgment Creditor moves the Court for an order to show cause regarding
sanctions, which had been set last year by the prior judicial officer hearing
this matter because Judgment Debtor had not appeared at prior debtor’s
examinations. (Motion Re Sanctions, p. 2:2–12.)
 
The issue of sanctions for failure to pay at debtor’s examinations is
moot. Judgment Debtor has paid the Judgment in full, which Judgment Creditor
has already acknowledged. Because the point of monetary sanctions for failure
to appear at a debtor’s examination are ultimately to have a judgment debtor
satisfy the judgment, there is no longer a reason to issue monetary sanctions
for that purpose, much less for the Court to issue an order to show cause
regarding sanctions. 
 
        The Court agrees with Judgment Debtor
that the Motion re Sanctions — which is barely more than one page in substance
—is a frivolous motion. If Judgment Creditor sought attorney’s fees for work
done to satisfy the Judgment, Judgment Creditor should have filed such a
motion. (See Decl. Gotfredson, ¶ 3.) But seeking monetary sanctions against Judgment
Debtor for failing to appear at debtor’s examinations after Judgment Debtor has
satisfied the Judgment is not the appropriate procedural avenue for such
relief. 
 
        Judgment Debtor requests monetary
sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5. (Opposition, p.
13:17–22.)
 
“A trial court
may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration
proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of
Part 3.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)
 
        Given the frivolous nature of the Motion
re Sanctions, the Court orders Judgment Creditor and Judgment Creditor’s
Counsel to pay reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred “as a
result of” the frivolous Motion re Sanctions. 
 
        Judgment Debtor’s Counsel declares that
they have spent 19.90 hours in responding to the Motion Re Sanctions. (Decl.
Vafa, ¶ 53.) According to their time sheet, they charge $550.00 per hour.
(Decl. Vafa, Exh. 15.)
 
        While the hourly rate requested is
reasonable, the number of hours spent on the Opposition was not reasonable. Although
the Opposition was long, most of it was irrelevant to the issues at hand. The
Court will award fees for one hour of work at the hourly rate of $550.00. 
        
        The Motion re Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
        Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor
of Judgment Debtor and against Judgment Creditor and Judgment Creditor’s
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $550.00. 
 
II.      
Remaining Items
 
Judgment Debtor filed items on January 22, 24, and 25, 2024. The latter
two filings (“Status Conference Statement” and “Exhibits”) presumably have to
do with the status conference regarding this case and the status of the bench
warrant issued. As the Judgment has been fully satisfied, there is no reason to
maintain the bench warrant. 
 
The Bench Warrant on Judgment Debtor is QUASHED. 
 
        The prior filing (“Concise Supplemental
Briefing”) has to do with the Court’s award of monetary sanctions against
Judgment Debtor as a result of his frivolous Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment.
Contrary to what Judgment Debtor claims, the Court’s award is not tentative —
it is final. No supplemental briefing was requested or necessary. At most, the
”supplemental briefing” is actually a motion for reconsideration. Both because
there is no new or different information presented and, on the merits, the
Court declines to reconsider the award of monetary sanctions against Judgment
Debtor and Judgment Debtor’s Counsel on December 18, 2023. 
 
        The “Concise Supplemental Briefing”
(i.e., the Motion for Reconsideration of the December 18, 2023 Award of
Monetary Sanctions Against Judgment Debtor and Judgment Debtor’s Counsel”) is
DENIED. 
 