  Case Number:  23STCP04638    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendants’ (1) Notice Of Motion To Stay Enforcement Of The Judgment, (2)
Notice Of Motion To Vacate The California Judgment On Sister State Judgment. Application
To Appear Pro Hac Vice As Counsel For Defendants Darvin Ham And Deneitra Ham.
 
BACKGROUND
TITUS DUNCAN and EARL COLEMAN (“Plaintiffs”) filed an application
for entry of judgment on sister-state judgment against DARVIN HAM and DENEITRA
HAM (“Defendants”). 
Now, Defendants bring a motion requesting an order
staying enforcement of the current Judgment on Sister-State Judgment and vacating
it. Also, they have filed an application for a defense attorney to appear pro
hac vice. Plaintiffs oppose the motion but not the pro hac vice application. The
Court considers the motion and application in this tentative ruling.
LEGAL STANDARD
A party seeking to set aside the sister-state judgment
has the burden to show by a preponderance of the evidence entitlement to the
relief. Tsakos Shipping & Trading v. Juniper Garden Town Homes
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 74, 88. “The ruling on a motion to set aside a judgment
rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be set aside on
appeal unless a clear abuse of discretion appears.” Ibid., pp.
88-89.
“Under the full faith and credit clause (U.S. Const.,
art. IV, § 1), ‘a judgment entered by one state must be recognized by another
state if the state of rendition had jurisdiction over the parties and the
subject matter and all interested parties were given reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard.’” Airlines Reporting Corp. v. Renda (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 14, 19. Sister-state judgments are entitled full faith and credit
as to questions of jurisdiction when the second court's inquiry discloses that
the issues were fully and fairly litigated and finally decided. Bank of Am.
v. Jennett (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 104, 117. 
ANALYSIS
Motion to Stay and Vacate
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ application to domesticate
the sister-state judgment is legally deficient because it is not properly
authenticated and is not a judgment but rather a writ of fieri facias. An authenticated
copy of the sister state judgment suffices if there are no meaningful defects. Cap.
Tr., Inc. v. Tri-Nat'l Dev. Corp. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 824, 831, fn. 4.
Here, the application for sister-state judgment attached the writ of fieri
facias, which was recorded by the recorded by the Clerk of Court in Fulton
County, Georgia. Accordingly, the Clerk of Court here in Los Angeles properly entered
the sister-state judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1710.25. Arguably,
as an issue of first impression, a judgment having a Writ of Fieri Facias suffices
as statutorily required authentication. See opposition, 5:11-15. The Court
therefore concludes that the clerk’s ministerial act of entering the
sister-state judgment was appropriate and rejects Defendants’ first argument
against enforcement of the sister-state judgment.
Defendants next contend that this Court should vacate
the sister-state judgment under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1710.40(a) because
the underlying judgment in Georgia violates their due process rights. Defendants
contend that they never received notice of the trial date and entry of default
in the Georgia case and thus the resulting sister-state judgment against them
is legally deficient. Defendants concede in their reply that the Georgia court
recently denied their motion to set aside and vacate the Georgia judgment but
note that they have now filed an appeal of that ruling. 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1710.40(a) provides
that a sister-state judgment “may be vacated on any ground which would be a
defense to an action in this state on the sister-state judgment . . . .” Potential
defenses to enforcement of a sister-state judgment include the judgment is not
enforceable in the state rendered. Fidelity Creditor Serv. v. Browne
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 195, 202-203. While Defendants present evidence supporting
their position that they did not receive proper notice of the trial and entry
of default judgment in the underlying Georgia case, Plaintiffs also present
evidence supporting the opposite position, i.e., that Defendants’ prior counsel
gave them notice of the trial. Also, Plaintiffs filed a supplemental
declaration showing that the Georgia court denied Defendants’ motion for relief
that was made on similar grounds as the instant motion. See Supplemental Opposing
Declaration, Exhibits 1 (Final Order and Judgment), p. 4, and 2 (Order) p. 5.
Based on this record, the Court concludes that Defendants have not met their
burden of establishing grounds for the sister-state judgment to be vacated. 
Defendants alternatively seek an order staying
enforcement of the sister-state judgment. Court of Civil Procedure Section
1710.50 requires the court to stay enforcement of a sister-state judgment if an
appeal from the sister-state judgment is pending, and such stay should remain
in place “until the proceedings on appeal have been concluded.” Code Civ.
Proc., §1710.50(a)(1). Defendants have attached a copy of their notice of appeal
of the Georgia court’s order denying their motion to vacate and set aside the
judgment. The Court will therefore stay enforcement of the sister-state
judgment pending the outcome of that appeal. 
            Motion
To Appear Pro Hac Vice
Attorney William Poplin, Jr., residing in Atlanta,
Georgia, applies for an order admitting him as counsel pro hac vice on behalf
of Defendants, based on payment of the $50.00 fee to the State Bar and
compliance with rule 9.40 of the California Rules of Court. 
A judge’s determination of whether to grant an
application to appear pro hac vice is evaluated under the
abuse-of-discretion standard. E.g., Sheller v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1697, 1713.
The Court finds that the applicant complied with
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40, including the applicant’s declaration
addressing the rule elements. 
Hence, the Court grants the application.
CONCLUSION
The motion is denied with respect to the request to
vacate the sister-state judgment but granted as to staying sister-state
judgment enforcement pending the appeal.
The application to appear pro hac vice is granted.
The Court sets a status conference re appeal and pro
hac vice application for 5/21/2025, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 55.