 Case Number:  21STCV12123    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV12123




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Mark Lolo and Yulia Lolo




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
Defendants/Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants Mark Lolo and Yulia
Lolo (“Defendants”) move for an order to continue the trial in this matter from
August 12, 2024 to January 20, 2025, and the Final Status Conference from
August 2, 2024 to January 10, 2025, and to reopen discovery with cut-off dates
commensurate with the new trial date. 
Defendants’ motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring a continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.  Whether the parties have
stipulated to the postponement is a relevant factor for consideration.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 595.2, but see Lorraine v. McComb (1934) 220 Cal. 753,
756-757 [finding a stipulation to be merely “directory”].)   
 
Further, a continuance or postponement of the trial does not operate
to reopen discovery proceedings. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b);
see also Pelton-Shepherd Indus., Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1575, fn. 10 [“on motion of any party, the court
may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set”].)  
 
Rule 3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Defendants
request a trial continuance on the grounds that their trial counsel is
unavailable on the currently-scheduled trial date of August 12 because she will
be out of the country on a pre-paid family trip that was set prior to the Court
unilaterally setting the current trial date on June 25, 2024.  (Mader Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendants themselves are also unavailable on
the currently-scheduled trial date due, as they must suddenly be out of the
country to care for a disabled parent. 
(Mader Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
            The
Court finds that Defendants’ sudden unavailability on the trial date due to the
need to care for a disabled parent out of the country constitutes good cause to
continue the imminent trial date, notwithstanding that there have been several
prior continuances.  This case is
approximately three and a half years old, so the requested continuance will not
run up against the five-year deadline.  
 
However, the Court does not
find that Defendants have shown good cause to reopen discovery, including to
take the depositions of Defendants Shaobo Ma and Tevin Tasher.  Defendants contend that the depositions of Ma
and Tasher have been unable to proceed despite diligent efforts, but Defendants
describe attempts by other parties – namely, Plaintiffs and the Nono’s
defendant – to schedule and take the depositions of Ma and Tasher.  Defendants do not demonstrate that they were
diligent in timely noticing the depositions of Ma or Tasher, or establish their
efforts to enforce their right to complete non-expert discovery, e.g., filing
and scheduling motions to compel discovery. 
In fact, the Court finds that Mader declaration illustrates how the
parties, including Defendants, have been dilatory in ensuring that discovery,
whether non-expert or expert, is completed per the Discovery Act, especially
when the action was initiated over 3 years ago. 

 
            As
such, the Court does not find good cause to reopen discovery or otherwise
re-set the discovery deadlines.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Defendants’ motion to continue the
trial.  But instead of rescheduling the
trial and final status conference, the Court, on its own motion, will vacate
the current trial and final status conference, and schedule a Trial Readiness
Conference on August 28, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The parties shall file a Joint Trial
Readiness Report no later than August 21, 2024, which shall provide an agreed
date, or time period, when all parties will be available for trial, which shall
not be beyond March 28, 2025.  
 
Moreover, the Court denies in part Defendants’ motion to reopen
discovery for the reasons stated above without prejudice.  Until further order of the Court, all
discovery remains closed.  
 
            Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders, and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  July 30, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court