 Case Number:  23SMCV02791    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02791




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant City National Bank, N.A.



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker’s (“Plaintiff”) business entity previously
filed suit against Defendant City National Bank, N.A., alleging (1) race and
color discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3) failure to prevent discrimination
and retaliation; (4) unfair business practices; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (6) fraud and deceit for allegedly discriminating
against it three times in five years for exercising its “freedom of speech” by
“making a complaint about being mistreated.” 
(See LAX Snak Trak Vending v. City National Bank, Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 23STCV00130.) 
The Court sustained Defendant’s unopposed demurrer to that complaint
with leave to amend, on the basis that it was uncertain, and noted that
Plaintiff cannot appear or file pleadings in pro per on behalf of the
business, which can only be represented by a licensed attorney.  (Case No. 23STCV00130, May 11, 2023 Minute
Order.)  Upon the entity’s failure to
timely amend, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application to
dismiss the action for failure to prosecute.
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff brought this action, in her individual
capacity, alleging three causes of action for (1) discrimination; (2)
retaliation re a complaint; and (3) unlawful business practices, stemming from
Defendant’s alleged racial discrimination in denying Plaintiff a business and
CD account, and retaliation for Plaintiff’s prior complaints of unfair
treatment.
 
On December 13, 2023, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer on the
basis of uncertainty, finding that the first two causes of action appeared to
be brought under the Unruh Act, but sustained Defendant’s demurrer to all three
causes of action on the grounds that they failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.  In light
of the additional allegations Plaintiff represented she could add to the
Complaint to cure the deficiencies identified by the Court, the Court granted
Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint “in conformance with the Court’s ruling
on or before January 17, 2024.”
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint,
which alleges eight causes of action for (1) violation of the Unruh Act; (2)
Violation of the Unruh Act; (3) Violation of Unfair Competition Law; (4)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (5) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (6) Gross Negligence; (7)
Negligent Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress; and (8) Intentional
Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress.  
 
On May 16, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the
second cause of action and struck Defendant Chad Gordon, the fourth through
eighth cause of action, and the claims for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees
for not being drawn in conformance with the Court’s December 13, 2023 ruling.  
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend the complaint.  Defendants oppose the motion, and Plaintiff
replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
has provided the Declaration of Girma H. Gebriel, as well as a redlined copy of
the proposed Second Amended Complaint, which now alleges nine causes of action
for (1) violations of the Unruh Act; (2) race discrimination; (3) violation of Business
and Professions Code 17500 et seq.; (4) negligence per se; (5)
negligence per se; (6) negligence per se; (7) negligence (failure to train);
(8) negligent infliction of mental and emotional distress (civil code section
1714(a)); and (9) intentional infliction of mental and emotional distress.  
 
Most of the Gebriel Declaration discusses the prior demurrer and
motion to amend.  With regard to the
current motion to amend, the Gebriel Declaration indicates as follows:
 
The proposed SAC (a redlined copy of which is
attached hereto as “Exhibit 1”) makes the following changes to the operative
pleading currently before the Court: 
 
1. The heading, which was made by Plaintiff when
she was in propria persona, has been changed to substitute my name and contact
information for hers; 
 
2. The second cause of action for retaliation
under the Unruh Act; the demurrer to which was sustained without leave to
amend, has been eliminated; 
 
3. The six causes of action for negligence and
negligent and intentional infliction of emotional distress, which were deemed
unpermitted due to the fact that leave to amend the complaint prior to the FAC
does not allow adding new causes of action, have been alleged; 
 
4. A new cause of action under Volume 42, Section
1981 of the United States Code (hereinafter “ 42U.S.C. 1981”) has been added; 
 
5. Prayers for general and punitive damages on
all applicable causes of action have been asserted; 
 
6. A new Defendant, City National Corporation
(hereinafter “CNC”) has been added as a Defendant in all causes of action. This
is due to the fact that, when Mr. Jewett was served with Form Interrogatories
3.0 et seq. “General Background Information-Business Entity”, he responded that
CNB was a “banking association” and gave no other background information. When
I sent him a meet-and-confer letter on the subject, his response was to send me
a dictionary definition of “banking association” without further detail. This
prompted my office to research the subject. We found that CNB is a wholly owned
subsidiary of CNC; 
 
That, as of this writing, no trial date has yet
been set in this matter; 
 
That no depositions have yet been taken in this
matter and discovery for both sides remains open.
 
(Gebriel Decl. at pp. 10-11.)
 
            In
connection with the prior motion for leave to amend, Plaintiff advanced another
version of Gebriels’ declaration, which indicated:
 
In drafting opposition [to Defendant’s demurrer
to the first amended complaint], I reviewed California Jury Instructions
(C.A.C.I.) and now believe that, although most of Ms. Ovsepian’s objections
lack merit, the objections to the Fourth and Fifth causes of action were well
taken in that there was no third party who was dealing with Plaintiff at that
time; I also realized that the first three causes of action for statutory
violations gave rise to causes of action for negligence per se, the pleading
could have been clearer as to dates and places, that the Seventh (now, in the
proposed amendment, the Eighth) Cause of Action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress should more properly be a general negligence cause of action
under Civil Code Section 1714 (a) and that Jennifer Rueda’s name was
misspelled.
 
            Although the current Gebriel
Declaration indicates a redlined version of the proposed second amended
complaint (“SAC”) is attached as Exhibit 1, no exhibits are attached to the
Gebriel Declaration.  Notwithstanding, a
redlined version of a proposed second amended complaint was filed with the
Court.  Thus, Plaintiff has adequately
indicated to the Court what allegations are proposed to be added or deleted by
page, paragraph, and line number.
 
Although not explicitly stated, the declarations also make clear that
the effect of the amendments are so that Plaintiff’s new counsel can add
additional causes of action and an additional City National entity as a party,
which counsel discovered was appropriate upon conducting an investigation
during discovery.  Therefore, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has substantially complied with the procedural
requirements of Rule 3.1324.  
 
Defendant opposes the motion on the grounds that (1) the request
includes requests for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees that were previously
stricken without leave to amend; (2) Plaintiff’s new retaliation claim is
substantively identical to the Unruh retaliation claim the Court dismissed
without leave to amend; (3) there is no basis for adding the new City National
defendant; and (4) Defendants would be prejudiced by the amendment, because
they have already incurred substantial legal fees in connection with the first
and second demurrers and motions to strike and the prior motion for leave to
amend, as well as propounding and responding to discovery.
 
While the Court acknowledges that it previously struck several causes
of action, a new defendant, and the requests for punitive damages and
attorneys’ fees without leave to amend in connection with the prior demurrer
and motion to strike, it did so because those additions exceeded the scope of
leave granted in connection with the first demurrer.  The Court’s May 16 order does not preclude
Plaintiff from seeking leave to amend the complaint to add those allegations,
as Plaintiff has now done.  Further,
while the Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the retaliation
Unruh claim without leave to amend on the grounds that there is no valid cause
of action for retaliation under Unruh, that does not preclude Plaintiff from
pleading a valid retaliation claim in another way, as Plaintiff has apparently
attempts to do now.  
 
To the extent Defendant raises substantive challenges to the new
allegations, the Court does not consider substantive challenges to the new
allegations in determining whether granting leave to amend; those substantive
challenges may be raised by appropriate motion practice.  (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048 [“the preferable practice would be
to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings”].)
 
With regard to prejudice, adding a new cause of action will always
increase the costs of litigation.  “But
the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would make
admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of prejudice
the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend the complaint, and orders Plaintiff to file and serve
the proposed second amended complaint on or before August 20, 2024.   
 
            Further, the Court orders Plaintiff
to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  July 30, 2024                                  ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 