 Case Number:  23SMCV02797    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02797




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Gina Teresa Sanchez




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Gina Teresa Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) moves to strike portions
of Defendant James Dostal’s (“Defendant”) Answer.  The motion is unopposed.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a) requires, “Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  It further requires, “As part of the meet and
confer process, the moving party shall identify all of the specific allegations
that it believes are subject to being stricken and identify with legal support
the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading shall provide
legal support for its position that the pleading is legally sufficient, or, in
the alternative, how the pleading could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days” prior to filing the motion to
strike.  (Ibid.)
 
The moving party shall file and serve with the
motion to strike a declaration stating either of the following:
 
(A) The means by which the moving party met and
conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to
strike, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised by the motion to strike.
 
(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject
to the motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            The Court previously noted that although
Plaintiff references “the attached Declaration of plaintiff GINA SANCHEZ re
“Meet and Confer” process,” no such declaration was previously filed.  (Motion at p. 2.)  The Court continued the hearing so Plaintiff
could file a declaration demonstrating compliance with the meet and confer
requirements.  (See January 9, 2024
Minute Order.)  Plaintiff filed a
declaration on January 16, 2024, demonstrating meet and confer efforts.  Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff has complied
with the meet and confer requirements.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)
 
Subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure, section 436 “authorizes
the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in the
procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” 
(Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528, as
modified on denial of reh'g (Apr. 24, 2008).) 

 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff moves to strike the
following paragraphs of Defendant’s answer:
 
5. Answering paragraph 4b, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
6. Answering paragraph 5, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
7. Answering paragraph 7, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
8. Answering paragraph 8, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
9. Answering paragraph 9, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
10. Answering paragraph 10, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
11. Answering paragraph 11, Defendant made a
reasonable inquiry and the information known of obtainable is insufficient to
enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
12. Answering the first cause of action for
breach of contract, Defendant made reasonable inquiry and the information known
of obtainable is insufficient to enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
13. Answering the second cause of action for
breach of contract, Defendant made reasonable inquiry and the information known
of obtainable is insufficient to enable Defendant to admit or deny. 
 
14. Answering the third cause of action for
common counts, Defendant made reasonable inquiry and the information known of
obtainable is insufficient to enable Defendant to admit or deny.
 
            Plaintiff bases her motion on the
fact that these responses do not admit or deny the allegations, as Plaintiff
contends is required by the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
             Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30,
subdivision (e) provides:  “If the
defendant has no information or belief upon the subject sufficient to enable
him or her to answer an allegation of the complaint, he or she may so state in
his or her answer and place his or her denial on that ground.”  
 
            Here, Defendant has merely indicated
a lack of information to admit or deny the allegations in the contested
paragraphs, but has not placed denials based upon those grounds.  Therefore, Defendant’s answer does not comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (e). 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court grants without leave to amend Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike portions of Defendant’s Answer.[1]
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of the same.
 
 
 
DATED:  January 24, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


