 Case Number:  23SMCV03457    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03457




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant 11649 Mayfield, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Christine Medrick



 
MOTIONS
 
Defendant 11649 Mayfield, LLC (“Defendant”) demurs to both causes of
action alleged in Plaintiff Christine Medrick’s (“Plaintiff”) First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the original Complaint filed in this action.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the Complaint is part of the Court’s record for this case, the
Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of allegations
in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records because such
matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the initial complaint filed in this matter
as a court record, and the date of the filing thereof, but not the truth of the
allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
Defendant demurs to both causes of action in Plaintiff’s FAC on the
basis that they failed to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018)
26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer, however,
“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendant contends that both of Plaintiff’s causes of action -- for
premises liability and negligence -- fail because they are time barred.  Specifically, the FAC alleges the incident
occurred on June 16, 2021 (FAC at ¶¶ GN-1, Prem.L-1), yet the original
Complaint was not filed until July 27, 2023. 

 
The statute of limitations for negligence and premises liability
actions is two years.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 335.1.)  Therefore, because the
original Complaint was filed more than two years after the alleged incident,
the claims appear, on their face, to be time barred.
 
“Equitable tolling and equitable estoppel are distinct doctrines.  Tolling, strictly speaking, is concerned with
the point at which the limitations period begins to run and with the
circumstances in which the running of the limitations period may be suspended.
Equitable estoppel, however, comes into play only after the limitations period
has run and addresses the circumstances in which a party will be estopped from
asserting the statute of limitations as a defense to an admittedly untimely
action because his conduct has induced another into forbearing suit within the
applicable limitations period. Equitable estoppel is wholly independent of the
limitations period itself and takes its life from the equitable principle that
no man may profit from his own wrongdoing in a court of justice.”  (Lantzy v. Centex Homes (2003) 31
Cal.4th 363, 383 [cleaned up]) (hereafter Lantzy.)
 
“Whenever a party has, by his own statement or conduct, intentionally
and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing true and to act upon
such belief, he is not, in any litigation arising out of such statement or
conduct, permitted to contradict it.” 
(Evid. Code, § 623.)
 
“But an estoppel may arise although there was no designed fraud on the
part of the person sought to be estopped. 
To create an equitable estoppel, it is enough if the party has been
induced to refrain from using such means or taking such action as lay in his
power, by which he might have retrieved his position and saved himself from
loss.  Where the delay in commencing
action is induced by the conduct of the defendant it cannot be availed of by
him as a defense.”  (Lantzy, supra,
31 Cal.4th at p. 384 [cleaned up].)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant should be equitably estopped from
asserting the statute of limitations as a defense, because attached to the FAC
are communications from Defendant to Plaintiff indicating that Defendant was
willing to work with Plaintiff informally to accommodate Plaintiff’s concerns only
if Plaintiff would “stop any legal actions” so Defendant could “open things up
for discussion and accommodations.”  (Ex.
A to FAC.)
 
Defendant argues that the email exchange does not establish that
Defendant made any promise to Plaintiff with the intent to deceive Plaintiff or
that Plaintiff actually induced Plaintiff to delay bringing this lawsuit.  (Demurrer at p. 5.)  
 
In Reply, Defendant argues various factual reasons why Plaintiff fails
to satisfy the requirements of equitable estoppel as a matter of law.  In support, Defendant cites to CACI No. 456,
which requires:
 
1.      That
Defendant said or did something that caused Plaintiff to believe that it would
not be necessary to file a lawsuit;
2.      That
Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s conduct and therefore did not file the lawsuit
within the time otherwise required;
3.      That
a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would have relied on Defendant’s
conduct; 
4.      That
after the limitation period had expired, Defendant’s representations by words
or conduct proved to not be true; and
5.      That
Plaintiff proceeded diligently to file suit once Plaintiff discovered the need
to proceed.  
 
However, “the existence of equitable estoppel generally is a factual
question for the trier of fact to decide, unless the facts are undisputed and
can support only one reasonable conclusion as a matter of law.”  (Schafer v. City of Los Angeles (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1263.)  Defendant
cites to Hopkins v. Kedzierski (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 736, 745 as
standing for a contrary proposition. 
(See Demurrer at p. 5.)  Hopkins
v. Kedzierski is distinguishable.  
 
There, the trial court bifurcated the statute of limitations issues
from liability issues, and denied the plaintiff’s request for a jury trial on
the equitable tolling/estoppel issues, trying those issues via bench trial
instead.  The appellate court held that the
plaintiff was not entitled to a jury trial on the issues of equitable
tolling/estoppel, because those were equitable doctrines, and “[t]he right to a
jury trial is limited to those causes of action (and their analogues) that were
historically triable in a court of law.” 
(Hopkins v. Kedzierski, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th
at p. 744.)
 
Because Defendant’s reply arguments rely on applying evidentiary facts
(email correspondences), susceptible to differing interpretations, to jury
instructions, it is clear that whether Defendant is equitably estopped from
asserting the statute of limitations defense in this case is a factual question
to be determined by the trier of fact at later stages of the litigation.  As such, the Court cannot determine that
Plaintiff’s causes of action are time-barred at this stage of the action as a
matter of law.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrers to
the FAC.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the FAC on or
before February 7, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 24, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court