

Hearing
Date:              January 6, 2025
Case
Name:                 Silva v. PCAM,
LLC 
Case
No.:                    24STCV25104
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant PCAM, LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Maria Silva

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Maria Silva (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on September
30, 2024, alleging claims for FEHA violations and numerous wage and hour Labor
Code claims against her former employer, Defendant PCAM, LLC.
 
            On
November 19, 2024, Defendant PCAM, LLC filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending
arbitration.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter pending
arbitration.
 
Existence of a Valid Arbitration
Agreement
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on a 2023 Arbitration Agreement. In support
of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiff
executed an Arbitration Agreement on October 3, 2023, as part of Defendant’s employee
onboarding process. (Cooley Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant “mutually agree that any and all of the following
claim(s), dispute(s) and/or controversy(s) will be resolved exclusively by final
and binding arbitration, and not by court action, in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein.” (Cooley Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) The Agreement
continues by stating “Arbitration shall be the exclusive means of resolving all
claims relating to termination, demotion, failure to promote or any other issue
regarding the terms and conditions of employment, the events leading up to
employment, statements made at any time regarding Employee’s employment at the
Company, alleged violations of federal, state, and/or local statutes, claims
based on any purported breach of duty arising in contract or tort, including
but not limited to breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, violation of public policy, harassment, discrimination or any
other alleged violation of any statutory, contractual or common law rights,
claims involving trade secret violations or unfair competition, claims alleging
violation of wage and hour laws, and any other claim arising from or related to
the employment relationship between the Company and Employee, including, but
not limited to those under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, 42 USC section 2000 et seq.; Americans with Disabilities Act; Civil
Rights Act of 1866, Civil Rights Act of 1991; 42 USC section 1981 et seq; Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended, 29 USC 621 et seq.; Equal Pay
Act, as amended , 29 USC section 206(d); regulations of the Office of Federal
Compliance, 41 CFR section 60 et seq.; and the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act, California Government Code section 12940 et seq., but excluding
ERISA claims . . ..” (Cooley Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff questions “the authenticity and validity of the entire agreement”
because the Agreement bearing her signature contains a date of October 3, 2010, but she
did not begin working for Defendant until 2023. (Silva Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff’s
attempt to discredit the signature on the Agreement based on this clearly
impossible date is unpersuasive. First, Defendant’s corresponding signature is
dated 2023 and Defendant’s evidence is that the document was maintained in
Plaintiff’s personnel file along with other documents presented to Plaintiff
during her onboarding process in October 2023. (Cooley Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs.
A-B.) Further, although Plaintiff states she does not recall signing the
Arbitration Agreement, she does not affirmatively state she did not sign an Arbitration
Agreement or that the signature on the document is not hers. (Silva Decl., ¶¶
1-14.) Based on the foregoing, it is clear that Plaintiff’s signature dated
2010 is merely a typo. There is no evidence that Plaintiff did not sign this
Agreement during her onboarding employment process. (See e.g., Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal. App. 5th 747, 756.) Moreover, this
typo does not render the Agreement “void,” and no legal authority is cited to
support this argument. (Opp., 4:6-17.) There is a fully executed Arbitration
Agreement between the parties and Plaintiff’s discrimination and harassment
claims fall within the scope of this Agreement. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration
Agreement
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable on two grounds; first,
her claims
cannot be compelled to arbitration based on the Ending the Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (EFAA) and, secondly, the
Arbitration Agreement is procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
 
            The EFAA
 
The EFAA amends the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA).[1]
The EFAA
provides: “[A]t the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a
sexual harassment dispute ... no predispute arbitration agreement ... shall be
valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under ... State law
and relates to ... the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).) “The
term ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is
alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or
State law.” (9 U.S.C. § 401(4).) “An issue as to whether this chapter applies
with respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal law.” (9 U.S.C. §
402(b).)
 
Plaintiff
argues that her Complaint is subject to the EFAA based on her allegations of sexual harassment arising from her
pregnancy during her employment. (Compl., ¶¶ 12-14, 79-91.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts – and Defendant
does not dispute – that harassment based on pregnancy is subject to the EFAA. (See
Delo v. Paul
Taylor Dance Foundation, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 685 F.Supp.3d 173,
180.) Instead, Defendant challenges the application of the EFAA to Plaintiff’s
Complaint on other grounds.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to sufficiently allege facts to state a claim for sexual harassment or sexual
assault. Although there is no controlling authority on the issue of whether a harassment
claim must be sufficiently pled for the EFAA to apply, such a standard is sensible
under the circumstances -- ensuring there is a claim for harassment that goes
beyond the mere label of a claim. More importantly, such a rule is supported by
persuasive federal authority. (See Ding v. Structure Therapeutics, Inc. (N.D. Cal.,
Oct. 29, 2024, No. 24-CV-01368-JSC) 2024 WL 4609593, at *7 [“So, if Plaintiff
plausibly pleads a sex-based hostile work environment claim, she pleads a sex
harassment dispute within the meaning of the EFAA.”]; Delo v. Paul Taylor
Dance Foundation, Inc., supra, 685 F.Supp.3d at pp. 181-182 [plaintiff must
“plausibly allege[] conduct constituting sexual harassment”].) 
 
The entirety of Plaintiff’s
harassment claim is based on a vague allegation that she was told by an
unidentified person that her pregnancy was “not good for the company.” (Compl.,
¶ 12.) This allegation is insufficient. Further, for the reasons discussed
below, the other allegations pertaining to adverse employment actions against
her cannot form the basis of a harassment claim as a matter of law. (Compl., ¶
14.)
 
To establish
a hostile work environment claim under California law, a plaintiff must allege
the conduct “created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment”
or otherwise “sufficiently offends, humiliates, distresses, or intrudes upon
its victim, so as to disrupt the victim's emotional tranquility in the
workplace, affect the victim's ability to perform the job as usual, or
otherwise interfere with and undermine the victim's personal sense of
well-being.” (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (a).)
 
When
the severity of harassment is at issue “ ‘ “[t]hat inquiry requires careful
consideration of the social context in which particular behavior occurs and is
experienced by its target.... The real social impact of workplace behavior
often depends on a constellation of surrounding circumstances, expectations,
and relationships which are not fully captured by a simple recitation of the
words used or the physical acts performed. Common sense, and an appropriate
sensibility to social context, will enable courts and juries to distinguish
between simple teasing or roughhousing ... and conduct which a reasonable
person in the plaintiff's position would find severely hostile or abusive.” ‘ “
(Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264,
283.)


“With
respect to the pervasiveness of harassment, courts have held an employee
generally cannot recover for harassment that is occasional, isolated, sporadic,
or trivial; rather, the employee must show a concerted pattern of harassment of
a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature. [Citations.] That is, when the
harassing conduct is not severe in the extreme, more than a few isolated
incidents must have occurred to prove a claim based on working conditions.” (Lyle,
supra, 38 Cal.4th at pp. 283–284.)
 
The comment that her pregnancy was “not
good for the company” is neither pervasive nor sufficiently severe to support a
cause of action for harassment. 
 
Also, adverse employment actions,
such as increased employment scrutiny, pretextual discipline, and demands that
she eliminate her pregnancy-related work restrictions (Compl., ¶ 14), may
constitute adverse employment actions that can support a claim for employment
discrimination, but not harassment. 
 
“Harassment
includes but is not limited to ... [v]erbal harassment, e.g., epithets,
derogatory comments or slurs on a basis enumerated in the Act.” (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 2, § 11019, subd. (b)(2)(A); see Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car
System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 129.) “ ‘[H]arassing
conduct takes place “outside the scope of necessary job performance, conduct
presumably engaged in for personal gratification, because of meanness or
bigotry, or for other personal motives.” [Citation.] “Thus, harassment focuses on situations in which
the social environment of the workplace becomes intolerable because the
harassment (whether verbal, physical, or visual) communicates an offensive
message to the harassed employee.” ’ ” (Serri v. Santa
Clara University (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 830, 869; see Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 706.) “Harassment is not conduct of a type necessary for
management of the employer's business or performance of the supervisory
employee's job.” (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 646.) 
 
For
example, the court in Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 55 explained that “commonly necessary personnel management actions
such as hiring and firing, job or project assignments, office or work station
assignments, promotion or demotion, performance evaluations, the provision of
support, the assignment or nonassignment of supervisory functions, deciding who
will and who will not attend meetings, deciding who will be laid off, and the
like, do not come within the meaning of harassment. These are actions of a type
necessary to carry out the duties of business and personnel management. These
actions may retrospectively be found discriminatory if based on improper
motives, but in that event the remedies provided by the FEHA are those for
discrimination, not harassment. Harassment, by contrast, consists of actions
outside the scope of job duties which are not of a type necessary to business
and personnel management. This significant distinction underlies the
differential treatment of harassment and discrimination in the FEHA.” (Id.
at pp. 64–65.)
 
Because the Complaint fails
sufficiently to allege a claim for harassment, the EFAA does not apply to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. Accordingly, the EFAA does not bar enforcement of the
Arbitration Agreement.[2]

 
Unconscionability
 
In opposition, Plaintiff also argues
that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they
need not be present in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are
evaluated on ‘ “sliding scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to’ conclude that the term is unenforceable. [Citation.]
Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the
less substantive unfairness is required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive
fairness ‘must be considered in light of any procedural unconscionability’ in
its making. [Citation.] ‘The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms
of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances,
that a court should withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff
first argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because
the arbitration provision was a condition of employment and offered on a
take-it-or leave it basis. That is, Plaintiff had no ability to negotiate the terms of
the Arbitration Agreement, and Defendant made no effort to explain its terms to
Plaintiff. (Silva Dec., ¶¶ 3, 5-8, 13.) In sum, Plaintiff could either sign the
Agreement or find another job.
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff represents that she did not know what “arbitration” was; that is, she
did not realize that agreeing to arbitration meant that she was giving up her
rights, and no one explained this to her. (Silva Decl., ¶¶ 10-12.)
 
            Generally,
given the take it or leave it nature of the contract, the arbitration agreement
suffers from some minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. It is an
adhesive contract, as are most employment agreements; “few employees are in a
position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 115.) Here, however, the Arbitration Agreement
itself states that “Employee
and the Company acknowledge and agree that it is not mandatory for Employee to
enter into this Agreement in order to obtain and/or continue employment with
the Company.” (Cooley Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) As such, by its own terms, it was not
offered on a take it or leave it basis. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s purported
failure to understand the terms of the arbitration provision does not add to
the procedural unconscionability of the Arbitration Agreement. (Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 88 [“[S]imply because a
provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the
nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.”].)
 
            Similarly,
the fact that Plaintiff is a Spanish speaker with allegedly limited English proficiency
does not add to the procedural unconscionability. First, there is insufficient
evidence that her employer knew she only spoke English with limited proficiency
and is unclear what limited proficiency means under the circumstances; further,
her onboarding documents were given to her by an PCAM employer who spoke
Spanish, and Plaintiff does not submit any evidence that she asked for any
documents in Spanish or asked any questions about the contents of the documents.
(Silva Decl., ¶¶ 5-12.) As such, no
translation was required; the absence of a translation, then, does not
contribute to the Agreement's procedural unconscionability.
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because the
agreement failed adequately to specify key arbitration procedures, including
failing to attach the referenced AAA rules. 
 
In Lane
v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, the court observed “[t]he failure to
attach a copy of arbitration rules could be a factor supporting a finding of
procedural unconscionability where the failure would result in surprise to the
party opposing arbitration” (Id. at 690), but analyzed numerous cases
and concluded the employer's failure to attach the arbitration rules “did not
render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be no surprise,
as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily accessible to
the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet. [Citations.] In
addition, [the plaintiff] ... does not appear to lack the means or capacity to
locate and retrieve a copy of the referenced rules. Finally, the arbitration
agreement at issue clearly specified a particular set of AAA rules, and it did
not modify those rules in any manner.” (Id. at pp. 691–692.) Lane
concluded, “[i]n the absence of oppression or surprise, we decline to find the
failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules rendered the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.” (Id. at p. 692.)
 
An argument of surprise is not well
taken where – as in Lane – the rules referenced in the agreement are
easily available on the Internet, and Plaintiff does not claim she lacks the
means or capacity to locate and retrieve a copy.
 
            Thus, there
is no procedural unconscionability arising from the inception of the
arbitration agreement. Although the Court’s analysis on unconscionability can
end here, the Court also finds that there is no substantive unconscionability. 
 
                                      
The only specifically identified substantively
unconscionable provision of the Agreement is the purported class action waiver.
The reply does not address this argument but merely argues that there is no
procedural unconscionability. 
 
As for the
class action waiver, however, Defendant has not sought to enforce that
provision and it is not even at issue since Plaintiff has not raised any class
or PAGA claims. Lastly, it is now well settled that class action waivers are
enforceable under the FAA. (See AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 344 [applying the FAA to invalidate California rule
prohibiting class action waivers in consumer contracts of adhesion]; Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 362–366
[recognizing validity of class action waivers under the FAA in employment
contracts].) Along these lines, Plaintiff has not directed the Court’s
attention to any case which supports her contention that a waiver of
representative claims, other than PAGA claims, is substantively unconscionable.
(See Poublon v. C.H. Robinson Company (9th Cir. 2017) 846 F.3d 1251,
1264.) 
 
Plaintiff
has not demonstrated unconscionability. Thus, Plaintiff has not carried her
burden of showing the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant
PCAM, LLC’s motion to compel arbitration. The matter is stayed
pending arbitration. 
 


