

 
On April 8, 2021, Plaintiff Patrice
Duren (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Ocok, LLC, alleging a
single cause of action for a violation of the Unruh Act (Civil Code section 51,
et eq.). A default judgment was entered against Defendant Ocok, LLC on January
14, 2022, in the amount of $11,290.02 (Judgment). 
 
On April 14, 2022, Plaintiff
assigned the Judgment to her counsel of record, Calhoun
& Associates (Judgment Creditor).
 
            On September
27, 2023, Judgment Creditor now moves the Court for an order instructing the Defendant
Ocok, LLC (Judgment Debtor) to assign its interest in current and future rental
income, and all rights to payments thereunder, to the Judgment Creditor to the
extent necessary to pay the Judgment in full, including accrued interest
through the date of payment, and seeks a related restraining order to
effectuate this assignment order. No opposition was filed. 
 
            The motion
is denied. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an assignment order for an interest in Judgment Debtor’s current and
future rental income and a related restraining order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (a)(2) and 708.520, subdivision (b).
 
            California law allows for an order assigning the judgment debtor's
right to payments due from a third person to the judgment creditor. California
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivisions (a)-(b) provides, in
relevant part:
 
“(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor
on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the
judgment creditor ... all right or part of a right to payment due or to become
due, whether or not the right is conditioned in future developments, including
but not limited to the following types of payments:
...
(2) Rents.
...
(b) The
notice of the motion shall be served on the judgment debtor. Service shall be
made personally or by mail.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
708.510, subdivision (c), further provides:  
 
“[I]n
determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment
pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration all relevant
factors, including the following: 
 
(1) The
reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. 
(2)
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in
satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings
assignment orders for support. 
(3) The amount remaining due on the money judgment. 
(4) The
amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may
be assigned.” 
 
The right to payment may be
assigned only to the extent necessary to satisfy the judgment creditor's money
judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (d).)
 
Additionally, California Code of
Civil Procedure § 708.520 permits a judgment creditor to apply to the court for
an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise disposing
of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.520, subd. (a).) “The court may issue an order pursuant to this section
upon a showing of need for the order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.520, subd. (b).)
Any order restraining a judgment debtor must be personally served upon the
judgment debtor and must contain notice to the judgment debtor that “the
failure to comply with the order may subject the judgment debtor to being held
in contempt of court.” (Code. Civ. Proc., § 708.520, subd. (d).)
 
            Here, Judgment Creditor asserts that Judgment Debtor, a limited
liability company, owns real property located at 2l5l-2171 West Florence
Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90047 (Property), which is a retail strip plaza
occupied by multiple commercial tenants. (Samtani Decl., ¶ 8.) Judgment
Creditor also asserts that the Property is currently occupied by third party
tenants – Spin Town Laundry, Jeffs Cleaners, and Quick Mart (Tenants). (Samtani
Decl., ¶ 9.) Finally, Judgment Creditor represents that, “[t]o date no payments
whatsoever have been received from Judgment Debtor OCOK, LLC or any other third
party to be applied to this Judgment.” (Samtani Decl., ¶ 6.) Based on the
foregoing evidence, Judgment Creditor seeks an assignment order of rental
income payable by Tenants against the interests of Judgment Debtor and a
restraining order prohibiting Judgment Debtor from assigning or otherwise
disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.
 
            Ps has failed to show that the Judgment Debtor was properly served.
Judgment Creditor served this Motion by mail at a different address than was used
to serve the Summons and Complaint on September 30, 2021, which served the
basis for the entry of default against Judgment Debtor. Thus, service does not
appear proper. 
 
            Further, although Judgment Creditor has provided evidence
demonstrating the amount remaining due on the judgment is $13,902.45 plus
interest, Judgment Creditor does not provide any evidence as to the amount it
expects to receive based on the monthly rents to be assigned. (Samtani Decl., ¶
6) While such information is not required under the statute, the Court has
discretion under the statute to consider this information to determine if the
assignment order is appropriate under the circumstances here.  This is because of the relatively small
amount at issue in the Judgment, while the assignment is sought as to three
commercial tenants. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (c)(3)-(4) [“(3) The
amount remaining due on the money judgment. (4) The amount being or to be
received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.”].)
 
            Finally, there is no admissible evidence of Judgment Debtor’s rights
and interests in the above-listed properties. Judgment Creditor has provided no
public records, such as deeds, or evidence of past rental agreements between
certain named tenants at those properties demonstrating that Judgment Debtor
possesses an interest in those properties. Rather, Judgment Creditor relies on
the unsubstantiated declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, which lacks foundation.
(Samtani Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) 
 
Based on this lack of evidence,
the Court cannot find that Judgment Creditor has satisfied the requirements of
California Civil Code of Procedure section 708.510.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion is denied. 