 Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  ANDREW BERGMAN, et al.,                      Plaintiffs,         v. ISAAC BLOCHER, et al.,                    Defendants.   Case No.: 21GDCV01353   Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL  Defense counsel, Hillary Arrow Booth (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendants Aneaka English, Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC, Selling N. Charleston LLC (“Defendants”).  There are 7 motions on calendar.Counsel filed the instant motions to be relieved as counsel on January 4, 2024.  Counsel has filed the requisite forms pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362.  However, the proposed order forms have been rejected as item 6 is not correctly filled out with counsel’s phone number. According to the declarations of Counsel, Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel because there is an absolute and irreparable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship stemming from Defendants’ failure to communicate and cooperate in the representation.  Counsel states that the deterioration of the relationship makes it unreasonably difficult for her to effectively represent Defendants and creates a conflict of interest.  (MC-052, §2.)  For these reasons, Counsel seeks to withdraw from representing Defendants in this action. Counsel properly served Defendants and their last known mailing and email addresses, which was confirmed by email within the past 30 days of filing the motion. As for future hearing dates, there is 1 demurrer set for February 16, 2024 (and 1 reserved for that date), 1 motion to compel further discovery responses set for March 1, 2024, an OSC re: Status of Representation, and a Case Management Conference set for March 26, 2024.  No trial date has been set.  Thus, there is sufficient time for Defendants to obtain substitute counsel.Accordingly, the motions to be relieved as counsel are granted.  Counsel is ordered to electronically submit updated proposed order forms.  The updated orders electronically lodged by Counsel will be signed following their submission.  The orders will become effective upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on each of the Defendants.In addition, as Defendants Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC, Selling N. Charleston LLC are corporate entities, they cannot represent themselves in propria persona.  (See Rogers v. Municipal Court (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1318.)  Thus, the Court will set an Order to Show Cause re Status of Representation of Defendants Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC, Selling N. Charleston LLC for March 1, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.