 Case Number:  23BBCV00856    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  SARA SULLIVAN,                    Plaintiff,         v. DEAN MARKS AKA DEAN SCOTT MARKS, et al.,                    Defendants.   Case No.:  23BBCV00856   Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER; MOTION TO STRIKE  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Sara Sullivan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on April 22, 2021, she was lawfully on Defendants Dean Marks aka Dean Scott Marks, individually and as trustee of the Marks-Titina Living Trust (“Marks”) and E.M. Service’s premises located at 4401-4403 Ensign Ave. in North Hollywood when she suddenly and without notice lost her footing and fell due to the slanted nature and non-compliant surface condition of the stairs that presented a dangerous condition.  Plaintiff alleges that the stairs were improperly maintained and presented an unreasonable danger. The complaint, filed April 21, 2023, allege causes of action for: (1) premises liability; (2) general negligence; and (3) fraudulent conveyance.B.    Motion on CalendarOn November 2, 2023, Defendant Dean Marks, individually and as Trustee of the Marks-Titina Living Trust (“Marks”), filed a demurrer to the 3rd cause of action in the complaint.  Concurrently, Marks filed a motion to strike portions of the complaint at paragraphs 14(a)(2) and FC-3 to FC-7, which seek punitive damages. On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed reply briefs.REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE         With the motion papers, Marks requests judicial notice of: (1) the Quitclaim Deed dated December 21, 2018 conveying the subject property from Marks to Marks as trustee of the Trust; and (2) all records and filings made in this matter.  The request is granted as to the quitclaim deed attached to the declaration of Andrew B. Dorr as Exhibit B.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-267, disapproved on other grounds.)  The request is granted as to the documents filed in this action.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)   DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER         Marks demurs to the 3rd cause of action for fraudulent conveyance.          In the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants possessed an ownership interest in the subject property.  (Compl. at FC-2.)  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of the negligence, Defendants have made an off-record transfer of the property to Defendant Doe 100 with an actual intent to hinder, delay, and defraud Plaintiff.  (Id. at FC-3.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants did not receive reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the off-record transfer of their interest in the property.  (Id. at FC-4.)  Plaintiff alleges that at the time of the transfer, Defendants knew that their liabilities and debts were beyond their ability to pay as they became due.  (Id. at FC-5.)  Plaintiff alleges that due to the transfer, Defendants were insolvent at the time of transfer or became insolvent as a result of the transfer.  (Id. at FC-6.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted with actual malice, fraud, and oppression, seeking to deprive Plaintiff of her rights under the law such that punitive damages are appropriate.  (Id. at FC-7.)          Marks argues that the 3rd cause of action lacks merit based on the judicially noticeable documents.  Marks provides a quitclaim deed dated December 21, 2018 (recorded on January 3, 2019) showing that Marks, a married man as his sole and separate property, quitclaimed to Marks as Trustee of the Marks-Titina Living Trust the subject property.  (Def.’s RJN No. 1; Dorr Decl., Ex. B.)   However, the subject incident occurred on April 22, 2021, which was nearly 2-3 years after the quitclaim deed transfer occurred.         In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the January 3, 2019 recorded quitclaim deed is not the only deed that is relevant to the 3rd cause of action.  Plaintiff argues that she is informed and believes that another incident took place where Defendants have made an off-record transfer of the property to Defendant Doe 100.  She argues that Defendant has refused to produce the deed evidencing the off-record transfer.          However, at this time, Plaintiff has no facts to support her fraudulent conveyance cause of action.  Other than alleging the basic elements of a fraudulent conveyance cause of action, Plaintiff has not alleged any further facts such as the date of the off-record transfer, who the transfer was made to (Doe 100), etc.  The opposition also does not make any showing that Plaintiff can add facts to amend her cause of action.          Thus, at this time, the Court will sustain the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action.  If Plaintiff is able to obtain evidence that an off-record transfer was made by Defendants following the April 22, 2021 incident, Plaintiff may file a motion for leave to amend the complaint to reallege the fraudulent conveyance cause of action.  However, as currently alleged, the 3rd cause of action is not supported by facts and relies solely on conjecture and speculation. DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE         Marks moves to strike the allegations for punitive damages from the complaint, as well as the 3rd cause of action at paragraphs FC-3 to FC-7.  Based on the Court’s review of the complaint, punitive damages was only alleged in connection with the 3rd cause of action for fraudulent conveyance.           In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot.CONCLUSION AND ORDER         Defendant Dean Marks, individually and as Trustee of the Marks-Titina Living Trust’s demurrer to the 3rd cause of action in the complaint is sustained without leave to amend.  However, if Plaintiff later obtains evidence through discovery that an off-record transfer was made by Defendants to “Defendant Doe 100,” then Plaintiff may file a motion for leave to amend to reallege a cause of action for fraudulent transfer.          The motion to strike is taken off-calendar in light of the ruling on the demurrer.