 Case Number:  23STCV18886    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendants Wiliams & Ribb LLP and WNR CPA’s,
Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendants Wiliams
& Ribb LLP and WNR CPA’s, Inc. demur to all six causes of action alleged by
cross-complainant Deanna J. Wiebe.  
First Two Causes of Action
Under Fair Employment and Housing Act
            Wiebe fails to allege sufficient facts for her first
cause of action for gender discrimination (Gov. Code, § 12940(a)) or her second
cause of action for failure to prevent gender discrimination (id., subd.
(k)).  The cross-complaint does not
allege she exhausted her administrative remedies.  “Before
pursuing a civil action asserting violation of the FEHA, an employee must file
an administrative complaint with the” Civil Rights Department “and obtain a
right-to-sue letter from the agency.”  (Foroudi
v. Aerospace Corporation (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 992, 1002.)  “ ‘Exhaustion of these procedures is mandatory;
an employee may not proceed in court with a FEHA claim without first obtaining
a right-to-sue letter.’ ”  (Id. at
pp. 1002-1003.)   
            The cross-complaint does not allege Wiebe filed an
administrative complaint with the Civil Rights Department.  Wiebe’s opposition does not respond to this
argument.  
Remaining Causes of Action
Wiebe alleges sufficient
facts for her third through sixth causes of action for: (3) misclassification,
(4) failure to pay wages, (5) waiting time penalties, and (6) violation of
ERISA section 502(a)(1)(B).  Cross-defendants’
demurrer never states or addresses any of the elements of these causes of
action.  It makes two arguments that
apply to these claims.
First, cross-defendants contend
Wiebe was not their employee because she alleges she was a partner in the
accounting firms.  (Demurrer, pp. 13-15.)  But they do not identify the legal standard
for determining whether she was an employee under the relevant statutes.  Whether someone is an employee requires analyzing “the
intended scope and purposes of the particular statutory provision or provisions
at issue.”  (Dynamex Operations W. v.
Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 903, 934.) 
The demurrer makes no argument based on any of the tests for determining
when someone is an employee.  Cross-defendants’
argument also relies on factual assertions extrinsic to the cross-complaint,
such as: “the sums collected and distributed by the firm were paid to Ms.
Wiebe’s professional corporation, not to her individually.” 
Second, cross-defendants argue
“Wiebe is estopped from bringing any cause of action based on the status of her
relationship with respect to the accountants.” 
(Demurrer, p. 15.)  The demurrer,
however, fails to identify the elements of estoppel or apply them to the
cross-complaint’s allegations.  This
argument also again relies on factual assertions not included in the
cross-complaint.  (Demurrer, p. 15 [they
paid sums “to Ms. Wiebe’s professional corporation”].)  
Disposition
Cross-defendants Wiliams
& Ribb LLP and WNR CPA’s, Inc.’s demurrers to the cross-complaint’s first
and second causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Cross-defendants’ demurrers to the third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are overruled.