 Case Number:  23GDCV02253    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 08/02/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.  23GDCV02253
Trial Date:  10/14/2024
Case Name: BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN v. KIRAKOSYAN MARKET INC., a California
corporation; and DOES 1-10 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND] 
 
PRELIMINARY PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Baydzar
Keosheyan
 
Responding Party: Defendant,
Kirakosyan Market, Inc.

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): No/Yes – Plaintiff’s proofs of
service for the moving papers indicate service via electronic mail. However,
the email address of Defendant’s counsel that Plaintiff served does not match
the email address listed on eCourt for Defendant’s counsel. That being said,
Defendant still filed an Opposition, so it appears as if Defendant received the
moving papers.
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed
Order
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition
 
Reply Papers: Reply
 
RELIEF REQUESTED 
Plaintiff, Baydzar Keosheyan, moves for an order granting Plaintiff leave to
file her proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC) and proposed Amendment to First
Amended Complaint (Fictitious/Incorrect Name) naming Doe 1.
 
This motion is made pursuant to CCP
§ 473 and California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 on the grounds that the
proposed FAC arises out of newly discovered facts, the amendment is in
furtherance of justice, and Defendant Kirakosyan Markets, Inc. will suffer no
prejudice by allowing the filing of the proposed FAC and proposed Amendment to
First Amended Complaint (Fictitious/Incorrect Name).
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Baydzar Keosheyan, filed a Complaint on 10/24/2023 against Defendant,
Kirakosyan Market Inc., a California corporation. The Complaint is a form
complaint and appears to allege two causes of action, one for general
negligence and another for premises liability. 
 
Plaintiff’s
causes of action arise from an alleged incident when Plaintiff was shopping at
Defendant’s market called Golden Market, and while checking out at the
register, another patron rode his scooter into the market and struck Plaintiff.
 
On
7/10/2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference that was
filed on 06/05/2024. (See Min. Order 7/10/2024, p. 1.) Further, on 7/10/2024,
this Court indicated that the jury trial in this matter is scheduled for
10/14/2024. (See Min. Order 7/10/2024, p. 2.)
 

LEGAL STANDARD – LEAVE TO
AMEND
The
court may, in furtherance of justice and on any proper terms, allow a party to amend
any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v.
Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235,
242.) The court may also, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer
to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
242.) Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between
the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy
in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v.
ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].)   Leave to amend
is thus liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern.  (Kolani v. Gluska (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave
to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.  (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Further, a separate supporting declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).) 
“Leave to amend is in general required to be liberally
granted [citation omitted], provided there is no statute of limitations
concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 
 
ANALYSIS
CRC 3.1324(a)
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)   include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
Here, Plaintiff attached Exhibit C to this
motion which is a copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint. Further,
attached as Exhibit E is a proposed First Amended Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name) naming Doe 1 as Grayr Agadzhanyan. 
(2)   state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
Here, Exhibit D to
Plaintiff’s motion indicates that nothing is sought to be deleted.
(3)   state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Here, Plaintiff attached Exhibit D which stated the
proposed additions and changes to the complaint are:
1.. Replace entire Complaint with
Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN's [Proposed] First Amended Complaint (All Pages) 
2. Add to footer: FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
(All Pages) 
3. Add Amended (Number): First to Caption
(Page 1) 
4. Add Chandler Michelotti, Esq. (SBN
343895) as Attorney and update contact information (Page 1, Heading) 
5. Replace Kirakosyan with Kirakosyans in
accordance with Amendment to Complaint filed on January 4, 2024 (Page 1, ¶ 1;
Page 2, ¶ 5(a); Page 4; Page 5) 
6. Replace 13 with 7 (Page 1; ¶ 2) 
7. Add general negligence/gross negligence
to ¶ 10(f) (Page 3, ¶ 10(f)) 
8. Add punitive damages to ¶ 14(a) (Page
3, ¶ 14(a)) 
9. Replace date and signatory (Page 3) 
10. Add gross negligence to Page 4 (Page
4) 
11. Replace date and description of reasons
for liability with updated allegations for general negligence cause of action
(Page 4) 
12. Add additional page for description of
reasons for liability with updated allegations for general negligence cause of
action
13. Replace description of premises and
circumstances of injury with updated allegations for premises liability cause
of action (Page 5) 
14. Add additional page for description of
premises and circumstances of injury with updated allegations for premises
liability cause of action
(Pl. Mot. Ex. D.)
Discussion CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)
Here, Plaintiff did not appear to strictly comply with the requirements of CRC,
Rule 3.1324(a)(3) because in several instances Plaintiff does not state what
allegations are proposed to be added and where. 
For example, when Plaintiff indicates in ¶ 12 of
Exhibit D that she will “Add additional page for description of reasons for
liability with updated allegations for general negligence cause of action,”
Plaintiff does state what allegations are proposed to be added and where.
That being said, Defendant did not oppose this motion on
grounds that the requirements of 3.1324(a) were not met. 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff sufficiently
complied with the requirements of 3.1324(a).
CRC, Rule 3.1324(b)
Further, under CRC 3.1324(b), a separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1)   the
effect of the amendment;
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel, Chandler Michelotti, states
the effect of the amendment in ¶ 7 of the Michelotti Declaration. Michelotti
indicates that the proposed FAC will amend certain factual allegations and add
an amended prayer including punitive damages for allegations of gross
negligence. (See Michelotti Decl. ¶ 7.)
(2)   why
the amendment is necessary and proper; 
Here, Plaintiff’s declaration does not explicitly
address why the amendment is necessary and proper. In Reply, Plaintiff argues
that ¶ 7 of the Michelotti Declaration indicates that the amendment is
necessary and proper because it adds a claim for gross negligence and seeks
punitive damages. 
(3)   when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;
Here, Plaintiff’s declaration does not explicitly
address this requirement. However, Plaintiff’s Reply states that ¶ 7 of the
Michelotti Declaration addresses this factor. In relevant part, ¶ 7 of the
Michelotti Declaration stated, “The video footage provided on June 6, 2024, has
provided newfound information, which was confirmed via the deposition of
Defendant KIRAKOSYAN MARKETS, INC.'S Person Most Knowledgeable on June 26,
2024. Accordingly, Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN hereby files this Motion for
Leave to Amend Complaint and seeks leave to file her proposed First Amended
Complaint, which will amend certain factual allegations and an amended prayer
to include punitive damages for allegations of gross negligence.” (Michelotti
Decl. ¶ 7.)
(4)   the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the
motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).) 
Here, Plaintiff’s declaration does not address this
requirement. However, Plaintiff’s Reply states that based on the June 6, 2024
and June 26, 2024 dates, there was no need to explain why the request for
amendment was not made earlier because Plaintiff sought leave to amend one week
after the PMK deposition on June 26, 2024.
Discussion 3.1324(b)
In
Opposition, Defendant argues that this motion should be denied because
Plaintiff did not comply with CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).
Defendant argues:
The Declaration of Chandler Michelotti
fails to set forth any facts that properly form the basis for a claim to assert
a new cause of action for “gross negligence” and the imposition of punitive
damages, which Plaintiff’s counsel refers to as causing no prejudice to the
Defendant, which could not be further from the truth. As the declarations do
not satisfy the mandatory requirements of California Rules of Court,
plaintiff’s motion must be denied.
(Oppo. p. 4.)
As can be seen from Defendant’s
argument in the Opposition on page 4, as quoted above, Defendant does not make
any argument with respect to 3.1324(b). Defendant argues that the Michelotti
Declaration fails to set forth any facts that properly form the basis for a
claim to assert a new cause of action for gross negligence and punitive
damages, but Defendant’s argument has nothing to do with 3.1324(b).
The Court finds that
Plaintiff sufficiently complied with CRC, rule 3.1324(b).
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court tentatively plans to GRANT
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint and Amendment to
First Amended Complaint (Fictitious/Incorrect Name) naming Doe 1.
The vast majority of Defendant’s Opposition attacks
the merits of this case, argues that the proposed amendments fail to state a
cause of action, and argues that punitive damages are not warranted in this
case. As to these arguments, the Court does not find them availing. The Court’s
preferable practice is to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test
the legal sufficiency by demurer, motion for judgment on the pleadings, or
other appropriate proceedings. (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
In Opposition, Defendant cites case law about how unwarranted
delay can be a valid reason for denial of a motion for leave to amend, and how
it is within the trial court’s discretion to allow amendments of pleadings. 
Defendant argues there will be severe prejudice to
Defendants because Plaintiff is seeking to add a Defendant three months before
trial and two months before discovery cut off. Defendant also argues there will
be prejudice to Defendants because seeking punitive damages substantially
changes the potential value of this case on the eve of trial when it is
virtually too late for defendants to do any additional discovery.  
The Court
will hear argument as to the issue of whether there is unwarranted delay or
prejudice. 
 