 Case Number:  23GDCV00702    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 08/02/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.  23GDCV00702
Trial Date: UNSET 
Case Name: LOUISE STEPHENS v. USC VERDUGO HILLS HOSPITAL; PMB REAL ESTATE
SERVICES CA, INC.; PMB REAL ESTATE SERVICES, LLC.; and DOES 1-100, inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND] 
 
PRELIMINARY PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Louise
Stephens
 
Responding Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE SYSTEMS US, INC. (ASSA)

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Yes/No – See section titled
“Tentative Ruling.”
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed
Order; Proof of Electronic Service for Proposed Order
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition filed
only by Defendant ASSA [Defendants Verdugo MOB LP and PMB Real Estate Services,
LLC did not file opposition to this motion.]
 
Reply Papers: Reply 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED 
Plaintiff, Louise Stephens, moves this Court for leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint.
 
“This motion is based pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(a)(1), Section 576, and Rule
of Court 3.1324, relevant case law, and is made on the following grounds: 
 
1. The causes of action for Products
Liability Negligence and Strict Products liability are timely and arise out of
the same events as the claims asserted in the operative complaint. 
2. The proposed amendment includes
products liability causes of action that are allowable causes of action against
Defendant ASSA ABLOY. 
3. California law strongly favors
allowing amendments of pleadings. 
4. The Motion has been timely
brought and will not result in any prejudice to any party.”
 
(Pl. Mot. p. ii.)


BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
filed the initial Complaint on 4/6/2023.
 
On
8/7/2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants: (1) USC
Verdugo Hills Hospital; (2) PMB Real Estate Services CA, Inc.; (3) PMB Real
Estate Services, LLC.; and (4) Does 1-100 inclusive.
 
On
11/28/2023, Plaintiff dismissed, without prejudice, all causes of action
against Defendant USC Verdugo Hills Hospital.
 
Further,
on 11/28/2023, Plaintiff designated Defendant, Doe 2, as ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE
SYSTEMS US INC.
 
Further,
on 11/28/2023, Plaintiff designated Defendant, Doe 1, as Verdugo MOB, LP.
 
On
12/8/2023, Plaintiff dismissed, without prejudice, Defendant PMB Real Estate
Services CA, Inc. 
 
On
12/22/2023, Defendant, ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE SYSTEMS US, INC., filed its Answer.
 
On
12/22/2023, ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE SYSTEMS US, INC. filed Cross-Complaint.
 
On
1/11/2024, Verdugo MOB LP filed a Cross-Complaint against ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE
SYSTEMS US, INC. and MOES 1-10.
 
The
FAC lists one cause of action titled as “PREMISES LIABILITY: NEGLIGENCE.” The
FAC alleges that on or about March 7, 2022, due to negligence and dangerous
conditions, an unsafe glass sliding door struck Plaintiff causing her to fall
and suffer personal injury. (See FAC ¶ 5.)
 

LEGAL STANDARD – LEAVE TO
AMEND
The
court may, in furtherance of justice and on any proper terms, allow a party to
amend any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v.
Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235,
242.) The court may also, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
242.) Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between
the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy
in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v.
ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].)   Leave to amend
is thus liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern.  (Kolani v. Gluska (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave
to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.  (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Further, a separate supporting declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).) 
“Leave to amend is in general required to be liberally
granted [citation omitted], provided there is no statute of limitations
concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 
ANALYSIS
CRC 3.1324(a)
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)   include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
Here, Plaintiff attached as Exhibit 1 to
its motion the Proposed Second Amended Complaint.
(2)   state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
Here, it does not appear
as if the purpose of the proposed SAC is to delete allegations. It appears as
if the purpose of the proposed SAC is to add allegations.
(3)   state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Here, Plaintiff’s notice of motion and Plaintiff’s
counsel’s (Carolyn L. Tan) declaration indicates what and where the additional
allegations will be located in the SAC.
CRC 3.1324(b)
Further, under CRC 3.1324(b), a separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1)   the
effect of the amendment;
The Tan declaration states in relevant part, “The
effect of the amendment is that there will be a second cause of action for
negligence products liability and a third cause of action for strict products
liability against Defendant ASSA ABLOY. These claims originate from the same
set of facts as the operative complaint. Plaintiff seeks the same damages as
originally pleaded.” (Tan Decl. ¶ 12.)
(2)   why
the amendment is necessary and proper; 
The Tan declaration states that the SAC is necessary
to resolve all claims at one time and to preserve judicial resources. (See Tan
Decl. ¶ 13.)
(3)   when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;
In relevant part here, Tan’s declaration states:
10. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff
received Defendant Assa Abloy’s discovery responses, which included its
purchase agreement with PMB REAL ESTATE SERVICES, its installation and service
manual, and photographs of the automatic door upon installation in August 2016.

11. After consultation with our expert and
consultants, there is a potential products liability case for omitted and
failed sensors and improper door opening speed or pressure. The existing design
allowed persons to enter a dangerous space where they could be injured by a
retracting door mechanism. There were also failure of warnings and adequate
instructions. Although Plaintiff has informally inspected the area, a formal
site inspection is set for July 31, 2024.
(Tan Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)
 
(4)   the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the
motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).) 
Here, Tan states, “The complaint was not amended
earlier because it was initially thought that Assa Abloy negligently failed to
place required warning stickers on the doors in violation of building codes and
its own manual. However, Assa Abloy has represented that during installation in
2016, it did properly place all warning stickers.” (Tan Decl. ¶ 14.)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Plaintiff’s proof of service
indicates proper service by electronic mail on counsel for Defendants ASSA and
Verdugo MOB, LP.
However, as
to Defendant, PMB Real Estate Services, LLC., eCourt lists Defendant’s
counsel’s email address as Thomas.Pokladowski@wilsonelser.com. At the hearing,
Plaintiff and Defendant’s counsel should address why this address was not
served the moving papers. [The Court notes that both Verdugo MOB, LP and PMB
Real Estate Services, LLC appear to be represented by Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz,
Edelman & Dicker LLP (Wilson). Verdugo MOB LP appears to be properly served
because this motion was served at the email address of
vladyslava.turner@wilsonelser.com, which is the address listed on eCourt for
Verdugo MOB LP’s counsel at Wilson. However, although PMB Real Estate Services,
LLC is also represented by Wilson, eCourt lists PMB Real Estate Services, LLC as
having a different attorney at Wilson named Thomas Pokladowski, and the email
address for Thomas that is listed on eCourt is not listed on Plaintiff’s proof
of service for the moving papers.]
Therefore, the
parties should be prepared to address whether or not there is a service issue
with respect to this motion.
As to the
merits of this motion, the Court tentatively plans to GRANT Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.
Plaintiff complied
with all the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a)-(b).
Further, none of Defendant’s arguments in Opposition are availing. Defendant
simply argues about what Defendant believes actually happened, as if this is a
contested evidentiary hearing that resolves the merits of this case. Defendant
also argues that it does not own, operate, maintain, nor manage the subject
premises. Overall, Defendant’s arguments in opposition are not availing or on
point for this type of motion.
Further,
Defendant’s argument that this motion is not made in the furtherance of justice
under CCP § 473 because the parties would have to re-engage in
additional costly discovery is unavailing. 
 