  Case Number:  23SMCV00360    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


23SMCV00360




MOTION  


Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Amy Goldman




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  The Berman Law Group, APC



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Amy Goldman (“Defendant”) moves for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff The Berman Law Group, APC (“Plaintiff”) to recover $18,449.06
in attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with Plaintiff’s complaint,
which Defendant contends is meritless and was brought in bad faith.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant
replies.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, “[a]
trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)  “‘Actions or tactics’ include making or
opposing motions or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint,
answer, or other responsive pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd.
(b)(1).)  “‘Frivolous’ means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5,
subd. (b)(2).)  The Court must consider
whether the parting seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd.
(f)(1)(c).)  Sanctions “shall be limited
to what is sufficient to deter repetition of the action or tactic or comparably
action or tactic by other similarly situated. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(2).)  
 
            Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff filed a frivolous complaint against her to
recover attorneys’ fees two years after the parties agreed to arbitrate the
issue.  Defendant further argues the
complaint was meritless in any event because Plaintiff failed to countersign
the retainer agreement, and thus the contract at issue was oral, not written, and
governed by a 2-year statute of limitations, as opposed to a 4-year statute of
limitations, which had already run by the time Plaintiff filed the
Complaint.  
 
Defendant further contends
that Plaintiff’s efforts in personally serving the Complaint via process server
at Defendant’s place of business were excessively disruptive, as Defendant’s
place of business provides psychotherapy to children involved in high conflict
divorce proceedings, and the process server’s behavior in barging into Defendant’s
private waiting room was traumatizing to Defendant’s clients who were seated in
the waiting area at the time.  Defendant
faults Plaintiff for not first attempting to serve Defendant via Defendant’s
attorney or sending a notice and acknowledgement form.  Defendant also criticizes Plaintiff for
“misrepresenting” in the complaint that there is a written contract at issue
and the relevant statute of limitations period is four years.
 
            Plaintiff
counters that, although arbitration proceedings were pending, Plaintiff’s
counsel was concerned that those proceedings did not, in themselves, toll the
statute of limitations.  When Defendant
refused to enter into a tolling agreement, concerned about the impending 4-year
statute of limitations deadline, Plaintiff filed and served Defendant with the
breach of contract action.  (Berman Decl.
¶¶ 12-13.)  Plaintiff’s counsel contends
that he believed in good faith that the contract at issue was written, and the
applicable statute of limitations was four years.  (Berman Decl. ¶¶ 9, 14-15.)  
 
            Defendant
raised the issue of the retainer agreement not being countersigned by
Plaintiff, the contract at issue being oral as opposed to written, and the
applicable statute of limitations being two years as opposed to four, for the
first time in Defendant’s arbitration brief, which Defendant served on
Plaintiff’s counsel on or about August 31, 2023.  In response, Plaintiff offered to withdraw
the arbitration claim, on the basis that the 2-year statute of limitations
applied, but Defendant refused to withdraw the counter-claim, so the
arbitration hearing went forward. 
(Berman Decl. ¶¶ 20-21.) 
Plaintiff dismissed the entire action without prejudice on September 12,
2023.
 
            Based upon the record, the Court
finds that Defendant has not demonstrated Plaintiff’s bad faith.  The facts demonstrate that Plaintiff acted in
good faith in filing suit, which was based on a written agreement Plaintiff
attached to the complaint, and once Defendant raised the issues of the missing
countersignature and two-year statute of limitations, Plaintiff promptly investigated
those issues and dismissed this lawsuit within two weeks.  
 
            Moreover, Plaintiff is not required
to seek alternative methods of service.  The
statutory authority is clear:  “A summons
may be served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to the person to be served.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) 
Short of facts demonstrating that Plaintiff knowingly orchestrated
service in a manner intended to be abusive, compliance with section 415.10 by
sending a process server to Defendant’s place of business does not demonstrate
bad faith warranting sanctions.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s
motion for monetary sanctions.  Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.

 
 
DATED:  February 1, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 