  Case Number:  23PSCV02024    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants California Pools, Inc., Ryder Wayne Steimle,
and Pacific Flux, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Scott Easley
 
Defendants California Pools, Inc., Ryder Wayne Steimle,
and Pacific Flux, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Scott Easley
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants California Pools, Inc., Ryder Wayne Steimle,
and Pacific Flux, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART, OVERRULED IN PART. 
 
The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the Third and Fourth
Causes of Action, and OVERRULED as to the First, Second, and Sixth Causes of
Action.
 
Defendants California Pools, Inc., Ryder Wayne Steimle,
and Pacific Flux, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint is deemed MOOT.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for breach of contract arising from a franchise
agreement. From the 1970s to 1990, Roy Easley was a franchisee of Defendant
California Pools, Inc. (CPI) On March 30, 1990, Roy Easley entered into a
franchise termination agreement with CPI in which Easley agreed to sell the
franchise back to CPI for $375,100. According to their agreement, CPI agreed to
make the payments in increments of $300 for each pool it constructed in the
area that Roy Easley had previously worked.
 
While CPI made payments pursuant to the agreement, CPI
allegedly concealed the total number of eligible pools it constructed from Roy
Easley. CPI then allegedly sold the franchise to Defendant Sweetwater Pools,
Inc. (Sweetwater Pools) and failed to pay the remaining amount owed to Roy
Easley. In April 2021, Roy Easley died.
 
On July 6, 2023, Scott Easley, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Roy Easley, representative of the Estate of Roy
Easley, and trustee of the Roy Easley Living Trust, filed a complaint against
Defendants CPI, Ryder Wayne Steimle, Sweetwater Pools, Wyatt Stewart, Vanz M.
Steimle, Pacific Flux, Inc. (Pacific Flux), and Does 1-15, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) concealment, (3)
conspiracy, (4) interference with contractual relations, (5) accounting, and
(6) elder abuse. On January 8, the court sustained
a demurrer to the Complaint by CPI, Ryder Steimle, and Pacific Flux
(collectively, CPI Defendants).
 
On February 9,
2024, Scott Easley filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On February 26, 2024, the CPI Defendants filed
the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing on February 22, the
CPI Defendants’ counsel met and conferred telephonically with Scott Easley’s
counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Boufadel Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
A hearing on the demurrer and motion to
strike is set for March 25, 2024, along with a case management conference and
OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service.
 
ANALYSIS

CPI Defendants demur to Scott Easley’s first
cause of action (breach of contract), second cause of action (concealment),
third cause of action (conspiracy), fourth cause of action (interference with
contractual relations), and sixth cause of action (elder abuse). For the
following reasons, the court SUSTAINS
the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to Scott
Easley’s third and ­fourth causes of action with leave to amend and OVERRULES their demurrer to Scott Easley’s first, second, and ­­sixth causes of
action.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Breach of Contract (First Cause of
Action)
 
The CPI Defendants argue Scott Easley’s first
cause of action for breach of contract fails to plead sufficient facts to state
a claim. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances,
a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a cause
of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished through the
medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division of Labor
Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d
268, 275.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the CPI Defendants argue the
FAC fails to allege facts establishing how CPI breached the franchise termination
agreement. The FAC alleges CPI agreed to pay Roy Easley a total of $375,000 in
installments by paying a total of $200 and $100 for each pool sold and
constructed within the boundaries of the “Glendora Office.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) The
FAC then alleges that while the CPI made partial payments pursuant to the
agreement, CPI failed to make payments at the rate of $200 per pool sold and
constructed within the boundaries of the Glendora Office. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Based on
this allegation, the court finds Scott Easley has adequately alleged CPI
breached the agreement by failing to pay per pool at the agreed-upon rate.
 
Accordingly, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Concealment (Second Cause of Action)
 
The CPI Defendants contend Scott Easley’s
second cause of action for concealment fails to plead sufficient facts to state
a claim. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” (Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 830, 850, quoting Roddenberry v. Roddenberry (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666.)¿ Furthermore, the facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the CPI Defendants contend
Scott Easley has failed to allege their alleged concealment with the requisite
specificity. But “[l]ess specificity in pleading fraud is required ‘when it
appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469, quoting Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217.) Here, the FAC alleges that the CPI Defendants intentionally concealed the
actual number of pools built in the Glendora area. (FAC, ¶ 26.) The FAC also
alleges that the CPI Defendants intentionally concealed the fact that CPI sold
its franchise to Sweetwater Pools. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Because these allegations
involve the CPI Defendants’ own conduct, Scott Easley is not required to
specifically plead when, where, and how the CPI Defendants concealed
information regarding the actual number of pools constructed and the new
franchise agreement with Sweetwater Pools.
 
The CPI Defendants also contend Scott Easley
has failed to demonstrate the CPI Defendants were under a duty of disclosure.
In addition to transactions involving fiduciary or confidential relationships, a
duty of disclosure arises when “ (1) the defendant makes representations
but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are
known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known
to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; [or] (3) the defendant actively
conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner Constr. Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.) Here, the FAC alleges facts involving
the actual number of pools built in the Glendora area were only known by the CPI
Defendants and that the CPI Defendants knew the facts were not known or
reasonably discoverable by Roy Easley. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Based on these allegations,
Scott Easley has adequately established the CPI Defendants were under a duty to
disclose the actual number of pools they constructed.
 
Accordingly, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Conspiracy (Third Cause of Action)
 
The CPI Defendants maintain Scott Easley’s third
cause of action for conspiracy fails because it is not an independent cause of
action. It is well established that “[c]onspiracy is not an independent cause
of action, but rather a doctrine imposing liability for a tort upon those
involved in its commission.” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 568, 590.) Here, the FAC attempts to allege conspiracy as a
stand-alone cause of action and fails to identify which tort it is seeking to apply
civil conspiracy liability. (FAC, ¶ 29-31.)
 
Accordingly, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is SUSTAINED. Scott Easley is granted leave to amend the
FAC by including these conspiracy allegations where proper in the remaining
causes of action.
 
Interference with Contractual Relations
(Fourth Cause of Action)
 
The CPI Defendants argue Scott Easley’s
fourth cause of action for interference with contractual relations fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations are “(1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (I-CA Enterprises,
Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the CPI Defendants argue this
cause of action is barred by the applicable two-year statute of limitations.
But the court must first determine if Scott Easley’s cause of action is
sufficiently pled. Here, the FAC fails to allege how Ryder Steimle and Pacific
Flux engaged in intentional acts that were designed to induce a breach or
disruption to Roy Easley and CPI’s contractual relationship. While the FAC
alleges they engaged in conduct “to interfere and disrupt the contractual
relationship,” it fails to specifically allege (1) what their conduct was and
(2) how their conduct was intentionally aimed at disrupting Roy Easley and
CPI’s contractual relationship. (FAC, ¶ 33.) Furthermore, the FAC fails to
allege how their relationship was actually breached or disrupted. While the FAC
alleges CPI still owes payments to Roy Easley’s estate, it fails to allege when
and how CPI stopped making the payments. In fact, the FAC appears to allege
that CPI is still making payments on pools that have been recently constructed.
(FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
Accordingly, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
Elder Abuse (Sixth Cause of Action)
 
The CPI Defendants contend Scott Easley’s
sixth cause of action for elder abuse fails to plead sufficient facts to state
a claim. The court disagrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to the Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act (EADACPA), an elder or dependent adult may bring a
civil action for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment pursuant to Welfare
and Institutions Code section 15657. An elder or dependent adult may also bring
a civil action for financial abuse pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15657.5. For the purposes of the EADACPA, “elder” is defined as “any
person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.27.) “Dependent adult” is defined as any person “regardless of
whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who
resides in this state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict
his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her
rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or
developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have
diminished because of age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §15610.23, subd. (a).)
 
The EADACPA defines financial abuse as the
taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining of an elder or
dependent adult’s real or personal property “for a wrongful use or with intent
to defraud, or both.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a).) Property
is deemed taken for a wrongful use if “the person or entity knew or should have
known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent
adult.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (b).) Financial abuse may also
occur when the taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining of an
elder or dependent adult’s real or personal property is the result of undue
influence as defined in Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.70. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a)(3).)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Scott Easley’s sixth cause of
action for elder abuse is based on the allegations supporting Scott Easley’s
second cause of action for concealment. In particular, the FAC alleges that “[d]espite
knowing that Roy Easley was owed money under the Agreement, these defendants
hid information and money from Roy Easley and refused to pay Roy Easley in an
attempt to defraud him of the proper amount of money owed under the Agreement.”
(FAC, ¶ 37.) The CPI Defendants contend the FAC fails to allege fraud with
specificity. But as noted above, the court has found that the FAC properly
alleges a cause of action for concealment against the CPI Defendants.
 
Accordingly, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the CPI Defendants’ demurrer to Scott Easley’s FAC is SUSTAINED
IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the third and fourth
causes of action. The demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to the first, second,
and sixth causes of action.
 
Based on the above
analysis, the CPI Defendants’ motion to strike portions of Scott
Easley’s FAC is deemed MOOT.