 Case Number:  23GDCV00630    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT VAHE KHCHATRYAN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
CROSS-COMPLAINT           INTRODUCTION
           This is a tort action
arising from a Homeowner’s Association (“HOA”) dispute. Plaintiffs Maureen Gonzalez and Kathleen Lemke (“Plaintiffs”)
sued Defendants Central Park North Association (“CPN”), Bonnie Hartounian
(“Hartounian”), George Gevorgyani (“Gevorgyani”), Bella Nazarian (“Nazarian”),
and Vahe Khchatryan (“Khachatryan”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on March 28,
2023, alleging causes of action for (1) Fraud; (2) Negligence; (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
On December 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”).
Plaintiffs
allege CPN manages their condominium complex located at 1422 Central Ave.,
Glendale 91202 (“Complex”). Defendants Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian (collectively,
“CPN Defendants”) sit on CPN’s Board. Plaintiffs own Unit 2 within the Complex
(“Plaintiffs’ Unit”). Defendant Khachatryan is Plaintiffs’ neighbor. According
to the complaint, the parties’ dispute began when Khachatryan hired an
unlicensed contractor to perform construction work on his own condominium. The
contractor’s sub-par work caused damage to Plaintiffs’ Unit. Plaintiffs allege
the CPN Defendants interfered with Plaintiffs’ efforts to repair their Unit,
including by obstructing access to the HOA’s insurance funds.
           On June 20, 2023, CPN Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint
against Defendant Khachatryan, alleging causes of action for (1) Indemnity and
(2) Contribution.  
           On January 3, 2024, CPN Defendants filed their Answer to
SAC.  
           On August 19, 2024, Defendant Khachatryan filed the instant
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a response. No reply has been filed. 
           II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
“A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. … A party shall obtain leave of court to file
any cross-complaint…” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10.) If the proposed
cross-complaint is permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interest
of justice” at any time during the course of the action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (c).) On the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory, then leave must be granted so long as the defendant is acting in
good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)  
The purpose of the
compulsory cross-complaint statute is to prevent piecemeal litigation.  (Align
Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 959.)  Compulsory
cross-complaints consist of those causes of action existing at the time of
service of the answer that the defendant must bring against the plaintiff, or
else forfeit the right to bring them in any other action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
426.30, subd. (a).) Specifically, compulsory cross-complaints consist of the
causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff
alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).) To avoid
piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term “transaction”—it is “
‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . . . but may embrace a
series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’ ” (Align Technology,
supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at p. 960.) 
Thus, determination that
the moving party acted in bad faith must be supported by substantial evidence.
(Ibid.; Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court
(1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We conclude that this principle of liberality
requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a
denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this section”].) 
III.     ANALYSIS
           A. Discussion
           Defendant Khachatryan moves for an order granting leave to
file a cross-complaint against CPN Defendants on the grounds on that he
recently took the deposition of non-party James Harvey from Maurehan Plumbing,
which has given rise to a theory of comparative fault. (Gonter Decl., ¶7, Ex.
B.) Defendant Khachatryan contends that he did not have adequate information
concerning the subject incident at the time he filed his Answer. Furthermore, Defendant
Khachatryan contends the cross-complaint will not cause any additional expense
or burden on discovery as it only pertains to indemnification, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. Moreover, Defendant Khachatryan asserts the
relative facts involved are the same and he has acted in good faith by
diligently conducting discovery, which has now resulted in him seeking leave to
file the proposed cross-complaint. 
           The Court notes that neither Plaintiffs nor CPN Defendants
filed a formal opposition to the present motion.  Defendant Khachatryan has shown that he acted
in good faith in not filing the cross-complaint earlier. As discussed above,
Defendant Khachatryan recently discovered facts giving rise to a potential
indemnity claim against CPN Defendants. Nonetheless, the trial is set for
September 30, 2024, which is three weeks away and Defendant Khachatryan concedes
that there may be some additional discovery needed regarding the litigation of
the proposed cross-complaint. Defendant Khachatryan does not specify the type of
additional discovery that would need to conducted or the timeframe for such
discovery.            Plaintiffs filed a response requesting that the
Cross-Complaint be severed to preserve the trial date. Plaintiffs note that “[p]ursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 36, this matter was set for preferential
trial.  Plaintiff Maureen Gonzalez is 89
years old and her health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudice to Plaintiff Maureen Gonzalez’s interest in the litigation.”  Plaintiffs further note that “[t]his matter
was initially set for trial on June 17, 2024.  However, due to good cause shown on Defendant
Vahe Khachatryan’s ex parte application to continue trial, Trial of this matter
was continued to September 30, 2024.”  The
Court notes that the CPN Defendants and Plaintiffs previously reached a settlement.  On June 20, 2023, the CPN Defendants
filed a cross-complaint against Defendant Khachatryan.  Therefore, under CCP section 1048(b), in
order to prevent prejudice to Plaintiff Gonzalez, the Court exercises
its discretion and severs the cross-complaints from trial on the Second Amended Complaint. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant Khachatryan’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint. Trial on the
Cross-Complaints will be heard after the trial on the underlying Second Amended
Complaint set for September 30, 2024.
           Defendant Khachatryan to give notice of this order. 
                  
Dated: September 11, 2024
 
                                                                
                                                                                
     JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT