  Case Number:  22PSCV01062    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Almarosa
Hernandez v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), the
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s
motion for summary adjudication of the Second Cause of Action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment to permit further discovery to be conducted. Plaintiff
Almarosa Hernandez’s opposition, if any, will be due 20 days before the new
hearing date per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(2).
Defendant’s reply, if any, will be due 11 days before the new hearing date per
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(4). 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a lemon law case. On September 15, 2022, plaintiff Almarosa
Hernandez (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for violation
of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, and fraudulent
inducement-concealment. 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant moved for summary adjudication. On December
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an affidavit in opposition to the motion and
requested a continuance to permit further discovery. Defendant did not reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,
italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 381-382.) 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc., supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.) 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Ibid.; see Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
DISCUSSION           
“If it appears from the
affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion
to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time
on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) 
            “[A] summary judgment is a drastic measure which deprives
the losing party of trial on the merits. To mitigate summary judgment's
harshness, the statute’s drafters included a provision making
continuances—which are normally a matter within the broad discretion of trial
courts—virtually mandated.... Where the opposing party submits an
adequate affidavit showing that essential facts may exist but cannot be
presented timely, the court must either deny summary judgment or grant a
continuance.” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34-35, italics added, internal citations and
quotation marks omitted.) “To make the requisite good faith showing, an
opposing party's declaration must show (1) the facts to be obtained are
essential to opposing the motion, (2) there is reason to believe such facts may
exist, and (3) the reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.
(Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 632, 643 (Chavez).) 
            In Plaintiff’s affidavit submitted in opposition to
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication, Plaintiff requests the Court
either deny Defendant’s motion or continue the hearing on it per Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), on the grounds that additional
evidence may exist to support Plaintiff’s opposition and that additional
discovery is needed. Plaintiff contends the parties had agreed to a deposition
of Defendant’s person most qualified and custodian of records to be taken on October
29, 2024, but Defendant did not appear for the deposition and Plaintiff still
has not deposed Defendant’s person most qualified. (Lupinek Affidavit, ¶¶ 4-6.)
Plaintiff also indicates that the parties are meeting and conferring regarding
Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery. (Lupinek Affidavit, ¶¶
8-9.) Plaintiff contends the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified
and Defendant’s responses to the written discovery for which the parties are
meeting and conferring may establish Defendant’s knowledge of the defective
nature of the transmission at issue. (Lupinek Affidavit, ¶¶ 13-14.) 
            The Court finds Plaintiff has made a good faith showing
to justify continuing the hearing on this motion. Whether Defendant knew of the
alleged transmission defects before Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle is
essential to Plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement-concealment claim, and the
deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified and resolution of issues
regarding Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery would likely
lead to discovery of facts relevant to that issue. (See Chavez, supra,
238 Cal.App.4th at p. 643.) Also, the Court notes that an informal discovery
conference regarding the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified is
scheduled for the same date as the hearing on the motion for summary
adjudication. Considering this issue is one of the reasons Plaintiff seeks this
continuance, it makes sense to resolve this issue before the Court ultimately
rules on the motion. 
            Therefore, per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (h), the Court will CONTINUE the hearing on Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication to permit the parties to conduct additional discovery.        
CONCLUSION 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), the
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s
motion for summary adjudication of the Second Cause of Action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment to permit further discovery to be conducted. Plaintiff
Almarosa Hernandez’s opposition, if any, will be due 20 days before the new
hearing date per Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(2).
Defendant’s reply, if any, will be due 11 days before the new hearing date per
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(4). 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.