 Case Number:  24PSCV01151    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Roundway
Import Inc v. Ahmed Enterprise LLC, et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order Compelling Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC to Produce Documents
Requested 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Roundway Import Inc’s motion for order
compelling Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC to produce documents requested. Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC
must provide verified code-compliant responses without objection and all
responsive documents to counsel for Plaintiff no later than 20 days from the
date of this order. 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,185.00, and orders Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC to pay such
monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 20 days of this order. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On April 11, 2024, plaintiff Roundway
Import Inc (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Ahmed Enterprise
LLC.AKA Elite Tire and Wheel Wholesale (Ahmed Enterprise), Sarfraz Ahmed, and
Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for breach of written contract,
unjust enrichment, account stated, open book account, and goods sold and
delivered. 
On December 10, 2024, Plaintiff moved for an order compelling Defendant
Ahmed Enterprise to produce documents requested. On December 20, 2024, Ahmed
Enterprise opposed the motion. Plaintiff did not reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a party fails to serve a timely response
to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order
compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although
meeting and conferring is not required before bringing motions to compel, the
Court appreciates Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer before bringing this
motion. (Shang Decl., ¶¶ 6-8; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The Court does
request, however, that the parties meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference going forward. (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are
required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
before filing any motion”].) 
            Analysis 
            Plaintiff seeks to compel responses
to Plaintiff’s first set of requests for production of documents served on Defendant
Ahmed Enterprise on September 18, 2024. (Shang Decl., ¶ 2.) Despite having
granted an extension, Ahmed Enterprise failed to provide any responses or
responsive documents. (Shang Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) In opposition, Ahmed Enterprise
does not dispute having failed to provide responses or responsive documents. 
The
Court finds Plaintiff’s motion well taken. Plaintiff has presented sufficient
evidence demonstrating service of the underlying discovery requests on Ahmed
Enterprise and Ahmed Enterprise’s lack of responses and responsive documents.
Moreover, Ahmed Enterprise does not dispute having failed to provide responses
or responsive documents, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that
Plaintiff’s arguments are meritorious. (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1964)
60 Cal.2d 723, 728, fn. 4 [where nonmoving party fails to oppose a ground for a
motion, "it is assumed that [nonmoving party] concedes" that
ground].) Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion. Defendant Ahmed Enterprise must
provide verified code-compliant responses without objection and all responsive
documents to counsel for Plaintiff no later than 20 days from the date of this order.
            With
respect to monetary sanctions, Plaintiff seeks $5,735.00, which Ahmed
Enterprise contends is unreasonable and should be reduced. The Court agrees
with Ahmed Enterprise. This is a straightforward motion to compel responses and
does not warrant the 8.5 hours requested. The Court also finds Plaintiff’s
counsel’s rate of $550.00 excessive for the relevant legal community, and will
reduce it to $450.00 per hour. “The courts repeatedly have stated that the trial court is in the
best position to value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her
courtroom [citation]….” (569 E. Cnty. Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against
the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 436-437.) 
Accordingly, the Court awards monetary sanctions in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendant in the reduced amount of $1,185.00, comprised
of 1.5 hours preparing the motion and 1.0 hour appearing at the hearing on the
motion, for a total of 2.5 hours, multiplied by the reduced hourly rate of
$450.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee. Defendant Ahmed Enterprise must pay said
monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 20 days of this order.
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Roundway Import Inc’s motion for order
compelling Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC to produce documents requested. Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC
must provide verified code-compliant responses without objection and all
responsive documents to counsel for Plaintiff no later than 20 days from the
date of this order. 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,185.00, and orders Defendant Ahmed Enterprise LLC to pay such
monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 20 days of this order. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.