 Case Number:  24PSCV02798    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Zijie  Zhuo v. Hsiang Chen Woodby  Defendant  Hsiang Chen Woodby’s Motion to Set Aside Default  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Hsiang Chen Woodby’s motion to set  aside default. The Court hereby VACATES the default entered against Defendant  on October 15, 2024, and orders Defendant to file and serve the proposed answer  within five days of this order.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract case. On August 28, 2024, plaintiff Zijie  Zhuo (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Hsiang Chen Woodby (Defendant)  and Does 1 to 10, alleging one cause of action for breach of contract.  On November 5, 2024, Defendant moved to set aside the default  entered against her. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), “the  court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal  representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken  against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable  neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under this section is  mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is  discretionary. (Ibid.) An application for relief must be made no more  than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought and must  be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s  mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Ibid.; English v. IKON  Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)  DISCUSSION  Summary  of Arguments  Defendant  seeks to set aside the default entered against her on October 15, 2024, on the  grounds of mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect. More specifically,  Defendant contends that she is currently suffering from breast cancer and  undergoing chemotherapy which leaves her weak, fatigued, and not in the best  state of mind when she received the complaint. Defendant contends that Plaintiff  is also suing Defendant’s company, Uetek, which is currently in bankruptcy  proceedings. Defendant contends that she misunderstood the complaint when she  received it, thinking it was related to the aforementioned bankruptcy  proceedings because she had no personal dealings with Plaintiff. Defendant also  contends this motion is timely and that Code of Civil Procedure section 473  must be construed to prevent injustice and ensure this case is heard on its  merits.  Analysis              The Court finds Defendant is  entitled to setting aside the entry of default. The policy favoring  adjudication on the merits is strong. “[D]oubts must be  resolved in  favor of relief, with an order denying relief scrutinized more  carefully than an order granting it. [Citation.]” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 134, italics in original.) The  Court finds Defendant’s mistake of confusing the complaint with the bankruptcy  proceedings involving Uetek when she is also undergoing chemotherapy to be  understandable and therefore excusable. (Woodby Decl., ¶¶ 2-5; see Code Civ.  Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Defendant also moved to set aside the default within 20  days of its entry, and is therefore well within the six month time limit. (See ibid.)  Additionally, Plaintiff did not oppose this motion, which the Court construes  as a tacit admission that Defendant’s arguments are meritorious. (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60  Cal.2d 723, 728, fn. 4 [where nonmoving party fails to oppose a ground for a  motion, "it is assumed that [nonmoving party] concedes" that  ground].)   Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion and  hereby VACATES the default entered against Defendant on October 15, 2024.  Defendant must file and serve the proposed answer attached as Exhibit 3 to the  motion within five days of this order.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Hsiang Chen Woodby’s motion to set  aside default. The Court hereby VACATES the default entered against Defendant  on October 15, 2024, and orders Defendant to file and serve the proposed answer  within five days of this order.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.