  Case Number:  23STCV01367    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  39 John
Doe v. OptumCare Management, LLC, et al.
Case
No. 23STCV01367
Motion
to Vacate Order Compelling Arbitration
 
Plaintiff
John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful termination action against OptumCare
Management, Inc. (“Optum”), UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (“United”), Maria
Orozco, and Veronica Ramirez (collectively, “Defendants”). The Court granted
Optum and United’s motion for a judgment on the pleadings with respect to the
third and fourth causes of action.  Defendants then moved to compel
arbitration of the remaining claims.  The Court granted the motion and
ordered arbitration on September 12, 2023.  Now, Plaintiff moves to vacate
the Court’s order and return this case to the Superior Court.
 
The
Court does not have sufficient information to resolve the motion.  The
Court ordered arbitration on September 12, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel
represents: “Shortly thereafter, I submitted this Court’s arbitration order and
other documentation to AAA to open the arbitration matter.  I also
immediately paid Plaintiff’s portion of the fees due.”  (Declaration of
Emanuel Shirazi, ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff’s counsel does not include the
“documentation” he submitted to AAA or any proof of the payment, e.g., a copy
of the check or electronic transfer, a copy of the receipt/confirmation from
AAA, etc.  Under normal circumstances, the Court would accept Plaintiff’s
counsel’s representation.  In this case, however, AAA sent a letter on
October 10, 2023, requesting Plaintiff’s payment of the $25 fee within one
week.  This suggests that Plaintiff did not, in fact, pay the required fee
shortly after the Court ordered the case to proceed by way of
arbitration.  Further contributing to the ambiguity on this issue,
Defendants’ counsel requested this very information from Plaintiff’s counsel,
but the request went “unanswered.”  (See Defendant’s Memorandum of Points
and Authorities, pp. 2:28-3:1.)
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.      
The Court advances and continues the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to vacate
the Court’s order compelling arbitration from January 18, 2024, to February 2,
2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
2.      
The Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to file a supplemental declaration with
proof that he paid the $25 administrative fee to initiate the arbitration and
the date of the payment.  The Court provides notice: If Plaintiff’s
counsel fails to do so, absent good cause, the Court will assume based upon
AAA’s letter of October 10, 2023, that Plaintiff did not, in fact, pay the
required $25 fee to initiate this arbitration.
 
3.      
Plaintiff’s supplemental declaration shall be due on or before January 23,
2024.  Defendants’ counsel may file a response on or before January 30,
2024.
 
4.      
The Court’s clerk shall provide notice via email and regular mail.  