 Case Number:  23TRCV02385    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 9, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02385
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Brian
Whitaker v. K-Cork, Inc.
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff
Brian Whitaker
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant K-Cork, Inc. 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        November 18, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Compel Defendant K-Cork, Inc. to Provide Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED with specific rulings
as to each special interrogatory that will limit the evidence Defendant may
offer at trial given its second supplemental responses.  
                                                (2)
DENIED
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿¿ 
 
On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff
Brian Whitaker (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant Complaint against Defendant
K-Cork, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action: (1) violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act and (2) violation of the California Disabled Persons
Act. Plaintiff is a quadriplegic who uses a wheelchair. He alleges Defendant
failed to provide accessible dining surfaces when Plaintiff went to KC’s Crepes
Café, owned by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 1, 8,
13.)
 
Defendant filed its answer on
January 22, 2024. On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff served Set One of Special
Interrogatories on Defendant. (Motion to Compel, p. 3.) On June 27, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel requested a fifteen-day extension, which Plaintiff agreed
to. (Motion to Compel, p. 3.) On July 1, 2024, Defendant served responses, and
Plaintiff’s counsel contacted Defendant the next day “regarding the boilerplate
responses, questioning if they were sent due to an oversight of the previously
granted extension.” (Motion to Compel, p. 4.) Defendant stated they did not
receive Plaintiff’s agreement to the extended deadline, and Plaintiff’s counsel
reiterated that the new response deadline was July 22, 2024. (Motion to Compel,
p. 4.) 
 
Defendant did not provide
updated responses by the extended deadline, and Plaintiff sent a meet and
confer letter on July 23, 2024, advising Plaintiff would file a motion to
compel if Defendant did not send responses by July 24, 2024. On July 26, 2024,
Defendant requested another two-week extension, and on August 7, 2024,
Defendant requested another five-day extension. (Motion to Compel, p. 4.)
 
On August 9, 2024, Defendant
served responses, and on August 13, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent another meet
and confer letter regarding Defendant’s “vague and evasive responses.” (Motion
to Compel, pp. 4–5.) Plaintiff’s counsel set another deadline of August 14,
2024, and on that day, Defendant requested another two-week extension. (Motion
to Compel, p. 5.) 
 
On September 2, 2024,
Defendant served responses, but did not address most of Plaintiff’s issues in
the previous meet and confer letter. (Motion to Compel, p. 5.) Plaintiff’s
counsel sent another email on September 7, 2024, narrowing down the discovery
requests and reiterating Plaintiff’s intention to compel responses. (Motion to
Compel, p. 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel called Defendant’s counsel on September 11,
2024, repeating the contents of the email and requesting a response by end of
day, indicating Plaintiff would proceed with the motion to compel if no
response was received. (Motion to Compel, p. 5.)
 
B.    ¿¿Procedural  
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Compel
Supplemental Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.
On September 25, 2024, Defendant
filed an Opposition to the motion. On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply,
erroneously titled Reply re Document Production Requests rather than special interrogatories.  The Court considered the Reply nonetheless. 
¿¿ 
¿II. MEET
AND CONFER
            
            ¿¿A Motion Compelling Further
Responses to Interrogatories requires a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
Plaintiff has met the meet and confer requirements. On July 2,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel contacted Defendant’s counsel regarding Defendant’s
responses. (Declaration of Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel then sent a meet and confer letter on July 23, 2024, after
Defendant failed to serve responses by the extended deadline. (Declaration of
Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 7.) On August 13, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a second meet and confer letter regarding Defendant’s
“vague and evasive supplemental responses.” (Declaration of Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 11.) Still unsatisfied with Defendant’s
responses, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email on September 7, 2024. (Declaration
of Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 15.) Defendant did not
respond. (Declaration of Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff’s counsel then called Defendant’s counsel on September 11, 2024, and
left a voicemail reiterating the contents of the September 7 email.
(Declaration of Sumedh Rishi, ¶ 17.)
¿¿¿ 
¿III.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.             
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, subdivision (a), provides that a party
may bring a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories if the
demanding party deems that (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate; or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general. 
 
The
propounding party must submit a meet and confer declaration and a separate
statement that provides the information necessary to understand each discovery
request. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).) In lieu of a separate statement, the court may allow the moving
party to submit an outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(2).)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel
further supplemental responses to its Special Interrogatories on the grounds
that Defendant “has provided evasive, meritless, and boilerplate objections…”
(Motion to Compel, p. 8.) Plaintiff argues that the following requests remain
at issue:
 
Special Interrogatory No. 7:
When was the subject property built?
 
Defendant’s second
supplemental response states, after a series of meritless objections, “unknown.”  Defendant indicates it lacks records to
ascertain the date the subject property was built, which is discoverable in disability
access cases because the date of construction affects which if any
architectural standards apply.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant must make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain
the information requests by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations
and could have found the requested information from the property owner.  The Court’s tentative ruling is that the objections
are overruled, the “unknown” answer shall stand with Defendant implicitly
having made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry given the looming trial
date, and Defendant being expressly placed at risk at trial of being unable to
assert a defense that Plaintiff or his expert are applying the wrong architectural
standards because of the date of construction. 

 
Special Interrogatories Nos.
8 and 9: Identify financial wherewithal and financial status documents
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
responses look like perjury, as Defendant responded “None” to requests for
identification of financial documents and financial status of the property,
which Plaintiff alleges Defendant must maintain under California law. (Separate
Statement in Support of Motion to Compel, pp. 5, 7.) Plaintiff argues that the
requested information is crucial to preparing against Defendant’s possible
defense of financial hardship. The Court finds the objection meritorious, akin
to the Court’s ruling on the motion to compel documents heard on October 8,
2024, subject to Defendant being
barred from any defense at trial that it lacks the financial resources to make
changes to its dining areas and counter surfaces to comply with the ADA.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 13:
facts tending to show accessible dining surfaces not readily achievable
 
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant responded to this interrogatory, after a series of objections, with a
statement that its premises are already in compliance.  The thrust of the interrogatory is to
discovery facts based on a contention that Defendant apparently does not make here.  Accordingly, as with the financial records interrogatory, the Court denies the motion to compel this interrogatory subject
to Defendant being barred from any defense at trial that making the dining
surfaces at the subject property ADA-compliant is not readily achievable per 42
U.S.C. section 12181(9).  
 
B.             
Sanctions
 
¿ Code of Civil Procedure,
section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides that the court may impose a
monetary sanction on a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
sanctions in the amount of $3,660.00 for sanctions of Defendant’s failure to
respond to Requests for Production of Documents.  In light of the rulings noted above,
Defendant had substantial justification for some of the objections thus making
monetary sanctions inappropriate under the circumstances.   
 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 