 Case Number:  24TRCV00980    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 October  9, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00980  CASE NAME:                        Monica  Rigali v. Pelican Productions, Inc., et al.     RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff  Monica Rigali  TRIAL DATE:                        None  Set.  MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Claims                                                 (2)  Case Management Conference   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENY.  The arbitration  agreement plaintiff signed is unenforceable as to the entire case under EFAA.  The Court  DENIES severance, DENIES the requested  stay, and the Court will retain all of Plaintiff’s claims.                                                    (2)  The Court will conduct a CMC, which likely  will be continued to January of 2025 given the likely lack of formal discovery  to date given the pendency of the arbitration motion  I. BACKGROUND   A.    Factual   This case arises from the employment  relationship between Plaintiff Monica Rigali with Defendant Pelican Products,  Inc. from April 2023 to February 2024. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff Monica  Rigali (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Pelican Products, Inc.,  Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC, (collectively Defendants), James Curleigh, Kevin  Miniard, Jeffrey Goldberg, Philip Gyori and Does 1 through 50, inclusive. On  April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)  alleging eleven causes of action: (1) Hostile  Work Environment Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA; (2) Discrimination on  the Basis of Sex/Gender in Violation of FEHA; (3) Failure to Prevent  Discrimination and Harassment in Violation of FEHA; (4) Retaliation in  Violation of FEHA; (5) Whistleblower Retaliation (Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5); (6)  Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (7) Intentional Infliction  of Emotional Distress; (8) Defamation; (9) Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract  Not to Terminate Employment; (10) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing; and (11) Declaratory Judgment.   The FAC alleges the following: April 10, 2023, Plaintiff  began her employment with Defendant Pelican Products, Inc. as Senior Vice  President of Marketing & Product Development. (FAC, ¶ 16.)  In or around May 2023, a male executive allegedly  spread a false rumor that Plaintiff was involved in the “Me Too” Movement  during her tenure as a Nike employe. (FAC ¶ 22.)  The FAC contains numerous other allegations of  allegedly harassing and/or discriminatory misconduct both in the workplace and  also on a business trip.  The FAC further  alleges that in response to sex-based harassment, Plaintiff spoke up and  complained about the environment at Pelican.  Allegedly in retaliation, on February 20,  2024, Defendants wrongfully terminated Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 39.)   B.     Procedural    On March 13, 2024, Pelican initiated arbitration against  Rigali for the return of her $75,000 signing bonus and for breach of the  Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.   On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the FAC.   On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to  Compel Arbitration. Pursuant to the Motion, Defendants also requests a stay of  this action pending the completion of arbitration. Defendants also move to  compel Defendants James Curleigh, Kevin Miniard,  Jeffrey Goldberg, and Philip Gyori to arbitration.    On May 29, 2024, Defendant James Curleigh filed an Answer.   On June 3, 2024, Defendant Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC  filed an Answer.   On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to  Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration. On June 21, 2024, Defendants  filed a reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition.   The Court held a hearing on the motion and after taking oral argument  took the matter under submission.  But at  the September 11, 2024 CMC, the parties requested to submit supplemental  briefing and to re-set the arbitration motion for a hearing, which was then  scheduled for October 9, 2024.  The Court’s  June 2024 tentative ruling discussed the dearth of case law concerning the  federal statute entitled “Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and  Sexual Harassment Act,” known by the acronym EFAA.   On  September 30, 2024, Defendants filed a supplemental brief in support of their  Motion to Compel Arbitration, addressing recent EFAA decisions.  That same day, Plaintiff filed a supplemental  brief in opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Compel, also discussing recent  EFAA precedents.     II. ANALYSIS    A.     Legal  Standard  “A party  who claims that there is a written agreement to arbitrate may petition the  superior court for an order to compel arbitration” pursuant to California Code  of Civil Procedure section 1281.2. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior  Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) “On petition of a party to an  arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to  arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate  that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to  arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the  controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel  arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for  rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) Parties may be  compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a  valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers  the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute. (Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  A party  opposing a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving by a  preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Banner  Entertainment, Inc., supra, 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) Where a  petition to compel arbitration is granted, a court “shall, upon motion of a  party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an  arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such  earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.) “[T]here is  no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they  have not agreed to arbitrate.” (DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court  (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1352.) “[G]enerally one must be a party to an  arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Ibid.) “However,  both California and federal courts have recognized limited exceptions to this  rule, allowing nonsignatories to an agreement containing an arbitration clause  to compel arbitration of, or be compelled to, arbitrate a dispute arising  within the scope of that agreement.” (Id. at p. 1353.) “Even the strong  public policy in favor of arbitration does not extend to those who are not  parties to an arbitration agreement or who have not authorized anyone to act  for them in executing such an agreement.” (Suh v. Superior Court (2010)  181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1512.) “A nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when  a preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the  parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the  nonsignatory to arbitrate as well.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court  (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1240.) “Additionally, a nonsignatory can be  compelled to arbitrate when it is suing as a third-party beneficiary of the  contract containing the arbitration clause.” (Ibid.)    B.      Evidentiary Objections   In  opposition to the motion to compel arbitration, Plaintiff objects to the  declaration of Matthew Larsen and exhibit A. The Court rules as follows:    1.      Overruled 2.      Overruled 3.      Overruled 4.      Overruled 5.      Overruled 6.      Overruled 7.      Sustained  in part as to “signed by her” for lack of foundation. Overruled as to the rest. 8.      Overruled 9.      Overruled   C.     Discussion   1.       Existence of an  Arbitration Agreement   Under  both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are  valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law  or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions  Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) In ruling on a  motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the  parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of  California contract law help guide the court in making this  determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013)  220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) “With respect to the moving party’s burden to  provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is  generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the  court.” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th  1152, 1160.)  Defendants assert that Plaintiff  executed an enforceable arbitration agreement on March 30, 2023 during  Plaintiff’s onboarding process. In support of this assertion, Defendants  present the declaration of Matthew Larsen the Director of Human Resources of  Pelican Products, Inc. (Larsen Decl. ¶ 1.) As Director of Human  Resources, Larsen has access to Pelican’s records maintained in the ordinary  course of business and is one of the individuals responsible for overseeing Pelican’s  personnel records. (Larsen Decl. ¶ 2.) Larsen is also well-versed—in  relevant part—in the process of onboarding employees. (Larsen Decl. ¶ 4.)  Larsen describes Pelican’s  onboarding process. The onboarding process begins after a prospective employee  passes their background check. (Larsen Decl. ¶ 5.) A “candidate profile” is  created for the employee in Pelican’s online portal “SuccessFactors,” and the  profile is transferred to “onboarding status.” (Id. ¶ 5.) During  “onboarding status,” Pelican employees are provided with a link to their  profiles in SuccessFactors. (Id. ¶ 7.) SuccessFactors contain applicable  employment policies including Pelican’s arbitration agreement. (Id. ¶  6.) Within SuccessFactors, the relevant employment policies, including  Pelican’s arbitration agreement, are assigned to the employee’s unique profile  to be reviewed and completed. (Id. ¶ 6.) All California employees are  assigned unique Onboarding IDs and must create a confidential password, which  the employees using to electronically sign onboarding documents in  SuccessFactors. (Id. ¶ 7.) Larsen continues that Rigali’s  personnel records include an arbitration agreement, electronically signed with  the name “Monica Cushing Rigali on 03/30/2023.” (Id. ¶ 8; Exh. A.)  Larsen states he checked the logs in SuccessFactors, which reflects that the  electronic signature occurred at approximately 5:34 pm on March 30, 2023. (Id.)  Larsen also alleges that the individual who signed the documents that day used  Rigali’s unique Onboarding ID (“MRigali2252”) and the confidential password  Plaintiff created. (Id. ¶ 9.) Additionally, the logs showed that tax  documents related Plaintiff’s employment were completed that same day. (Id.  ¶ 8.) Larsen notes that confidential personal information was required to  complete these documents such as a social security number, date of birth,  address, and bank account information. (Id. ¶¶ 8-9.) The arbitration agreement provides in relevant part:  1. This Mutual Agreement to  Arbitrate Claims (the “Agreement”) is between  Monica Cushing Rigali (hereinafter  “Employee”) and Pelican Products, Inc. (hereinafter “Employer” or “Company”). 2. . . . This  Agreement is intended to provide an impartial, final, and binding dispute resolution  procedure for all disputes arising between the Company and Employee. Both  Employer and Employee voluntarily agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy  of any kind between Employee and Employer (or its owners, directors, officers,  employees, agent . . . ), including but not limited to claims or  controversies arising out of the employment relationship between Employee and Employer,  past, present, or future, or its termination, shall be subject to final and binding  arbitration. The Claims covered under this Agreement include, but are not limited  to claims based on tort, contract, statute, equity, or otherwise . . . Claims  subject to this Agreement include without limitation: claims for wages for  wages under applicable state or federal law, or other compensation due; claims  for breach of any contract or covenant (express or implied); tort claims;  claims for discrimination or harassment . . . claims for  retaliation . . . and claims for violation of any federal,  state, local or other governmental law, statute, regulation, or ordinance . . . including  but not limited to . . . the California Labor Code . . . the  California Fair Employment and Housing Act . . . and common  law causes of action concerning the employment context . . . . * * * * 3. . . . The  matter must be submitted to and determined exclusively by final and binding  arbitration conducted in conformity with the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”),  before a single Arbitrator. * * * * 6. . . . BY  VOLUNTARILY AGREEING TO THIS ARBITRATON AGREEMENT, EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE BOTH  GIVE UP THEIR RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY. * * * * (Larsen Decl.,  Exh. A at p. 1.)  The arbitration agreement appears to bear the electronic signature of  Plaintiff and is dated March 30, 2023. (Larsen Decl., Exh. A at p. 3.) “[D]efendants  may meet their initial burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a  copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s  signature.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group  (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060; see also Bannister v. Marinidence Opco,  LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet  its initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration  agreement purporting to bear the respondent's signature.”].)    Accordingly,  Defendants have met their initial burden by attaching arbitration agreements  purportedly bearing Plaintiff’s signature.   In  opposition, Plaintiff states in her declaration that she accepted Pelican’s  offer of employment on February 28, 2023. (Rigali Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff notes  that after signing Pelican’s offer letter, Pelican Human Resources sent her a  link to complete onboarding paperwork and told her “to complete and submit all  of the forms” as a condition of her employment. (Id. ¶ 3.) However,  Plaintiff “do[es] not remember an arbitration agreement being included in the  onboarding paperwork” and does not recognize the arbitration document attached  to the motion. (Id. ¶ 4.) Additionally, Plaintiff states that “[a]t no  point during [her] onboarding process or during [her] employment did anyone  explain to [her] that [she] was agreeing to arbitration, what arbitration was,  how it would affect [her] legal rights, or that [she] would not have a right to  a jury.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff also searched “all [her] emails at the email  address that Pelican was using to email [her] during [her] onboarding process,  and [she] did not find an email with an executed copy of the arbitration  agreement.” (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff does not explicitly state she did not  sign the arbitration agreement attached to the motion.   “Once  [Plaintiff] challenge[s] the validity of that signature in his opposition,  [Defendants] [are] then required to establish by a preponderance of the  evidence that the signature was authentic.” (Espejo v. Southern California  Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “Under Civil Code section 1633.7, enacted in 1999 as part of the Uniform  Electronic Transactions Act (Civ. Code, § 1633.1 et seq.; Stats. 1999, ch. 428,  § 1, pp. 2809–2816), an electronic signature has the same legal effect as a  handwritten signature (Civ. Code, § 1633.7, subd. (a) [‘A . . . signature  may not be denied legal effect or enforceability solely because it is in  electronic form.’] ).” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232  Cal.App.4th 836, 843.) However, “any writing must be authenticated before the  writing, or secondary evidence of its content, may be received in evidence.” (Ibid.)  “Authentication of a writing means (a) the introduction of evidence sufficient  to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence  claims it is or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other means provided  by law.” (Evid. Code, § 1400.)  For  purposes of electronic signatures, “[a]n electronic record or electronic  signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the person. The act  of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy  of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which the  electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Civ. Code, §  1633.9(a).) As noted in Ruiz, “[t]his [is] not a difficult evidentiary  burden to meet[.]” (Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) The Court  turns to the authenticity of the electronic signature of Plaintiff and whether  Defendants’ evidence shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the  electronic signature was an act of Plaintiff. Here, the evidence does so show.  In finding  that the authentication of an electronic signature was insufficient in Ruiz v.  Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., the Court specified what would have been  sufficient: Indeed, [the  business manager] did not explain that an electronic signature in the name of  [the plaintiff] “Ernesto Zamora Ruiz” could only have been placed on the 2011  agreement (i.e., on the employee acknowledgement form) by a person using Ruiz’s  “unique login ID and password”; that the date and time printed next to the  electronic signature indicated the date and time the electronic signature was  made; that all [the defendant] Moss Bros. employees were required to use their  unique login ID and password when they logged into the HR system and signed  electronic forms and agreements; and the electronic signature on the 2011  agreement was, therefore, apparently made by Ruiz on September 21, 2011, at  11:47 a.m. Rather than offer this or any other explanation of how she inferred  the electronic signature on the 2011 agreement was the act of [the plaintiff]  Ruiz, [the business manager] only offered her unsupported assertion that Ruiz  was the person who electronically signed the 2011 agreement. (Ruiz,  supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.)   As  noted above, Plaintiff does not actually claim that she did not sign the  arbitration agreement in 2023. Rather, Plaintiff only states that she does not  recognize the arbitration agreement and does not recall signing an arbitration  agreement. However, the weight of the evidence shows that, by a preponderance,  Plaintiff did sign the arbitration agreement.    As  stated by Larsen, specific measures are in place to show that a unique link was  sent to Plaintiff’s email and that Plaintiff had to create a password in order  to access and sign documents in SuccessFactors. (Larsen Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) As  noted in exhibit A, Plaintiff’s personnel records reflect that someone with  Plaintiff’s unique Onboarding ID electronically signed the Arbitration  Agreement on March 30, 2023 at 5:34 pm. (Larsen Decl, ¶¶ 8-9; Exh. A.) Moreover,  the logs also show that Plaintiff completed other documents that same day,  which required using confidential personal information that only Plaintiff  would know. (Larsen Decl., ¶ 8.) The evidence thus indicates to the  satisfaction of the Court that Plaintiff did sign or consent to the arbitration  agreement on March 30, 2023.    Applicable Law – Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) “A party  seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA  preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital  Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 684.) California law provides that  parties may expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding should move  forward under the FAA’s procedural provisions rather than under state  procedural law. (Cronus Investments, Inc.  v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394). Otherwise, the FAA  provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any “‘contract evidencing  a transaction involving commerce.’ (9 USC § 2.)” (Allied-Bruce Terminix  Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 277.) Accordingly,  “[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies by  presenting evidence establishing the contract with the  arbitration provision has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce[.]”  (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234, [italics  added].) Here, the  arbitration agreement expressly invokes the FAA. Specifically, the agreement  states that “[t]he matter must be submitted to and determined exclusively by  final and binding arbitration conducted in conformity with the Federal  Arbitration Act (“FAA”), before a single Arbitrator.” (Larsen Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A  at p. 1.) Moreover, Defendant Pelican operates commercially throughout the  United States, implicating interstate commerce. (Mot. to Compel, pg. 6:23-28.) Accordingly,  the FAA applies and will preempt California law if in conflict. Scope  of the Arbitration Agreement  Plaintiff’s  Claims The  arbitration agreement states in relevant part that: Both Employer and Employee voluntarily  agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy of any kind between  Employee and Employer (or its owners, directors, officers, employees, agent…), including  but not limited to claims or controversies arising out of the employment  relationship between Employee and Employer, past, present, or future, or  its termination, shall be subject to final and binding arbitration.  (Larsen Decl., Exh. A at p.  1 [italics added].) Here, all  of Plaintiff’s claims arise from Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant Pelican  and are expressly covered by the arbitration agreement. Accordingly,  Plaintiff’s claims are within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement. Enforcement Against Nonsignatories    An arbitration agreement may be enforced under  the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Under the  equitable estoppel doctrine, when a signatory’s claims against a nonsignatory are  “founded in and inextricably bound up with” the obligations imposed by the arbitration  agreement containing the arbitration clause, the nonsignatory may enforce the  arbitration agreement. (Pacific Fertility Cases (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th  887, 893 (internal quotes omitted).) However, “allegations of substantially  interdependent and concerted misconduct by signatories and nonsignatories,  standing alone, are not enough.” (Id.)   Where a signatory’s claims against  nonsignatory co-workers are rooted in an employment relationship with a signatory  employer, and “the governing arbitration agreement expressly” covers claims of  any kind between the signatory and the signatory employer’s nonsignatory employees,  the signatory is equitably estopped from refusing to arbitrate claims with  nonsignatory employees. (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782,  787-788.) Here, the arbitration agreement expressly provides that,  “[t]he Agreement is intended to provide an impartial, final, and binding  dispute resolution procedure for all disputes arising between the Company and  Employee. Both Employer and Employee voluntarily agree that any claim, dispute,  and/or controversy of any kind between Employee and Employer (or its owners, directors,  officers, employees, agent . . . ).” (Larsen Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. A at p. 1.)  Defendant Platinum  Equity Advisors, LLC allegedly owns Pelican Products, Inc. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Defendant  James Curleigh “an owner, supervisor, agent and/or employee of Defendants  Pelican and Platinum[.]” (FAC, ¶ 4, 23.) Defendant Kevin Miniard is Pelican’s  Chief Operating Officer, “an owner, supervisor, agent and/or employee of  Defendants Pelican and Platinum[.]” (FAC, ¶ 5, 23.) Defendant Jeffrey Goldberg  was “an owner, supervisor, agent and/or employee of Defendants Pelican and  Platinum[.]” (FAC, ¶ 6.) Defendant Philip Gyori was Pelican’s Chief Executive  Officer, “an owner, supervisor, agent and/or employee of Defendants Pelican and  Platinum[.]” (FAC, ¶ 7, 16.) Thus, as owners, agents,  and employees of Pelican, Platinum Equity, Curleigh, Miniard, Goldberg, and  Gyori are nonsignatories covered by the Arbitration Agreement.  Moreover, the FAC alleges that when the alleged misconduct  occurred, each of the Defendants acted as agent and/or employees and under/the  direction or control of the other Defendants within the scope and course of  this agency, employment and direction/control. (Jenks v. DLA Piper Rudnick  Gray Cary US LLP (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 1, 10 [finding that under both  federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may  invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims  when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are “intimately founded in  and intertwined” with the underlying contract obligations.].)  By having alleged that all defendants acted as agents of  one another, and in the absence of contrary evidence, Plaintiff is bound by the  legal consequences of her allegations. (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204  Cal.App.4th 605, 614-615.)  Thus,  Defendants Pelican and Platinum are entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement  against all nonsignatory Defendants.   Therefore,  the Court finds that Defendants have met their burden to show an arbitration  agreement exists which covers all Plaintiff’s claims and all Defendants, both  signatories and non-signatories. The Court  now analyzes Plaintiff’s EFAA challenge to the arbitration agreement’s  enforceability.    2.      The  arbitration agreement is unenforceable because the Ending Forced Arbitration of  Sexual Assault Act prohibits pre-dispute arbitration in cases comprised of both  sexual harassment and non-sexual claims. Plaintiff’s next basis for opposing  the motion to compel arbitration is that the Ending Forced Arbitration of  Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (EFAA)—i.e., 9 U.S.C. §  402—prohibits enforcement of the instant arbitration agreement for all her  claims.  The Court specifically requested  briefing as to recent decisions under the EFAA when it re-scheduled the hearing  on this motion.  One recent decision only  just came down on September 30, 2024. Under the Federal Arbitration Act, in  cases presenting multiple claims some of which are arbitrable and some not, only  “the former must be sent to arbitration even if this will lead to piecemeal  litigation.” (Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 24, 2023) 657  F.Supp.3d 535, 558.) However, the FAA “may be ‘overridden by a contrary  congressional command,’” such as the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual  Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (EFAA), which applies “[n]otwithstanding  any other provision of the” FAA. (Doe v. Second Street Corp. (Ct. of  App. 2nd App. Dist. September 30, 2024, B330281) [nonpub. Opn.], at p. 10,  quoting 9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  Doe v.  Second Street ordered the entire case, not merely the cases sounding in  sexual harassment or sexual assault, to be exempt from an arbitration  agreement.   The EFAA provides that: “at the  election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment  dispute or sexual assault dispute, . . . no predispute  arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or  enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal,  or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual  harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a) [emphasis added].) “The term  ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged  to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State  law.” (9 U.S.C. § 401(4).)  Plaintiff plausibly plead her  sexual harassment claim. “[W]here a party seeks to invoke  the EFAA based on a claim of sexual harassment, such a claim must have been  plausibly pled.” (Yost v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d  563, 567.) California’s Fair Employment and  Housing Act (FEHA), it is unlawful for an employer to harass an employee on the  basis of “sex, gender, gender identity, [or] gender expression.” (Cal. Gov’t  Code § 12940(j)(1).) “Harassment of an employee” is unlawful “if the entity, or  its agents or supervisors, knows or should have known of this conduct and fails  to take immediate and appropriate corrective action.” (Ibid.) “To plead a cause of action for  [hostile work environment] sexual harassment, it is ‘only necessary to show  that gender is a substantial factor in the discrimination, and that if the  plaintiff had been a man she would not have been treated in the same manner.’  [Citation.]” (Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television Productions (2006)  38 Cal.4th 264, 280 quoting Accardi v. Superior Court (1993) 17  Cal.App.4th 341, 348.) Prohibited harassment includes “verbal, physical,  and visual harassment, as well as unwanted sexual advances.” (Cal.Code Regs.,  tit. 2, § 7291.1, subd. (f)(1); see also Lyle, supra, 38 Cal.4th  at p. 280-281 [referring to verbal harassment aa “epithets, derogatory  comments, or slurs on the basis of sex”; physical harassment as “assault,  impeding or blocking movement, or any physical interference with normal work or  movement, when directed at an individual on the basis of sex”; and visual harassment  as “derogatory posters, cartoons, or drawings on the basis of sex”].) Prohibited  sexual harassment also includes behavior so offensive it “alters the  ‘conditions’ the victim’s employment.” (Id. at p. 282-283 quoting Oncale  v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc. (1998) 523 U.S. 75 at p. 81.) Harassment does  not include conduct where “a supervisor or coworker simply uses crude or  inappropriate language in front of employees or draws a vulgar picture, without  directing sexual innuendos or gender-related language toward a plaintiff or  toward women in general.” (Lyle at p. 282 [citations omitted].) Also harassment  does not include comments that could be repeated on “primetime television.” (Lyle  at p. 282.) Plaintiff  asserts that she properly pleads visual and verbal examples of sexual assault or  harassment through detailed factual allegations. Plaintiff states sexual  harassment occurred when she was informed of a sexual relationship between a  male executive and a female subordinate, noting that a reasonable person may be  affected by the knowledge that others are being sexually harassed in the  workplace even if Plaintiff does not witness the conduct. (FAC, ¶ 29, citing Beyda  v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 519.) Next, Plaintiff  asserts that Defendant Goldberg referred to her as “cunt,” screamed “blow me!”  at her when trying to make a point and referred to another individual as a  “fag.” (FAC, ¶ 30(b).) Additionally, Plaintiff states that in or around June  2023, Defendant Gyori shared sexually explicit content from an Instagram page  with her. (FAC, ¶ 27.) The content included images of “women in revealing  clothing” sitting on or with the advertised products as part of another  company’s marketing of their products, and Defendant Gyori touted the posing of  scantily clad women as “good marketing” that Plaintiff should consider using in  her marketing role with Pelican. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also alleged that the  images were projected during a meeting in Pelican’s main conference room in  Plaintiff’s presence. (Ibid.)    Finally,  in November of 2023, while on a work-related trip to Asia, Defendant Goldberg  “made numerous highly inappropriate and explicit comments” to Plaintiff that  suggested male executives, like Genghis Khan or other “kings,” could have a  sexual relationship with any female employees of their choosing with impunity.  (FAC, ¶ 30.) Plaintiff also alleges that Pelican terminated Goldberg’s  employment a month later after Plaintiff and other employees had reported his  misconduct to the Human Resources department at Pelican, i.e. allegedly  retaliated against Plaintiff for reporting misconduct. (FAC, ¶ 34.) From  Goldberg’s termination through her own termination in February 2024, Plaintiff  alleges Defendants Curleigh and Miniard subjected her to further harassment and  harsh scrutiny in retaliation for her complaint against Goldberg, and that  Defendants provided Plaintiff with no relief for the unequal treatment she  suffered under Goldberg. (FAC, ¶¶ 35-38.)   Defendants  counter that Plaintiff’s allegations do not plausibly plead a sexual harassment  claim because the allegations are not “severe or perverse.” Defendants  analogizes Plaintiff’s allegations to those of the plaintiff in Prerna Singh  v. MeetUP LLC, an unpublished U.S. District Court case. (Prerna Singh v.  MeetUp LLC (No. 23-CV-9502, S.D.N.Y. August 22, 2024) WL 3904799 at *2-3.)  In Singh, the plaintiff supported her sexual harassment claim by  alleging that the CEO “exhibited a pattern of discounting [her] contributions  and favor[ed] male employees over her”; showed preferences with higher pay,  promotions, and work assignments toward equal or lesser performing male  employees; and subjected her to “false and baseless performance criticisms” as  a pretext for her termination. (Id. at pp. * 2-3, 10, 16). There, the court  dismissed Singh’s case finding her allegations did not rise to the level  “sexual harassment” under NYCHRL, New York’s sexual harassment law. (Ibid.)     The  Court disagrees with Defendants’ argument and characterization of Plaintiff’s  allegations. Here, unlike the plaintiff in Singh, Plaintiff has plead  several facts supporting a claim of hostile work environment sexual harassment.  Plaintiff provides time frames, specific words and phrases, and conduct that  plausibly alleges sexual harassment. Considering that Plaintiff’s short-lived employment  lasted from ten months and that the alleged sexual harassment allegations  occurred over the course of two months (from October 2023 through November  2023) with alleged retaliation lasting for four months (from November 2023  until her termination), Plaintiff has plausibly plead a claim for hostile work  environment sexual harassment and alleged that all other claims were related to  the sexual harassment claim.    Thus,  the Court finds that Plaintiff has plausibly plead enough facts to support a  FEHA claim for hostile work environment sexual harassment. The sexual harassment nature  of a portion of the suit’s allegations are sufficient to bar the Defendants  from arbitrating all of multitude of allegations Plaintiff argues that where a case  presents multiple claims—some related to sexual harassment, others not—the EFAA  blocks arbitration of the entire case, not just the sexual harassment  claims,” making pre-dispute arbitration agreements unenforceable with respect  to “the entire case relating to the dispute.” (Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc.  (S.D.N.Y. February 24, 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535, 550-551 [emphasis added].)  The word “case” refers to the “entire action”  or to “a civil or criminal proceeding, action, suit, or controversy at law  or in equity,” which reflects an “undivided whole” and “does not differentiate  among causes of action within it.” (Doe v. Second Street Corp., supra,  B330281 at p. 26; Delo, supra, 685 F.Supp.3d at p. 180-181.)   The EFAA, “in contrast to the FAA,  demonstrates Congress’s preference that plaintiffs alleging sexual harassment  be permitted to be heard in court and not be compelled to arbitration.” (Turner  v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 686 F.Supp.3d 917, 925.) Where the “core”  of a case alleges conduct constituting a “sexual harassment dispute,” as  defined by the EFAA, the EFAA permits a finding that an arbitration agreement  is unenforceable. (Ibid.) Plaintiff  argues that the nature of her FEHA sexual harassment claim requires the EFAA to  apply to her entire “case.” (Johnson v. Everyrealm Inc., supra, 657  F.Supp.3d at p. 558] [“the EFAA’s provision that a litigant may elect to  invalidate an arbitration agreement for any ‘case’ requires courts to render  such agreements unenforceable for an entire case.”] (emphasis added).) In that  case, Judge Engelmayer held “that, where a claim in a case alleges ‘conduct  constituting a sexual harassment dispute’ as defined, the EFAA, at the election  of the party making such an allegation, makes pre-dispute arbitration  agreements unenforceable with respect to the entire case relating to that  dispute.” (Id. at 565.)  In Johnson,  the plaintiff raised claims of sexual harassment, along with disparate  treatment claims not arising from sexual harassment such as race  discrimination, pay discrimination, whistleblower retaliation and intentional  infliction of emotional distress.  Judge  Engelmayer ordered all of those claims, i.e., the entire case, to remain in the  court system, finding the arbitration provision to be unenforceable even as to  claims that did not allege sexual harassment or discrimination.  Justice Edmon in the Second District found Johnson  to be more persuasive in her very recent decision in Doe v. Second Street  Corp., supra. Several other  cases from the Southern District of New York concur with Johnson, holding  that “where a dispute presents multiple claims—some related to sexual  harassment, others not—the EFAA blocks arbitration of the entire case.” Delo  v. Paul Taylor Dance Found., Inc., 685 F. Supp. 3d 173, 180 (S.D.N.Y. 2023);  see Newton v. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Inc. (S.D.N.Y., Aug. 23,  2024, No. 23-CV-10753) 2024 WL 3925757, p. *7.)    Defendants  argue that even if the Court finds that Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim is  properly plead, the Court should severe this claim from all her other claims.  Defendants allege the decision of whether to severe this claim is to be  determined by Federal law and that such authority requires severance.  Defendants cite Turner v. Tesla, Inc. to argue that the severity of the  alleged sexual harassment claim determines whether a court should separate  unrelated claims from a case brought under the EFAA. (Def.’s Reply & Suppl.  Brief, pg. 16:7-10.) However, Turner does not help Defendants here.   In Turner,  the plaintiff alleged seven causes of action stemming from her employment at  Tesla, five of which stemmed directly from allegations of sexual harassment while  the other two did not, but Judge Orrick found the other two were “intertwined  with” the sexual harassment claims.  (Turner,  supra, 686 F.Supp.3d at p. 921.)  Judge  Orrick noted at p. 925 of his decision that while severing the arbitrable from  non-arbitrable claims would ordinarily be appropriate under the FAA, citing KPMG  LLP v. Cocchi, 565 U.S. 18, 22 (2011), in the context of EFAA the arbitration  agreement was unenforceable as to the entire case because the core of Ms.  Turner’s case alleges “conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute.”   Defendants also cite Mera v. SA  Hospitality Groups, LLC (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 675 F.Supp.3d 442 for support. In Mera,  the Southern District of New York held that under the EFAA, “an arbitration  agreement executed by an individual alleging conduct constituting a sexual  harassment dispute is unenforceable . . . only with respect  to the claims in the case that relate to the sexual harassment dispute.” (Id.  at p. 447; 9 U.S.C. § 402(a).) The Mera court came to this conclusion  because the plaintiff brought harassment claims that were unique to him and he  also included in his lawsuit “unrelated” wage-and-hour claims on behalf of other  employees. (Id. at p. 448.)  Magistrate  Judge Aaron in the Southern District of New York thus ordered the wage and hour  claims under the Fair Labor Standards Act and New York state statutes to  arbitration, notwithstanding EFAA.  Thus,  Mera does support Defendants’ position here.   EFAA applies to any dispute alleging  sexual assault or sexual harassment that “arises or accrues on or after the  date of enactment of [the EFAA] [March 3, 2022].  (Arouh v. GAN Limited (C.D. Cal., Mar.  22, 2024, No. 8:23-CV-02001-FWS) 2024 WL 3469032, at *6.)  Arough held that EFAA did not apply to the  plaintiff’s allegations there, which based on events that occurred between  December 2021 and February 2022 and that Plaintiff “already raised his claims  in February 2022” through an attorney letter to Defendants and a Complaint filed  with the DFEH.  Here, Plaintiff’s FAC  alleges she began her employment on April 10, 2023 (FAC ¶16) and that the  alleged acts of claimed sexual harassment occurred thereafter.  Accordingly, the Court finds that EFAA does  apply here.       This Court chooses to follow the  Second District in Doe v. Second Street Corp. and the series of cases  cited therein including Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. and Turner rather  than Mera.  As stated above,  Plaintiff plausibly plead a claim for hostile work environment sexual harassment  under FEHA. As such, even if Plaintiff’s other causes of action did not arise  from the sexual harassment claim, all of Plaintiff’s other causes of action  “relate” to the sexual harassment claim because Plaintiff asserts her causes of  action against the same defendants, and her causes of action arise from her  employment at Pelican. Thus, the EFAA renders the arbitration agreement  Plaintiff signed to be unenforceable as to the entire case.  Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to  compel arbitration, DENIES severance of the causes of action, DENIES the  requested stay, and the Court retains all Plaintiff’s claims.    III. CONCLUSION   Plaintiff is to give notice of  the Court’s ruling.  