 Case Number:  22TRCV00429    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 9, 2024                      
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00429
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        
Joseph Gazal v. Charlie Ecvheverry, aka Carlos Echeverry, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants
Charlie Echeverry aka Carlos Echeverry, Jessica Echeverry and SOFESA.
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff
Joseph Gazal
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None Scheduled
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part

¿¿ 

¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
Joseph Gazal (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Charlie Echeverry (Charlie), Jessica Echeverry (Jessica), and
entity Defendant Sofesa (collectively, Defendants). The Complaint alleges the
following.
 
Plaintiff is an 80-year-old
parishioner at St. Gerard Majella Church (the Church) where Charlie is the
Deacon. (Compl.,¶¶8 and 10.) On December 19, 2021 Charlie told the parishioners
about a family in need; a mother and four children who fled an abusive husband
and were currently living in a Motel 6 in Los Angeles. (Id., ¶9.)
Charlie told the parishioners that the family had no home and needed money for
a house and a car. (Id., ¶12.) Plaintiff then donated $1,047,143.91 to
the Church to assist the alleged family in need and asked that any funds
leftover be returned to him. (Id., at ¶13.) On January 18, 2022
Defendants told Plaintiff that a home had been purchased for the family, but
Defendants did identify the cost of the home, instead asking Plaintiff to
complete a W-9. (Id., at ¶14.) Plaintiff’s subsequent requests for an
accounting were ignored until Plaintiff retained legal counsel, who requested
documentation of the donation only to receive a one-page escrow statement with
pertinent information redacted. (Id., at ¶15.) An accounting sheet
provided by Defendants was also produced revealing Plaintiff’s donation was used
for items never agreed upon, including the fact that the home and car were
purchased in the name of entity Defendant Sofesa, a non-profit owned by Charlie
and his wife Jessica. (Id.) Plaintiff then filed suit.             
 
B.   
Procedural
The Complaint filed on June 1, 2022, alleges the following nine causes of action:
 
1.    
Breach
of Contract and Breach of Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing
2.    
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
3.    
Common
Law Fraud & Deceit
4.    
Constructive
Fraud
5.    
Negligence
and Negligent Misrepresentation
6.    
Elder
Abuse[1]
7.    
Unlawful
Solicitation
8.    
Unfair
Business Practices
9.    
Accounting
 
The motion now before the Court is
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendants demur to all nine
causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer; Defendants filed a reply.     
 
 
C.   
Request for Judicial Notice
Concurrently filed with their
demurrer, Defendants also file a Request for Judicial Notice (RJN), requesting
the Court judicially notice the following:
 
1.    
the Court’s minute dated March 7, 2023, issued following
the hearing on Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion;
2.    
the Court’s minute dated March 13, 2023, ruling on
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion;
3.    
the Reporter’s Transcript of Proceedings, dated March 7,
2023, regarding the hearing on Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion;
4.    
Court of Appeal’s decision, dated March 29, 2024, affirming
this Court’s ruling on Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion; and
5.    
Respondent’s Brief filed by Plaintiff, dated September 26,
2023, in the appeal from this Court’s ruling on Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Pursuant to Evid. Code §§452(d)(1) and (d)(2), all items
are judicially noticed. 
¿ 
¿II. MEET AND CONFER 
“Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a); see also Code Civ. Proc. §435.5 (imposing similar requirements for
a motion to strike).) Defendants provide the Declaration of Paul M. Jonna which
states the parties conferred telephonically on July 29, 2024, and attempted to
continue conferring over email. Although the parties did not reach an
agreement, the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been met.    
¿¿ 
 
 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard ¿ 
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
 
B.   
Discussion  
 
a)     First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract & Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Within the first cause of action, Plaintiff combined two causes of
action within one caption, i.e., both a contract claim and an implied covenant
claim. To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must
be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been
held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere
contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated … [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id.
at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied covenant, the
defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.” (Id. at p.
1395, citations and italics omitted.)
 
            The Complaint’s first task is to
establish the existence of a contract. The Complaint alleges an oral contract
was entered into by the parties where Defendants would use Plaintiff’s donation
to purchase a car and house for the alleged family in need. (Compl., ¶22.)  In its demurrer, Defendants do not contest
the existence of the claimed contract; rather, Defendants argue the object of
the contract is unlawful, therefore rendering the Contract void.   In his  opposition, Plaintiff contends the object was
not unlawful, the object was to assist a family in need and Defendants breached
the contract by purchasing a house and car for Sofesa in Sofesa’s name rather
than in the name of the needy family. Although not explicitly stated, Plaintiff
seems to imply that the house and car never went to the family. (Opp Papers,
11:10-18.) Defendants contend in their Reply brief that the contract claim
fails for for lack of consideration. The Court agrees. 
Civ. Code §1549
defines a contract as “an agreement to do or not to do a certain thing.” A
contract must have an offer, acceptance, and consideration. “An offer is
the manifestation of willingness to enter into a bargain, so made as to justify
another person in understanding that his assent to that bargain is invited and
will conclude it.” (Rest.2d, § 24.) An acceptance is a manifestation of assent
to the terms of an offer. Consideration is a bargained for exchange of a
promise for a return promise or performance that benefits the promisor or
causes detriment to the promisee. (See generally, 1 Witkin, Summary 11th
Contracts § 3 (2024).)
Although the Complaint alleges an
oral contract, it is unclear which party made what offer. The Complaint makes
clear the intent of Plaintiff was to donate funds to assist a family in need,
and that Defendants would facilitate using those funds to provide the
assistance. However, the Complaint fails to detail what the offer was, and
there are no facts detailing the terms of the offer nor the acceptance.
Finally, Defendants argue there was no consideration flowing from one party to
the other. The Complaint fails to describe with any detail the exchange of a
promise or performance. With regard to the cause of action for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, with no contract there
can be no breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Therefore, the first element of the
cause of action for a breach of contract has not been met, and the demurrer to
the first cause of action for breach of contract is sustained, as is the
demurrer to the cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  The pleading is uncertain as to the offer, the
acceptance and the consideration for the claimed oral promise.  Because the Court believes these matters can
be corrected, Plaintiff is granted 20 leave to amend. 
b)     Second Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of
a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) “…examples of relationships that impose a fiduciary
obligation to act on behalf of and for the benefit of another are “a joint
venture, a partnership, or an agency.” (Cleveland v. Johnson, (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1339.) As applied to these facts, the Court notes that Business
and Professions Code §17510.8 provides:
 
“there
exists a fiduciary relationship between a charity or any person soliciting on
behalf of a charity, and the person from whom a charitable contribution is
being solicited. The acceptance of charitable contributions by a charity or any
person soliciting on behalf of a charity establishes a charitable trust and a
duty on the part of the charity and the person soliciting on behalf of the
charity to use those charitable contributions for the declared charitable
purposes for which they are sought.”
 
            The Complaint alleges the breach here was using
Plaintiff’s funds to purchase a house and car for Sofesa and in Sofesa’s name,
instead of for the family in need. Defendants’ demurrer argues that it is the
Attorney General’s duty to supervise and enforce violations by charitable
trusts. Upon opposition, Plaintiff counters arguing that because Plaintiff has
a reversionary interest in the trust property, Plaintiff has standing to sue,
relying on L.B. Research & Education Foundation v. UCLA Foundation
(2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 171 (L.B.). L.B. was a case
where a donor contributed $1 million to establish anendowed chair at UCLA’s
medical school. The plaintiff there sued UCLA arguing UCLA failed to comply
with the parteis’ alleged agreement as to how the funds were to be used. The
court there then analyzed whether the plaintiff intended to create a charitable
trust or a conditional gift. (L.B., supra, at 178.) A charitable
trust would mean the attorney general would have the power to enforce a
violation rather than plaintiff[2].
If it were a conditional gift, the plaintiff would have standing. 
 
            Here, the Complaint is clear in alleging that the intent
of the parties was that the donated funds be used for the family, and that any
unused funds be returned to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶13.)  Defendants’ Reply brief argues that the gift
lacked any specific terms or written agreement, therefore rendering it a
donative gift. The Court disagrees. The Complaint’s conditions suffice to show
what the gift was for, and what was to happen with the remaining funds,
rendering it a conditional gift, which gives Plaintiff standing. Therefore, the
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.       
 
c)    
Third Cause
of Action for Common Law Fraud & Deceit and Fourth Cause of Action for
Constructive Fraud
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
            Here, both
the third cause of action for fraud and fourth cause of action for constructive
fraud fail for lack of specificity. The Complaint alleges the first element of
misrepresentation was using Plaintiff’s funds for a family in need, when in
reality they were used to purchase a home and car for Sofesa. However, there is
little detail as to the second element of scienter, the third element of intent
to induce reliance, nor the fourth element of justifiable reliance.
 
            As to the
second element of scienter, the Complaint alleges there were further
conversations that followed the initial Homily where the parties discussed the
funds, and Plaintiff donated varying amounts on December 24, 27, 28, and 29 of
2021. However, who said what to whom is not alleged as required by Tarmann.
Without these details, the allegations do not meet the heightened pleading
requirement. Accordingly, the demurrer to both the third and fourth causes of
action is sustained, but Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.  
 
d)    
Fifth Cause
of Action for Negligence and Negligent Misrepresentation
Again, the Complaint couples two separate causes of action
into one. In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include the
affirmative “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without
reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce
another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and
justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
In alleging
both a breach of fiduciary duty in the second cause of action and negligence in
the fifth cause of action, the Complaint alleges that a legal duty was owed,
and that Defendants breached that legal duty.  Plaintiff alleges the fiduciary duty that was
owed was also a legal duty owed to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the funds
donated were not used in accordance with the conditions of the gift. This was
proximately caused by Defendants’ alleged misuse of funds on items never
discussed.  (Compl., ¶55.) The damages
are the funds that were never returned to Plaintiff. Therefore, negligence has
been successfully plead. 
However,
the cause of action for negligent misrepresentation falls to demurrer for the
same deficiencies discussed with regard to the fraud cause of action above. Accordingly,
the demurrer is overruled as to the negligence cause of action but is sustained
as to the negligent misrepresentation cause of action.
e)    
Sixth Cause
of Action for Elder Abuse
 
The
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15600 et seq.) provides for steep penalties against those who abuse an elder or
a dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse, neglect,
isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of necessary goods or services, and
financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).) Plaintiff specifically contends financial abuse (1)
the plaintiff was an
"elder"
within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act (Welfare & Institutions Code
section15600 et
seq.), i.e., 65
years of age or older; (2) the defendant took or retained the plaintiffs
property with
the intent to
defraud the plaintiff, for a wrongful use, or by undue influence; (3) the
plaintiff was
harmed; and (4)
the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing in the plaintiffs
harm.
Wel. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.30.
 
            Plaintiff alleges he was
80-years-old, and therefore an elder. (Compl., ¶3.) Plaintiff alleges the funds
donated were donated because he was under the impression they would be used to
help a family in need. Plaintiff was harmed because at least some of the funds
were not used for their stated purpose, and Defendant’s alleged misuse was a
substantial factor in the harm of the funds being lost from Plaintiff and
gained by Sofesa. Defendants argue the Complaint does not specify what was
false. The Court disagrees, the Complaint is clear that Plaintiff donated under
the impression of helping a family not Sofesa. Therefore, the demurrer to the
cause of action for financial elder abuse is overruled. 
 
f)     
Seventh
Cause of Action for Unlawful Solicitation
 
The seventh cause of action is grounded in California Code
of Regulations, Title 11 §999.9.9.4 (CCR §999.9.4) which mandates that a
charitable organization like Sofesa be registered and in good standing with the
Registry of Charitable Trusts in order to solicit for charitable purposes in
California. Plaintiff alleges the registration for Sofesa was delinquent at the
time the solicitation to Plaintiff was made. Plaintiff urges the Court to find
an implied private right of action to CCR §999.9.4 and relies on Animal
Legal Defense Fund v. Mendes (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 136 (Mendes).                              
 
This reliance is misplaced. Mendes was a case that
discussed whether the Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) could enforce a
violation of Pen. Code §597(t), which provides that it is a misdemeanor to
confine an animal without an “adequate exercise area”. (Mendes, supra,
at 140.) The Mendes Court provided careful analysis of whether there was
either an explicit or implied private right of action for ALDF to enforce Pen.
Code §597(t) and concluded there was not. (Id., at 141- 145.)
This Court concludes the same here as to CCR §999.9.4. “Courts
will allow a private right of action only where a statute allows one. The
statute must contain clear, understandable, unmistakable terms, which strongly
and directly’ indicate a private right of action is allowed.” (Lagrisola v.
North American Financial Corp. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1196.
Internal citations and quotation marks omitted.) Not only is there absolutely
no indication of permitting a private right of action in CCR §999.9.4, the “Initial Statement of Reasons” for Title
11 aims to alleviate any burden to affected persons by placing responsibility
of enforcement of Title 11 solely with the California Department of Justice.
(See Initial Statement of Reasons for Title 11, Chaps. 4 & 15, pg. 39.) 
In the more
developed federal jurisprudence concerning the factors for implying a private
right of action from a statute, the U.S. Supreme Court has noted these factors
as being pertinent:  “First, is the
plaintiff ‘one of the class for whose especial benefit the statute was enacted’[citation
omitted] . . . Second, is there any indication of legislative intent, explicit
or implicit, either to create such a remedy or to deny one? [citation omitted,
and] Third, is it consistent with the underlying purposes of the legislative
scheme to imply such a remedy for the plaintiff?”  (Cort v. Ash (1975) 422 U.S. 66, 78.)  Applying this federal standard, the Court
would also find there to be no basis for implied a private right of action under
a regulatory statute to grant a new civil action for damages against the
allegedly tardy registrant.  
Accordingly, as the Legislature has not expressed its
intent to create an express or implied private right of action and no such
intent can reasonably be suggested for the type of claim asserted here in favor
of the Plaintiff, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained,
without leave to amend. 
g)    
Eighth Cause
of Action for Unfair Business Practices
 
To set forth a claim for a violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish
Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain
specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)
 
As
noted, Plaintiff donated under the impression of helping a family in need, not
assisting Sofesa – the non-profit owned by Charlie and Jessica Echeverry – in
purchasing a car and a home. The Complaint alleges clearly that the funds
donated were to be used for one purpose, and instead, they were used for
another.  Prevailing
plaintiffs in a UCL cause of action are generally limited to injunctive relief
and restitution. (B&P Code § 17203; see ABC
Internat. Traders, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th
1247, 1268.) Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble damages, or
attorney fees. (Bank of the West v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266.)   The eighth cause of action appears to allege
entitlement to monetary damages in the amount of $852,000 as well as
consequential damages.   Accordingly, the demurrer as to the eighth
cause of action is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend if Plaintiff elects
to pursue one of the statutory remedies under the UCL as distinct from a claim
for monetary damages.  
 
h)    
Ninth Cause
of Action for Accounting
 
“A
cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists
between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some
balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An
action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179, citations and paragraph break omitted.) 
 
The
cause of action of accounting here is grounded in the allegations that
Defendants refused to inform Plaintiff of how much the purchased home cost
(Comp., ¶14), nor why funds were spent on items never discussed. (Compl., ¶55.)
Although $195,000 was allegedly returned to Plaintiff, Plaintiff contends it is
still unclear how the rest of the funds were used and what else may still be
owed to him. Plaintiff alleges the damages could exceed the $852,000.00 alleged
in the Complaint, therefore an accounting is necessary. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled. 
 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
            Accordingly,
the demurrer filed by Defendants Charlie Echeverry aka Carlos Echeverry, Jessica Echeverry and
Sofesa is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part.  Moving defendant to give notice of the
ruling.
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 


