  Case Number:  21STCV33265    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 October 9, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV33265                                                 CASE NAME:                        Plaintiff  Doe v. Innovative Fertility Center and Mark J. Rispler, M.D.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendants  Innovative Fertility Center and Mark J. Rispler  RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff  Doe   TRIAL DATE:                        March 24, 2025   MOTION:                              Motion  for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Undergo a Defense Mental Health Examination  Tentative Rulings:                  GRANT,  although the Court seeks oral argument on certain points discussed  below       I. BACKGROUND   A.    Factual and Procedural  Background               On  September 9, 2021 Plaintiff Doe (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint, followed by a  First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November 15, 2021 alleging the following four causes  of action: (1) battery, (2) sexual battery, (3) medical negligence, (4)  intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Plaintiff alleged these  causes of action against Defendants Innovative Fertility Center (Innovative)  and Mark J. Rispler, M.D. (Dr. Rispler, collectively Defendants).               The  FAC stems from an October 1, 2019 visit to Dr. Rispler’s office for a  transvaginal ultrasound as Plaintiff made the decision to pursue pregnancy.  (FAC, ¶¶7 & 8.) Plaintiff alleges that during the transvaginal ultrasound  Rispler used the transducer to rub Plaintiff’s clitoris approximately five  times in a manner intended to create arousal before proceeding to insert the  transducer in Plaintiff’s vagina. (FAC, ¶¶ 9& 10.) Dr. Rispler then is  alleged to have repeatedly inserted the transducer and pulled it out. (Id.)  Plaintiff was in shock and was unable to say anything in the moment. (Id.)  After the alleged assault Plaintiff filed suit.               The  motion now before the Court is Defendants’ Motion for an Order Compelling  Plaintiff to undergo an Independent Medical Exam (the Motion). Plaintiff  opposes the Motion; Defendants filed a reply.                              III. ANALYSIS  A.     Legal  Standard                   The governing rule is CCP §  2032.020 which provides: “(a) Any party may obtain discovery, subject to the  restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by  means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an  agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal  control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition  (including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in  the action.”    When the defendant seeks to obtain discovery  by a mental examination, the defendant must obtain leave of court. (Id. §  2032.310, subd. (a).) The motion for a mental examination “shall specify the  time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well  as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will  perform the examination.” Id. (§ 2032.310, subd. (b).)  “To protect the plaintiff's privacy interests  from unnecessary intrusion, the mental examination may be ordered only upon a  showing of good cause.”  (Carpenter v.  Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 259.)  When the defense IME seeks to obtain  discovery in the course of the IME by requiring the Plaintiff to submit to  tests or diagnostic procedures, the court order on a motion to compel a mental  status IME is required to list the tests by name.  (Id. at p. 260.)                 A mental status examination is proper only where the  existence and extent of a plaintiff’s mental injuries is in dispute.  A personal injury plaintiff who alleges  emotional distress as an element of damages does not necessarily place her or  his mental state in controversy for purposes of amotion to compel a mental  status IME; rather, it only those plaintiffs who allege continuing or ongoing  mental distress who potentially subject themselves to a defense mental status  IME. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  In Vinson, “by asserting a causal link  between her mental distress and defendants' conduct, plaintiff implicitly  claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the  question of alternative sources for the distress. We thus conclude that her  mental state is in controversy.”   (Id.)  Thus, “an allegation of past  emotional distress is insufficient to place a plaintiff's mental condition in  controversy.”  (Doyle v. Superior  Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1887.)       B.      Discussion                Upon moving for a motion to compel Plaintiff to undergo an  independent medical exam (IME), Defendants argue that Plaintiff has placed her  mental and emotional health at issue. In her opposition, Plaintiff concedes  this but argues the scope of the proposed IME is overly broad and intrusive.  The Court shares some of the Plaintiff’s concerns and thus will entertain oral  argument on the scope of the IME as well as the process for administering the standardized  testing sought by the defense.     Analysis             “Although the scope of civil discovery is  broad, it is not limitless.” (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court,  (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.) A court must balance the need for discovery  with the right of privacy. Defendants contend in their moving papers that  Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy in her mental and emotional injuries  by placing them in controversy in this action. This is only true to a certain  extent.    In making such a contention, Defendants rely  heavily on Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833 (Vinson).  Vinson was a case heard by the Supreme Court of California where a  worker brought suit against her employer alleging sexual harassment and IIED.  The defendants there moved for an IME. The worker opposed it, requesting the  trial court to limit the exam.  However,  the trial court refused and granted the motion without imposing any limitations  including allowing defendants to probe into plaintiff’s sexual practices. The  Supreme Court reversed, holding that just because plaintiff initiated the suit  did not mean she waived her rights to privacy completely. (Vinson, supra,  at 841-842.) The plaintiff in that case retained certain privacy rights as to  her personal life. The Court finds the same here.   Plaintiff in the case at bar has placed her  mental and emotional health at issue, and Defendants have a right to inquire in  order to prepare a defense. The Court references a recent California Supreme  Court decision in a somewhat different sexual assault context to provide  perspective:   “multiple interests are implicated in this context. A defendant has a  right to a fair adjudication and to counter a plaintiff's evidence. And a  complainant has a right to privacy and freedom from harassment. [Evidence Code]  Sections 782 and 783 articulate specific procedures designed to balance and  protect the potentially conflicting rights of both the complainant and the  defendant. These procedures require a broader section 352 inquiry compared with  the garden-variety weighing contemplated under that statute in isolation. In  such cases the trial court must not simply assess the potential for prejudice  to the party against whom the evidence is offered, but also undertake a more  probing inquiry by considering whether the discovery or adjudication process is  being used to harass, intimidate, or unduly invade the privacy of the  complainant. In doing so, a trial court must bear in mind its obligation to act  as a gatekeeper, and to be guided by the Legislature's special statements  concerning the purpose of the shield provisions: to protect a victim's right of  privacy and prevent unnecessary intrusion into complainants’ personal sexual  lives both in civil discovery and in civil judicial proceedings.”   (Doe v. Superior Court  (2023) 15 Cal.5th 40, 70.)  What the Doe  Court was addressing was a trial motion in limine to exclude evidence of a more  recent molestation than the abuse allegedly committed by plaintiff’s fourth-grade  teacher years earlier.  But the  principles are ones the Court bears in mind in addressing the scope of the mental  status IME here where the Court must fulfill its gatekeep role to prevent  unnecessary intrusion into the Plaintiff’s sexual life in anticipation of  questioning by the defense IME psychologist.    1.       The Psychological  Tests Listed by Dr. Brovko Appear Reasonable to the Court     Plaintiff’s opposition to the battery of  tests that the defense proposes to administer does not persuade the Court to  limit or prohibit them. The Declaration of Dr. Julie M. Brovko (Brovko Decl.)  illuminates why tests such as the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI),  the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI), and the Detailed Assessment of  Posttraumatic Stress (DAPS) are necessary. Plaintiff has attested to symptoms  such as lack of sleep, irritability, difficulty concentrating, depression, crying,  stressful memories of the assault, flashback of the assault, dreams of the  assault, hypervigilance. (Brovko Decl., Exh. O. Also see Exh. P, pg. 70, lines  16-19.) Defendants may, through a qualified expert such as Dr. Brovko, conduct  standard mental health tests to address the overall cognitive functioning,  impairment, psychological symptoms, and other aspects of Plaintiff’s mental  health status in a standardized, non-subjective manner.  The Court is familiar with two of these three  tests from prior civil litigation matters both as a lawyer and as a judge.  While the Opposition highlights potential  uses or claimed misuses of test results from these standardized tests, and objects  to the tests for various reasons, the moving papers sufficiently carry  Defendant’s burden of demonstrating that the reasonable in nature, number, and  duration.   Plaintiff has not submitted a declaration from  Plaintiff’s expert witness or a treating mental health care professional to  challenge the propriety of any of these tests in this case.  The Court will thus grant that aspect of the  proposed order that lists the MMPI, PAI, and DAPS as the only tests to which  Plaintiff must submit.  Dr. Brovko’s  declaration estimates a total of 2 hours and 20 minutes as the estimated  duration for completion of all three tests, without assuming any break between  test administrations.  That total  duration appears to the Court to be reasonable.    However, Dr.  Brovko also states in Paragraph 7 of her declaration that “if mistakes were  made during testing or additional tests are needed, they can be accounted for  and administered on day two.”  The Court  finds this aspect of the Defendant’s motion problematic.  There shall be no additional tests besides  the MMPI, PAI, and DAPS.  The Court of  Appeal has held that the failure to list the names of all tests in an IME order  failed to comply with Section 2032.320, reversing a trial court order that  lacked a complete and comprehensive list of the test names.  (Carpenter, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at  p. 269.)  2.       The Psychological Interview Aspect of the IME  Must Be Modified.   The next aspect of the motion concerns the  mental status examination by Dr. Brovko, which the Court has seen referred to  in similar contexts as the psychological interview portion of the IME.  Plaintiff raises an objection to the proposed  duration of the defense IME, being proposed over a two-day period with six to  eight hours to complete the interview portion including rest breaks.  The Court shares Plaintiff’s concern.  While the Court appreciates Dr. Bravko’s stated  desire to have plaintiff fresh and non-fatigued, an entire day for the  psychological interview portion of the IME seems excessive and unreasonable to  the Court.  As to whether the IME would  take place over two days with testing on one day and the interview on a second  day, or the testing int eh morning and interview int eh afternoon, the Court  instead would seek oral argument from Plaintiff as to whether a single day with  all aspects of the IME conducted, or two half-days, would be preferable.  The Court tentatively intends to limit the  duration of the psychological interview to no more than approximately four  total hours, including breaks of at least 10 minutes each hour for a total  interview time of up to three hours and twenty minutes.  The Court states “approximately” because if  Plaintiff needs a 15- or 20-minute break, she should be afforded that  additional break time but without limiting the interview time.     Both Dr. Brovko and Plaintiff have the  statutory right to audio record the mental examination.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.530; Randy's  Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818,  833.)  The IME order shall so provide.   As previously held by the Third District, the  main purposes of audio recording an IME interview “are to ensure that the  examiner does not overstep the bounds set by the court for the mental  examination, that the context of the responses can be judged for purposes of  trial, that the examinee's interests are protected (especially since the  examinee's counsel ordinarily will not be present), and that any evidence of  abuse can be presented to the court.”  (Golfland  Entertainment Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 739,  750.)  Thus, audio recording should help  to address some of the concern raised in the opposition.  For example, the Opposition rhetorically asks  a series of questions that do not appear to have any factual basis here, i.e.,  whether Plaintiff would be required to watch videos of mutilated children or be  asked about the effects of electroconvulsive shock therapy.  There is no indication in Dr. Brovko’s  declaration nor in the moving or reply papers that the defense is seeking any  such things or would have any legitimate basis for attempting to do any such  thing.  Particularly with the Court  limiting the duration of the psychological interview, Dr. Brovko will be  encouraged to conduct the interview in an efficient manner without straying  afield from the stated purposes of the IME, i.e., to assist her in diagnosing  plaintiff’s psychological condition and to reach conclusions concerning  causation, prognosis and recommended treatment.    Dr. Brovko indicates her intent to inquire as  to plaintiff’s experience with traumatic events and how those events affected Plaintiff.  Such questioning appears to the Court to be  appropriate as bearing on any pre-existing psychological conditions, and post-  Dr. Rispler traumatic episodes, Plaintiff’s resilience, and related issues.   In conclusion, the Court’s tentative ruling  is to GRANT the motion to compel an IME, to specifically authorize the 3 listed  tests, and to limit the duration of the psychological interview to  approximately four total hours including breaks as noted above.  Moving party to submit a proposed order  accordingly.  