  Case Number:  21STCV22706    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  47 Nada
Shaath v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist., Case No. 21STCV22706
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiff’s MIL # 1:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding any drug use or suspected drug use by Plaintiff’s
children or any drug treatment or psychiatric treatment of Plaintiff’s
children.
TENTATIVE RULING:    DENIED.
Plaintiff alleges in this case that Lydia Acosta Stephens
harassed and discriminated against Plaintiff in several ways, including that
she told Plaintiff to seek psychological help and get therapy.  The Court agrees with Defendant that evidence
of the context in which this statement was made, including Plaintiff’s
disclosures about the children’s drug use and/or mental health problems is
centrally relevant to the question of whether Stephens’ comment should be
considered unwarranted criticism or harassment or personal support and
advice.  Further, it may be that evidence
of the struggles of Plaintiff’s children will also be relevant to the extent to
which her emotional distress arose from mistreatment at work or from other
unrelated stressors.  While it is not
clear from the quoted testimony in Defendant’s opposition what the therapist
meant when he said that Plaintiff was impacted by “her situation or
relationship with her children,” to the extent that this refers to Plaintiff’s
reactions to her children’s drug and/or mental health issues, such evidence may
be admissible to undermine or restrict Plaintiff’s evidence that allege
discrimination and harassment at work was “a substantial factor in causing
[Plaintiff’s] harm.”  (E.g., CACI
2521A.)  The Court agrees, however, that
the children’s names and other identifying information should be shielded from
the jury and that no evidence or argument should be admitted suggesting  that Plaintiff is an unfit mother.  The Court will carefully consider proposals
to limit the scope of the evidence to be offered to achieve these protective
goals.
Plaintiff’s Amended MIL # 2:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding interview notes of Eos investigators Victor Beauchamp and
Melissa Espinoza and undated “Investigation Worksheet” [author unidentified].
TENTATIVE RULING:    GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  
To defend against Plaintiff’s failure to prevent claim, Defendant
is entitled to submit evidence that it promptly conducted an internal
investigation, to identify the witnesses interviewed and documents reviewed,
and to state its conclusions and any remedy implemented.  That said, Defendant is not entitled to offer
hearsay statements from witnesses, investigation notes, or an anonymous
“Investigation Worksheet.”  These are not
business records, but rather documentation of an internal investigation
prepared in anticipation of possible litigation, and thus may not be submitted
for the truth of the matters asserted. 
Further, to the extent the records reflect statements by third parties
to Defendant’s EOS investigators, they are hearsay statements by those
persons.  If there is a specific
exception to the hearsay rule for some of the statements in the records, the
Court will consider that issue at trial. 

Plaintiff’s MIL # 3:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding the subject of any complaint, insinuation, or speculation
that there was turmoil in the Department before Arrechiga’s arrival.  
TENTATIVE RULING:   GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  
The Court is unclear exactly what evidence is to be
excluded.  It does not appear that
evidence about staff conflicts and dysfunction in existence under Dr. Kim’s
leadership is necessarily probative of Plaintiff’s alleged deficiencies as a
candidate for promotion or of Arrechiga’s superior credentials for that the
Coordinator position.  On the other hand,
evidence of Plaintiff’s own conduct may be admissible particularly if it was
known to Defendants’ supervisors who made decisions about Plaintiff’s
applications for promotions.  Finally, Arrechiga’s
“hunch” that there was “turmoil” in the department and other similar
speculation is not admissible as it is not grounded on personal knowledge.  
Plaintiff’s MIL # 4:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding Stephens allegedly suggesting that or asking Plaintiff to
apply for Coordinator position vacated by Dr. Kim.  
TENTATIVE RULING:    DENIED.
Plaintiff seeks to prove that Executive Director Lydia
Acosta Stephens harassed and discriminated against her.  Evidence that Stephens suggested that
Plaintiff apply for Dr. Kim’s position is relevant, not only to Stephens’ state
of mind or intent in the context of Plaintiff’s efforts to prove her
discriminatory bias, but also as evidence of Plaintiff’s qualifications for the
position. 
Plaintiff’s MIL # 6:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding any hearsay evidence that Stephens Say any words to the
effect that or gave the impression that Plaintiff has a special place in
Stephens’ heart.  
TENTATIVE RULING:    DENIED.
Plaintiff seeks to prove that Executive Director Lydia
Acosta Stephens harassed and discriminated against her.  Evidence that Stephens made positive
statements about Plaintiff, including that Plaintiff holds a special place in
Stephens’ heart, are probative of Stephens’ state of mind or intent in the
context of Plaintiff’s efforts to prove her discriminatory bias.
Plaintiff’s MIL # 7:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding the estimated monetary value of Plaintiff’s
residence.  
TENTATIVE RULING:    GRANTED.
Non-expert opinion about the monetary value of Plaintiff’s
home by third parties constitutes inadmissible lay opinion testimony.  Moreover, it is irrelevant to the question of
Plaintiff’s emotional distress, since the inability to pay one’s mortgage and
risk of losing one’s home is stressful and real regardless of the value of the
home.  To the extent it has any relevance
at all, any evidence of the monetary value of Plaintiff’s home is of minimal
relevance which is plainly outweighed by the prejudicial impact of such
evidence in the context of this case.  Further,
such evidence would require unnecessary inquiry into wholly collateral matters
to explain Plaintiff’s ownership of the home. 
Thus, the evidence must be excluded under Evidence Code §§ 350 and 352.
Defendant’s MIL # 1:  seeking to exclude any speculative testimony
regarding Dr. Jina Kim’s departure from the MMED.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN PART.
To the extent that the Court understands the scope of
evidence targeted for exclusion, the Court grants the motion as it relates to speculative
comments  not grounded on personal
knowledge.  On the other hand, Dr. Kim
may testify about Stephens’ alleged requests to “write up” Plaintiff, Dr. Kim’s
refusal to do so, and any conduct directed at Dr. Kim that induced her to leave
her position.  This evidence is probative
of Stephens’ discriminatory and retaliatory intent. 
Defendant’s MIL # 3:  seeking to exclude any speculative testimony
regarding the reasons Plaintiff was not selected for employment as an Assistant
Principal.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN PART.
Plaintiff may not testify about hearsay statements she heard
from others that may bear on the reasons she was not selected for various
Assistant Principal positions.  She may
testify that she applied, was qualified, and was rejected for those positions
without being provided with a reason. 
She may also testify to her subjective belief that her rejection was
discriminatory and retaliatory, but she must also prove these claims through
admissible evidence.
Defendant’s MIL # 4:  seeking to exclude Plaintiff’s personal
journals.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED, without prejudice to objections to specific entries offered at
trial.
Entries in Plaintiff’s journals may be used at trial to
refresh her recollection, as evidence of her then existing state of mind, or as
a prior consistent statement in response to efforts to impeach Plaintiff’s
testimony.  The Court will not scour the
records now to rule on the possible admissibility of such entries but rather
will consider objections as they are raised at trial.
 
 