  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH AND/OR MODIFY SUBPOENAS DUCES
   TECUM AND MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   8, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Martina A. Silas
(“Plaintiff”) moves to quash 8 subpoenas issued by defendants Ace Hardware
Corporation and The Grommet (“Defendants”) for her medical records. Plaintiff
contends that these subpoenas must be quashed because they seek the same
records that previously-quashed subpoenas sought. Plaintiff argues that
Defendants’ failure to oppose her motion to quash these previous subpoenas and
their failure to file a motion for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b) prevents them from issuing the subpoenas at issue. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
If
a subpoena requires the production of documents, the court may quash the
subpoena entirely or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) In
ruling on a motion to quash, “the court may in its discretion
award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.2, subd. (a).) Current
discovery standards hold that, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged,[1] that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence
or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 1011, 1039.) “To meet this [test], a party seeking to compel [the]
production of records . . . must articulate specific facts justifying the
discovery sought; it may not rely on mere generalities.” (Ibid.; see Johnson
v. Superior Court (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 829, 837 [finding that a subpoena
was “insufficient” to compel production because it was “based wholly on the
[party’s] alleged information and belief without any statement of supporting
facts”].) 
When a plaintiff puts her health and
physical condition at issue, the privacy and privileges that normally attach to
such sensitive information are “substantially lowered by the very nature of the
action.”  (Heller v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43.) The
Court must “balance the public need against the weight of the privacy right”
and only serious invasions of privacy
will bar discovery. (Crab Addison, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.) There is not an
egregious invasion of privacy every time there is a request for private
information and courts must “place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion.”
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.) However, “although in seeking recovery for
physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have unquestionably waived their
physician-patient . . . privileges as to all information concerning the medical
conditions which they have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver
extends only to information relating to the medical conditions in question, and
does not automatically open all of a plaintiff’s past medical history to
scrutiny.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849.) The burden is
on the party seeking the constitutionally protected information to establish
direct relevance. (Davis v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Subpoenas
to East Valley ENT, Dr. Warren Line, Auditory Processing Centers, The Towers
Audiology Center, and AMC Pharmacy
Plaintiff argues that this group of
subpoenas should be quashed because subpoenas directed to these medical
providers were previously quashed on August 16, 2022. Earlier, Plaintiff had
moved to quash subpoenas served on the custodians of record for East Valley
ENT, House Ear Institute, Dr. Sharzad Cohen, Auditory Processing Centers, The
Towers Audiology Center, and AMC Pharmacy (“First Set of Subpoenas”), which
sought all medical and billing records related to her treatment and care from
January 1, 2007, to the present date, without limitation by body part.
Defendants did not oppose the motion, file a motion for reconsideration, or
seek relief pursuant to CCP 473(b). The Honorable Michael E. Whitaker granted
Plaintiff’s motion to quash the First Set of Subpoenas because: (1) Plaintiff
carried her threshold burden of establishing a legally protected privacy
interest and a serious threatened intrusion, and (b) Defendants did not oppose
the motion and the Court could not determine whether the First Set of Subpoenas
was narrowly tailored to the specific issues identified by Plaintiff in her
discovery responses. 
Here, the subpoenas at issue are not
identical to the First Set of Subpoenas because they seek records relating to
any “examination, evaluation, treatment, testing, diagnosis, therapy,
counseling, prescription, recommendation, or referral” provided to Plaintiff
“involving injury to the right ear and/or hearing or tinnitus in either or both
of the ears from January 1, 2007 to the present.” Furthermore, Judge Whitaker
made no mention of Plaintiff’s alternative request to modify the First Set of
Subpoenas, likely because Defendants, by failing to oppose the motion to quash,
failed to establish good cause for those subpoenas in the first place. Therefore,
Defendants are not seeking reconsideration of or relief from a prior order
which addressed a different set of subpoenas and Plaintiff’s citations to
section 1008 and case law interpreting section 473 are irrelevant. For
instance, Plaintiff cites to Arambula v. Union Carbide Corporation (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 333 and Kerns v. CSE Ins. Group (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
368, but these cases involve summary judgment motions, not discovery motions. 
Defendants demonstrate good cause for
the records sought by including Plaintiff’s discovery responses which
identified the medical providers she treated with. (Def.’s Opp., Martinez
Decl., Ex. B.) In fact, the only substantive issue Plaintiff has with
Defendants’ instant subpoenas is the failure to include instructions to the
custodians of record to redact Plaintiff’s date of birth and Social Security
number from any writings produced. (Motion, p. 13.) However, the failure to
include this instruction is not a reason to quash them. Defendants can instruct
the custodians of records to redact this information before production. 
B.  
Subpoenas
to PIH Health Physicians 
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas to
PIH Health Physicians (“PIH”) should be quashed because she has never sought
treatment there. However, Defendants represent that those subpoenas have been
cancelled and were not served on PIH, therefore the motion is MOOT with respect
to those subpoenas. (Martinez Decl., ¶ 33.) 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to quash is DENIED
in its entirety. Plaintiff’s motion to modify the subpoenas is GRANTED with
respect to the subpoenas issued to East Valley ENT, Dr. Warren Line, Auditory
Processing Centers, The Towers Audiology Center, and AMC Pharmacy to add
instructions to the custodians of records to redact Plaintiff’s date of birth
and Social Security number from any writings produced. The Court finds that
each side had good cause to make and oppose the motion, and thus DENIES both
parties’ requests for sanctions. 
Dated
this 8th
 day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 