 Case Number:  24VECV01030    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV01030 FIDELITY
NATIONAL TITLE INS... vs POOPAK SANATI
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Fidelity National Title Insurance
Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff Fidelity National Title
Insurance Company’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any
hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Fidelity National Title
Insurance Company (Plaintiff) moved for summary judgment (MSJ against Defendant
Poopak Sanati (Defendant).  Plaintiff’s
complaint alleged two causes of action (COA) for breach of implied warranty of
title/covenant against encumbrances (Civ. Code, sec. 1113) and restitution
based on unjust enrichment.  Plaintiff is
self-represented.
Defendant’s Opposition was due
November 21, 2024 and none was filed.    
Discussion 
Plaintiff asserted that there is
no triable issue of material fact as to the two COAs alleged in the
Complaint.  Plaintiff provided that it
issued a title insurance policy (Policy) on June 26, 2020 to non-party Mattia
Pascolini and Jessica Pascolini (collectively, Insureds) for the conveyance of
real property from Defendant to the Insureds. 
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts (PSSF) 3-4.)  In connection to the sale to the Insureds, a
portion of the sale proceeds were required to pay off a July 11, 2003 Deed of
Trust (Prior DOT) held by Washington Mutual Bank and executed by
Defendant.  However, unbeknownst to
Plaintiff and the Insureds, Defendant retained the portion of the sale proceeds
that should have gone to pay off the Prior DOT. 
(PSSF 2, 5-6.)  Plaintiff’s
Insureds were served with a Notice of Default (NOD) related to the Prior DOT
and Plaintiff paid off the Prior DOT as a result of Insureds filing a claim
with Plaintiff. (PSSF 7-11.)  Despite
multiple demands upon Defendant for reimbursement, Defendant failed to
pay.  (PSSF 12.)  These facts present evidence to show that
there is no triable issue of fact as to the two COAs.  The burden shifted to Defendant to show that
a triable issue of fact exists.  Without
an opposition, Defendant failed to meet his burden.  The MSJ is persuasive.
The MSJ is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.