  Case Number:  21STCV01740    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  74 Mamdouh Habib, et al.
v. A.L. Wilson Chemical Company, et al.
 
Defendant A.L. Wilson
Chemical Company’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
The court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises from a dispute over Decedent Mamdouh Habib’s exposure to allegedly
carcinogenic chemicals.
             On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Loris Attia
(individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent), Sara Habib, Jennifer
Habib, and Stephanie Habib (Plaintiffs) filed a second amended complaint (SAC)
against Defendant A.L. Wilson Chemical Company (Defendant) and others.
            The
SAC alleges the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) strict
liability – failure to warn, (3) strict liability – design defect, (4)
fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of implied warranties, and (6) loss of
consortium. 
            On
December 21, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for summary adjudication.
Defendant seeks an order adjudicating Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for
fraudulent concealment and request for punitive damages. 
EVIDENCE
            The
court preserves the parties’ evidentiary objections.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “¿[A] motion for summary judgment
shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)¿¿.) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (¿¿Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850¿¿.) If the moving party
carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (¿¿Ibid.¿¿) Courts “¿liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.¿” (¿¿Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389¿¿.) 
DISCUSSION
Fourth
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Concealment
            To prevail on this cause of action,
a plaintiff must prove, in part, that the defendant intentionally concealed or
suppressed a material fact with intent to defraud the plaintiff. (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.) Defendant argues the court should grant summary adjudication
of this cause of action because Plaintiffs do not have, and cannot reasonably
obtain, evidence that Defendant knowingly concealed from Decedent that one of Defendant’s
products poses a risk of cancer. In support, Defendant offers Plaintiffs’ discovery
responses as evidence. (See Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573, 580.) According to Defendant, the responses are factually
devoid. 
            For example, Special Interrogatory
No. 17 to Plaintiffs Jennifer and Stephanie Habib and Special Interrogatory No.
90 to Plaintiff Loris Attia ask Plaintiffs to state all facts which support
their claim for fraudulent concealment. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4; Ex. B; Ex. C.)
Plaintiffs state that Defendant knew its products could cause kidney cancer
because such information was generally known in chemical industries for
decades. Even so, Defendant did not share this information with consumers
through written warnings and material safety data sheets. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 11,
12; Ex. J, pp. 19, 34-37; Ex. K., pp. 31, 37-39.) The court finds Plaintiffs’
contention that Defendant knew about the cancer risk speculative, though. That
is, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses do not cite any specific scientific study
of which Defendant should have been aware. 
            Moreover, Special Interrogatory No.
19 to Plaintiffs Jennifer and Stephanie Habib and Special Interrogatory No. 92
to Loris Attia ask Plaintiffs to identify documents that support their claim
for fraudulent concealment. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 3,4; Ex. B; Ex. C.) Plaintiffs
respond by citing documents produced in prior litigation, in addition to
scientific studies and tests conducted on Defendant’s products. (Sayre Decl.,
¶¶ 11, 12; Ex. J, pp.40-41; Ex. K, pp. 42-43.) But Plaintiffs do not specify
which documents, studies, or tests would support their claim. Importantly,
Plaintiffs do not identify tests or studies that concluded Defendant’s product is
carcinogenic.
            To
continue, Request for Production No. 35 to Plaintiffs Jennifer and Stephanie
Habib and Request for Production No. 84 to Plaintiff Loris Attia ask Plaintiffs
to produce all documents that support their claim for fraudulent concealment.
(Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 5,6; Ex. D; Ex. E.) In response, Plaintiffs cite a host of
documents they produced, including material safety data sheets. (Sayre Decl.,
¶¶ 13, 14; Ex. L, pp. 45-46; Ex. M, pp. 50-51.) From 1999 to 2014, the material
safety data sheets did not address the cancer risk of Defendant’s product Targo
Dry. (Brust Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) Moreover, this timeframe covers the period when
Decedent was allegedly exposed to the product. (SAC, ¶ 22.) Considered in
isolation, though, the material safety data sheets only indicate that Defendant
failed to warn Plaintiff from 1999 to 2014. The sheets do not inform the court
whether Defendant knew of the cancer risk and suppressed the information. Thus,
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses do not demonstrate Defendant’s intent to
conceal a material fact from Decedent. Defendant has satisfied its prima facie
burden, meaning the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to create a triable issue of
material fact.
            Plaintiffs
in turn argue that given the state of research during the alleged concealment,
Defendant was aware of the cancer risk. As a result, Defendant intentionally
concealed the information from Decedent. In support, Plaintiffs offer the
declaration of a physician, who relies on studies published before Decedent’s
exposure. According to the physician, a chemical in Defendant’s product,
trichloroethylene (TCE), causes kidney damage in rodents. (Brautbar Decl., ¶¶
133, 135-139.) But in the paragraphs of the declaration to which Plaintiffs
direct the court, the expert does not opine that TCE causes cancer in rodents
or humans. (Brautbar Decl., ¶¶ 133, 135-139.) The declaration therefore does
not establish that Defendant was or should have been aware of the cancer risk
of its product.
            Consequently,
Plaintiffs have not created a triable issue of material fact whether Defendant
knew about and intentionally concealed a material fact from Decedent. The court
grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of this cause of action.
Punitive
Damages
            Defendant argues the court
should grant its motion for summary adjudication of this issue given
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses. Under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff may
recover punitive damages if it proves by clear and convincing evidence the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. In this context, malice can
mean despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a conscious
disregard of the safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) In a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is on the defendant to show the
plaintiff cannot prove the defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. (Fadeef
v. State Farm General Insurance Co. (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 94, 109.) Then
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish evidence supporting punitive
damages with the clear and convincing standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
            In
support, Defendant points to Special Interrogatory No. 24 to Plaintiffs
Jennifer and Stephanie Habib and Special      Interrogatory
No. 100 to Plaintiff Loris Attia, which ask Plaintiffs to provide facts in
support of their request for punitive damages. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Ex. B; Ex.
C.) In response, Plaintiffs state that Defendant was aware that its product
could cause kidney cancer     because of
generally recognized scientific knowledge. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 11; Ex. J, pp.
47-48; Ex. K, pp. 55-56.) Even so, Defendant placed the product in the stream
of commerce without adequate warnings and thereby endangered Decedent. (Sayre
Decl., ¶¶ 11; Ex. J, pp. 47-48; Ex. K, pp. 55-56.) Moreover, Defendant’s CEO
ratified this decision. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 11; Ex. J, p. 49; Ex. K, p. 56.) 
            However,
the court finds Plaintiffs’ contention that Defendant knew about the risk of
kidney cancer speculative. That is, Plaintiffs’ responses do not cite any relevant
scientific study of which Defendant should have been aware. Without knowing its
products posed a risk of kidney cancer, Defendant could not have consciously
disregarded Decedent’s safety. Nor could Defendant’s CEO have knowingly
ratified the decision to sell the product without a necessary cancer           warning.
            Defendant
goes on to cite further discovery responses from Plaintiff. Special
Interrogatory Nos. 26-28 to Plaintiffs Jennifer and Stephanie Habib and Special
Interrogatory Nos. 102-104 to Plaintiff Loris Attia ask Plaintiffs to identify
documents that support their claim for punitive damages. (Sayre Decl., ¶¶ 3-4;
Ex. B; Ex. C.) Requests for Production Nos. 37-39 to Plaintiffs Jennifer and
Stephanie Habib and Requests for Production Nos. 87-89 to Plaintiff Loris Attia
ask Plaintiffs to produce documents that support their claim for punitive
damages. In response, Plaintiffs identity studies and tests conducted on Defendant’s
products. Plaintiffs also cite and produce material safety data sheets. (Sayre
Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12; Ex. J, pp. 52-55; Ex. K, pp. 60-63; Ex. L, pp. 49-52; Ex. M,
pp. 55-59.)         
            Although
Plaintiffs identify studies and tests conducted on Defendant’s products,
Plaintiffs do not cite any specific studies and tests or clarify whether they
would have alerted Defendant to the kidney cancer risk. And as noted above, the
material safety data sheets alone do not indicate whether Defendant knew about
the risk of cancer when the alleged concealment occurred. Consequently, the
sheets do not show that Defendant acted with a conscious disregard for
Decedent’s safety when it placed its product in the stream of commerce with
inadequate warnings. Thus, Defendant has met its prima facie burden.
            Plaintiffs,
for their part, maintain Defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for the
safety of Decedent and the public at large. To that end, Plaintiffs again rely
on the physician’s declaration. But the cited declaration paragraphs do not demonstrate
the link between Defendant’s product and cancer. Nor do the cited declaration
paragraphs suggest Defendant should have been aware of its product’s cancer
risk during the relevant timeframe. Thus, Plaintiffs have not created a triable
issue of material fact whether Defendant consciously disregarded
Decedent’s safety. The court grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
for the issue of punitive damages.
CONCLUSION
                The
court grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of
action and the issue of punitive damages.
            Defendant shall give notice.