    BACKGROUND   On February 22, 2024, Petitioner  Quality Loan Service Corp. (“Petitioner”) commenced this petition regarding  unresolved claims and deposit of undistributed surplus proceeds of trustee’s  sale.    On March 1, 2024, Petitioner filed  the instant motion to deposit surplus funds and to  discharge Petitioner. The motion is unopposed.   MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Petitioner  Quality Loan Service Corp. will move, and hereby does move this Court to  deposit surplus funds pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code §2924j(c) & (d) and to  discharge Petitioner from further responsibility for disbursement of the funds.   OPPOSITION               None filed.     REPLY               None filed. ANALYSIS   I.          Legal  Standard  If there is a surplus after  payment of a secured obligation, a trustee who does not file an interpleader  must serve by mail a prescribed notice of such surplus on all persons entitled  to notices of default under Civil Code §§ 2924b(b) & (c). If a conflict  exists that the trustee cannot resolve with due diligence, the trustee may, on  additional notice, file with the court a declaration of the unresolved claims  and deposit into court the amount remaining in dispute. (Civ. Code, §§  2924j(b), (c).) A summary procedure is provided for the court's resolution of  the claims, which must be heard within 90 days of the deposit. (Civ. Code, §§  2924j(c), (d).)   II.        Discussion   “If, after due diligence, the  trustee is unable to determine the priority of the written claims received by  the trustee to the trustee's sale surplus of multiple persons or if the trustee  determines there is a conflict between potential claimants, the trustee may  file a declaration of the unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of the  superior court of the county in which the sale occurred, that portion of the  sales proceeds that cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the clerk  pursuant to this subdivision. The declaration shall specify the date of the  trustee's sale, a description of the property, the names and addresses of all  persons sent notice pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the trustee  exercised due diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee provided  written notice as required by subdivisions (a) and (d) and the amount of the  sales proceeds deposited by the trustee with the court. Further, the trustee  shall submit a copy of the trustee's sales guarantee and any information  relevant to the identity, location, and priority of the potential claimants  with the court and shall file proof of service of the notice required by  subdivision (d) on all persons described in subdivision (a).”  (Civ. Code, § 2924j(c).)    Petitioner asserts that it sent  required notice of the surplus to all potential claimants to the Property at  their respective addresses of record. (Podmenik Decl. ¶¶3-6, Exhs. A-C.)  Specifically, on November 22, 2023, Petitioner sent Notice of Surplus Funds  From Trustee's Sale to all potential claimants at their addresses of record as  required by Civil Code § 2924j(a). (Podmenik Decl. ¶3, Exh. A.) As Petitioner  did not receive any claim from the priority lien in favor of Secretary of  Housing and Urban Development recorded on 1/19/2007 as Instrument Number  20070108221, Petitioner mailed a Second Notice of Surplus Funds to all persons  entitled to Notice on January 4, 2024. (Podmenik Decl. ¶4, Exh. B.) “Because  Petitioner did not receive a claim from Secretary of Housing and Urban  Development, Petitioner is unable to determine how surplus funds should be  distributed.” (Podmenik Decl. ¶5.) Accordingly, the instant petition was filed.  On February 22, 2024, Petitioner mailed Notice of Petition to Deposit Surplus  Funds to all persons entitled to notice as required under Civil Code §  2924j(d). (Podmenik Decl. ¶6, Exh. C.)    However, the Court observes that the  declaration of Petitioner’s counsel does not include (1) the date of sale, (2)  a description of the property, (3) names and addresses of all persons sent  notice, (4) an affirmative statement of due diligence, or (5) the amount of  surplus to be deposited, as required under Civil Code § 2924j(c). There is also  no copy of the trustee’s sales guarantee or statement regarding other relevant  information regarding the priority of the potential claimants as required under  Civil Code § 2924j(c).  Lastly, Petitioner  requests $3,137.32 in costs and attorney’s fees, but the Petitioner’s counsel’s  declaration does not provide an explanation nor support for the amount sought.    Accordingly, the Court cannot  approve the petition.     III.       Conclusion                           For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner Quality Loan  Service Corp.’s Motion to Deposit Surplus Funds and to Discharge Petitioner is CONTINUED to JUNE 27, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.     Petitioner must serve and electronically file supplemental  papers addressing the deficiencies noted in this Court’s order 16 days prior to  the next scheduled hearing.  Failure to  do so may result in the Petition being denied or placed off calendar.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.