

 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
subrogation action filed by State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company
(Plaintiff) against Edgar Gallardo (Defendant) after it was alleged by
Plaintiff’s insured that Defendant negligently caused an automobile collision with
Plaintiff’s insured. Plaintiff brought suit against Defendant for $10,807.99.
(Complaint, ¶ 7-10.) The parties settled. The motion now before the Court is
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal and Enter Judgment (the Motion). The
Motion is unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
 
            The governing statute here is CCP §
664.6(a) which provides: “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or
orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.
If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties
to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff demonstrates that the
parties entered into a settlement agreement (the Settlement) with the Court
retaining jurisdiction. The Settlement required that Defendant make monthly
payments of $100.00 to pay off a sum of $4,500.00. (Declaration of Susan M.
Benson, ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. 1.) However, Plaintiff contends that the last payment
received was August 11, 2023 (Id., at ¶ 5.) Defendant has only paid a
total of $400.00, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s notice of default and attempts to
continue the payment plan. (Id., at ¶¶ 6-7, Exh. 2.)  The terms of the Settlement allow for the
Court to enter a judgment should the default not be cured. As the default has
yet to be cured, the Motion is granted, and judgment entered as of the date of
this order. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Set Aside Dismissal Entered on 07/03/2023 and to Enter Judgment is GRANTED.

 
            Judgment is
entered for Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $4,100.00. 
 
 Plaintiff is ordered to electronically submit
a proposed form of judgment within 10 days of this Court’s ruling. 
 

            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 