

 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 12,
2022, Wendy Sandoval filed a Complaint on behalf of herself and two minor
children (Plaintiffs) after an automobile accident. Plaintiffs alleged that Zai
Huang (Defendant) negligently drove their vehicle and collided with Plaintiffs’
vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ GN-1.) On January 9, 2024, the case was dismissed for
failure to prosecute. The motion now before the Court is a Motion to Vacate the
Order of Dismissal (the Motion). The Motion is unopposed.   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
 
            Plaintiffs
file the Motion under Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) which provides: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”
 
Analysis
 
            Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel provides
an affidavit that declares that the failure to prosecute was caused by a
mis-calendaring by counsel’s office. (Declaration of Eugene S. Fu, ¶ 5.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel notes that the mis-calendaring stems from what appears to
be the unexpected resignation of a legal assistant. Counsel reassures the Court
that oversights like this will be prevented in the future as the office has
implemented measures that allow for court dates to be meticulously tracked. (Id.
at ¶ 7.) The Court notes that California has a strong public policy in
favor of deciding cases on the merits, especially if the opposing party has
suffered no prejudice. (Oliveros¿v.
County of Los Angeles¿(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1389, 1398-1399. Also see CCP
§ 583.130.) As the mistake
described by Plaintiffs’ counsel is representative of the types of mistake Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b) is meant to address, the Motion is granted.  
 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Vacate the Order of Dismissal Entered on January 9, 2024 is
GRANTED. 
 
            The Court
sets an Order Show Cause Re: Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default/Default
Judgment for JULY 9, 2024, at 9:30 am in Department 25 of the Sprong Street
Courthouse.  
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 