This is a matter relating to legal malpractice, fraud, and conversion.  Defendants Sidney Sungchul Sohn, Alexander Tsao, and Venerable-Counselors At Law, PC seek to enforce a settlement with Plaintiff Jose Ronquillo.  They contend that Plaintiff directly approached Defendants and told them that he had terminated his current counsel, FLG; the parties agreed to a settlement; Plaintiff accepted and cashed Defendants’ check; Plaintiff signed a request for dismissal, but—contrary to their knowledge—never filed the request for dismissal; and, instead, Plaintiff thereafter obtained a fraudulent default judgment against Defendants in the amount of $1 million, which was set aside on June 28, 2024.  Defendants seek for the parties’ settlement to be enforced by dismissing this action.FLG argues that it was improper and unethical for Defendants to directly communicate with Plaintiff and that Defendants should have checked the docket to see if a substitution of attorney had been filed.  FLG contends that there was no meeting of the minds for a settlement under these circumstances.The Court is authorized to enter judgment pursuant to a stipulated settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.)  In reviewing a motion to enforce a settlement, the Court determines “whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.”  (Hines v. Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182.)  “A settlement is enforceable under section 664.6 only if the parties agreed to all material settlement terms.  [Citations.]  The court ruling on the motion may consider the parties’ declarations and other evidence in deciding what terms the parties agreed to, and the court’s factual findings in this regard are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard.  [Citations.]  If the court determines that the parties entered into an enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a formal judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Id. at pp. 1182-1183; see also Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1357 [“Strong public policy in favor of the settlement of civil cases gives the trial court, which approves the settlement, the power to enforce it”].)It’s not apparent that there was any ethical violation.  The contention is that Plaintiff called Venerable-Counselors at Law, PC, Sohn, and Tsao, who were representing themselves at the time.  Indeed, the “rule . . . does not prohibit a lawyer who is a party to a legal matter from communicating on his or her own behalf with a represented person* in that matter.”  (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 4.2.)  Further, the Court finds that there was a valid settlement between the parties and that Plaintiff accepted Defendants’ check and cashed it.  (Sohn Decl., Exhibits A-C.)  As the Court has retained jurisdiction, the Motion to Enforce Settlement is granted.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.) Moving party to give notice.