 This is an action in which Plaintiff Latoya S. Redd claims that Defendants failed to pay her $35,489.51 attorneys’ fee lien with settlement funds from case no. YC072873.  On May 15, 2024, the Court entered defaults for Defendants Marc S. Feldman, Boshra G. Khoder, and Brett G. Hampton.Defendants now seek to set aside their defaults.  The discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  The statute is liberally construed in order to give effect to the policy favoring resolution of disputes on their merits.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.)  To be entitled to relief under the statute, the moving party must demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for his or her default, as well as diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the default.  Whether the moving party has carried this burden is a question to be resolved in the discretion of the trial court.  (Ibid.)For relief to be warranted, any mistake must be something other than professional incompetence or ignorance of the law.  (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.)  The term “surprise” refers to “some condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  Similarly, to be excusable, a litigant’s inadvertence or neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Ibid.) Here, Defendants have shown excusable neglect. Hampton indicates he miscalendared the extended date to respond to the Complaint and filed an answer six days after having initially been warned of a default.  Further, it seems that Defendants did not learn of the defaults until about the time they received Plaintiff’s motion to strike.  The instant Motion was filed about three weeks later.  The Court cannot say that Defendants have acted without diligence. Contrary to Plaintiff’s arguments, adequate notice for the Motion was provided to the extent that CCP § 473(b) was cited.  Additionally, the answer, while now stricken, remains viewable for reference.  In sum, the Motion is granted.  The answer is resurrected.  The objections are overruled.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 