 Case Number:  24SMCV00937    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
TRE D, Inc., et al., v. Blake, Case
no. 24SMCV00937
Hearing date November 25, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Writ of Attachment and Right to Attach Order
Plaintiffs
TRE D, Inc. and Wilson sue for breach of construction agreement, unjust
enrichment and foreclosure of mechanic’s lien arising from defendants’ failure
to pay plaintiffs for construction and repair work on three projects in Malibu.
Plaintiffs recorded a mechanic’s lien of $349,909.69 on 1/26/24 and now move
for a writ of attachment and right to attach order.
A
writ of an attachment may issue on a claim for money based on contract where
the total amount owed is equal to or greater than $500, and the amount sought
is “fixed or readily ascertainable” by reference to the contract. A writ of
attachment may not issue against a claim secured by real property, and it may
only issue against a natural person when the claim arises out of the conduct of
a “trade, business, or profession.” Code Civ. Proc. §483.010. A writ of
attachment will only issue if the court finds (1) the claim on which the writ
is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued, (2) plaintiff
established the probable validity of the underlying claim, (3) the attachment
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based, and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero. Code Civ. Proc. §484.090.
Plaintiffs
correctly argue a breach of contract claim is a claim for which a writ of
attachment may issue and argue the probable validity of the underlying claim. 
Defendants
argue plaintiffs failed to adhere to the terms of the construction contract and
assert plaintiffs’ construction services were defective. Decl. Livingston,
para. 5. 
Defendants
argue plaintiffs bear the burden of establishing the claim is based on a
contract and of a "fixed or readily ascertainable amount." Cal. Code
Civ. Proc §483.010(a). Defendants argue the claims arise from a contract for $3,000,000
with terms for extra work, and the invoices plaintiffs submitted violate those
terms. Defendants argue this further undercuts the probable validity of
plaintiffs’ claims.
Defendants
argue plaintiffs previously attached a mechanic’s lien to the properties,
securing the claim with real property; one of plaintiffs’ claims is foreclosure
of mechanic’s lien. Code Civ. Proc. §483.010 establishes a writ of attachment
may not issue against a claim secured by real property. Defendants argue the
attachment of the mechanic’s lien qualifies as securing plaintiffs’ claims with
real property, so the writ is improper. Plaintiffs already secured their claims
with a mechanic’s lien, prohibiting issuance of a writ of attachment per Code
Civ. Proc. §483.010. DENIED.