 Case Number:  23SMCV04139    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Slalom, Inc. v. Aspiration
Partners, Inc., Case no. 23SMCV04139
Hearing date November 25, 2024
Plaintiff’s Motion for Writ of
Attachment
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Plaintiff
Slalom sues defendant Aspiration dba Catona for breach of written contract,
work, labor, services and materials and account stated, alleging failure to pay
for consulting services, totaling $2,617,224.85 plus interest. Defendant moved
to compel arbitration based on the master services agreement (MSA). Plaintiff
stipulated to arbitration but sought a writ of attachment. The tentative ruling
of 9/24/24 was to grant a writ of attachment contingent on plaintiff posting a
$10,000 undertaking and grant defendant’s motion to compel arbitration,
referring the matter to arbitration after the writ of attachment issued. Id.

After
oral argument, the court allowed supplemental briefs regarding defendant’s
solvency. Id. Defendant’s briefing filed 10/7/24 included a supplemental
declaration of Staton Hammock. Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing of 10/9/2024
requested judicial notice and attached a supplemental declaration of Marshall
August. Defendant objected to plaintiff’s RJN and supplemental declaration. The
court overruled defendant’s objections and continued the matter for defendant
to file a supplemental reply. Min. Order 10/24/24.
A
writ of an attachment may only issue in an action on a claim for money based on
contract where the total amount owed is equal to or greater than $500, and the
amount sought is “fixed or readily ascertainable” by reference to the contract.
A writ of attachment may not issue against a claim secured by real property,
and it may only issue against a natural person when the claim arises out of the
conduct of a “trade, business, or profession.” Code Civ. Proc. §483.010. A writ
of attachment will only issue if the court finds (1) the claim on which the
writ is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued, (2) plaintiff
established the probable validity of the underlying claim, (3) the attachment
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based, and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero. Code Civ. Proc. §484.090.
Plaintiff’s
10/9/24 RJN and supplemental declaration asserted defendant was experiencing
cash flow issues, evidenced by counsel Hammock’s statements in Media Force
Comm. (2007) LTD, etc. vs. Aspiration Partners, Inc., etc. et. al. (USDC, Case
No. 2:23-cv-037992 FLA-SK), filed June 5, 2024. Defendant argues Hammock
consistently affirmed defendant’s financial viability throughout all filings in
the case at hand. See Supp. Decl. Hammock generally. 
The
court’s previous tentative was to issue the writ of attachment. Plaintiff has
since proffered evidence casting doubt on whether an arbitration award would be
at risk as a result of defendant's financial situation. Defendant argues a writ
of attachment is an extraordinary measure requiring stringent evidence. The
court agrees and finds plaintiff satisfies the evidentiary requirement. 
Plaintiff
offered the declarations of counsel August, accounts receivable manager
Hitchcock, defense counsel Hammock and counsel in Media Force, Scott
Glasmoyer, in support of its position. Plaintiff asserts defendant began to
experience cashflow issues October 2022. Decl. Hammock para. 2. Plaintiff
asserts defendant fired approximately 75% of its workforce in October 2022. Id.
Plaintiff asserts defendant currently owes plaintiff $2,648,287.09. Decl.
Hitchcock para. 18. Plaintiff asserts defendant was struggling to raise
additional capital as of May 2023. Decl. August para. 4. Plaintiff asserts
defendant was unable to pay for legal services as recently as August 2023.
Decl. Glassmoyer para. 5. Plaintiff asserts defendant was subject to a writ of
attachment in the Media Force, supra, case. RJN exh. 3. 
This
demonstrates defendant is at best subject to multiple litigation while
experiencing cashflow issues, and at worst on the verge of insolvency.
Plaintiff has demonstrated any award from arbitration is at risk of being
rendered ineffective, so the court’s 9/24/24 tentative ruling is the ruling of
the court. 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a writ of attachment is GRANTED contingent on plaintiff posting a
$10,000 undertaking. Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is subsequently
GRANTED following issuance of plaintiff’s writ of attachment.