  Case Number:  22STCV07271    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Ramirez v. Tejeda
21STCV07271
Motion to set aside notice of settlement of entire case
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part
Background
On February 24, 2021, Plaintiffs Adalberto Ramirez
(“Ramirez”), Fernando Santana Velazco (“Velazco”) and Mark Anthony Velasquez
(“Velasquez”) filed a complaint against Juan Carlos Tejeda (“Tejeda”), Braxton
R, LLC (”Braxton”), and Does 1 through 50 for negligence arising out of an automobile
accident occurring on February 4, 2020.


On June 29, 2022, Tejeda filed an answer. 
 
On March 20, 2023, Braxton filed an answer.
 
In April and June 2023, Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco (only)
substituted in new counsel at the Dufour Law. 
Plaintiff Velasquez continued to be represented by counsel at the
Heidari Law Group.  
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco
amended the complaint to name Tejeda Transportation, LLC (“Tejeda Transportation”)
as Doe 1.
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) adding causes of action for negligent
entrustment; negligent hiring, training, retention, and supervision; and
negligence per se.
 
On February 9, 2024, Tejeda and Braxton filed an answer
to the FAC.
 
On April 8, 2024, Tejeda filed a notice of stay of
proceedings as to him as a result of his bankruptcy filing.
 
On June 21, 2024, the Heidari Law Group filed a notice of
settlement of entire case “only as to [Plaintiff] Ramirez.”  (This appears to have been an error, as the
Heidari Law Group has not represented Plaintiff Ramirez since June 2023.)  Because a notice of settlement of the entire
case was filed, the Court on the same day advanced and vacated the trial date.
 
Five days later, on June 26, 2024, the Heidari Law Group
filed an amended notice of settlement of entire case “only as to [Plaintiff]
Velasquez.”  
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco applied
ex parte for an order shortening time on a motion to set aside the notice of
settlement, to restore the case to active status, and for sanctions.  The ex parte application was denied, without
prejudice to hearing the motion on regular notice.
 
On August 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco filed this motion.  Plaintiffs seek (1) to set aside the notices
of settlement of entire case filed by the Heidari Law Group; (2) to reinstate
the case; and (3) an order imposing monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Velasquez
and the Heidari Law Group.  
Neither Plaintiff
Velasquez nor anyone else filed an opposition to this motion.
Plaintiff Velasquez
did, however, file his own motion to set aside the notice of settlement.  That motion was filed on September 18 and is
set to be heard on October 14.  
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
A request for discretionary relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), must be made (subject to certain exceptions) “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made
within six months.  (Ibid.)
Discussion
Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco have not settled their claims
against the defendants.  (Dufour Decl., ¶15.)  Only Plaintiff Velasquez has settled.  (Ibid.)
 
Thus, it is clear that the notice of settlement of the
entire case was filed in error.  The request
to set aside the notice of settlement is granted.
 
The Court sets a trial date in approximately 120
days.  Proceedings remained stayed, however,
as to Defendant Tejeda.
 
Plaintiffs Ramirez and Velazco also seek sanctions
against Plaintiff Velasquez and the Heidari Law Group, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5. The Court finds that the actions of the Heidari Law
Group were mistaken but not made in bad faith, frivolous, or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)  Accordingly,
the request for sanctions is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to set aside the notices of settlement
of entire case filed on June 21 and June 26, 2024.
 
The Court SETS a trial date on February __, 2025, at 8:30
a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  
 
The Court SETS a Final Status Conference on January __,
2025, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial
date.
 
The case remains stayed as to Defendant Tejeda.
 
The Court DENIES the request for sanctions.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.