  Case Number:  20STCV45910    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




maria sao

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
new hampshire ball
   bearings, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV45910




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   8, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to seal
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant New Hampshire Ball
Bearings Inc.          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Maria Sao 
Motion to Seal 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant New Hampshire Ball Bearings Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order sealing exhibit 9 to the declaration of Teresa
Avila-Martinez, filed by Defendant in support of its motion for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication against plaintiff Maria Sao
(“Plaintiff”) on January 26, 2024.    
Generally,
court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by
law.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).)¿ If the presumption of
access applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(d).)¿ 
            The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of
showing that (1) there exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, and (2) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
2.550, subds. (d)(1), (d)(4); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 984 [“the party seeking to seal documents . . . must come
forward with a specific enumeration of the facts sought to be withheld and
specific reasons for withholding them”].) 
            First, the court notes that Defendant has submitted the
declaration of Teresa Avila-Martinez, one of its Human Resources Managers, in
which Avila-Martinez states that the subject instant messages contain
confidential and proprietary business information, detailed business practices,
and information regarding Defendant’s ongoing business operations, pricing, and
financial and inventory data. 
(Avila-Martinez Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10.) 
However, Defendant has not identified any specific communications
included in the instant messages set forth in exhibit 9 that contain confidential
and proprietary business information.  Moreover,
the court’s review of some of the documents shows that most of the messages do
not appear to include such information. Thus, Defendant has not shown that an
overriding interest overcomes the right of public access to exhibit 9.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550, subd.
(d)(1).) 
            Second, although Defendant requests that the court seal
exhibit 9 in its entirety, it has not shown that the proposed sealing is
narrowly tailored, particularly given that, as set forth above, Defendant has not
identified specific instant messages therein that set forth confidential and
proprietary information.  (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d)(4).)  
            The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion to
seal.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550,
subd. (d).) 
ORDER
The court denies defendant New Hampshire Ball Bearings Inc.’s
motion to seal. 
The court orders plaintiff Maria Sao to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 8, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court