 Case Number:  22STCV16977    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JESSICA DE ROTHSCHILD, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
DIANA LANDS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV16977
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING CROSS-DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 19, 2024



 
On
February 24, 2023, Cross-Complainants Diana Lands AKA Diana Lands Nathanson (“Lands”)
and Diana Lands Nathanson Design, Inc. (“Design”) filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“FACC”) in this action against Cross-Defendants Jessica De Rothschild, Alexander
Gervasi, and Industria (USA) LLC alleging (1) negligence; (2) breach of contract
(implied contract); (3) breach of contract (unformalized agreement); (4) breach
of contract (common count – goods and services rendered); (5) quantum meruit; (6)
defamation; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) negligent infliction
of emotional distress; and (9) negligence per se.  The sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action
have been dismissed.
On
July 26, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a motion for summary adjudication of the breach
of contract claims.  Cross-Complainants filed
an opposition.  Cross-Defendants did not file
a reply.
BACKGROUND
FACTS
Cross-Defendants
requested that Lands send them a written contract for her services “in the very
beginning” of her work on the Nichols Canyon Project.  (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” 7.)  Cross-Defendants asked Lands again to send a contract,
but Lands does not know when they asked or how many times they asked.  (UMF 8.) 
The first time Lands sent a proposed contract to Cross-Defendants was on
March 1, 2022.  (UMF 10.)  Cross-Defendants never signed the contract.  (UMF 12.)
Lands
began working on the Nichols Canyon Project in March or April 2021.  (UMF 9.) 
Lands’s fee on the Nichols Canyon Project was “a moving target because the
scope changed often.”  (UMF 2.)  She figured out what her fees would be on the
Nichols Canyon Project by “[c]alculating the amount of time that I spent on the
project, the amount of items that were purchased, and cutting it in more than half
because they were my friends.”  (UMF 3; see
UMF 4.)
Lands
never presented Cross-Defendants with a proposed written contract for the Malibu
Project.  (UMF 15.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
Cross-Defendants
argue that the FACC’s second, third, and fourth causes of action fail because the
parties did not agree to material contract terms, and thus no contract was formed.  (Motion at p. 6.)
Cross-Complainants
asks the Court for a continuance so they can conduct discovery to oppose the motion.  (Opposition at pp. 7-11.)  If affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion
for summary judgment show that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot be presented, the Court shall deny the motion or order a continuance to permit
additional discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (h).)
On
September 3, 2024 Lands served written discovery on Cross-Defendants.  (Fine Decl. ¶ 4.)  Cross-Defendants’ discovery responses were not
received until October 24, 2024.  (Fine Decl.
¶ 7.)  Cross-Defendants claimed an inability
to admit or deny almost 73% of the requests for admission and did not properly respond
to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 with information about the denials.  (Fine Decl. ¶¶ 8-10, 16-17.)  Cross-Defendants provided only objections to 56%
of the special interrogatories and almost 70% of the special interrogatories.  (Fine Decl. ¶¶ 12-15.)  No documents were produced in response to Demand
for Production of Documents, Set Two.  (Fine
Decl. ¶ 18.)  Cross-Complainants contend that
“[m]any special interrogatories bore directly on the key argument raised by Cross-Defendants
in support of their Motion for Summary Adjudication—namely, the alleged failure
to reach an agreement with Cross-Defendants regarding certain material terms of
the implied contract for services.”  (Fine
Decl. ¶ 19; see Fine Decl. ¶¶ 19-26, 30-31.)
Ms.
Rothschild was deposed on October 29, 2024, a week before the opposition was due.  (Fine Decl. ¶ 33.)  Cross-Complainants have not yet received the final
transcript of Ms. Rothschild’s deposition, but they anticipate using it to show
the manner and terms of Lands’s payment, and the allegedly undefined nature of the
scope of her services.  (Fine Decl. ¶ 39.)  Cross-Complainants continued Mr. Gervasi’s deposition
pending the results of a motion to compel further discovery responses, due to Cross-Defendants’
deficient responses.  (Fine Decl. ¶ 34.)  They expect Mr. Gervasi to possess unique knowledge
regarding the scope of Lands’s services and the manner and terms of her payment.  (Fine Decl. ¶ 40.)
Cross-Defendants
did not file a reply or any opposition to the request for a continuance.
The
Court is inclined to continue the hearing and set deadlines for a supplemental opposition
and reply so Cross-Complainants may oppose the motion with the additional evidence.
At
the hearing, the parties should be prepared to discuss the scheduling of depositions,
supplemental discovery production, and related dates.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary adjudication is CONTINUED to ___________.
Cross-Complainants
may file an amended opposition and Cross-Defendants may file a reply pursuant to
statutory filing deadlines.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 