 Case Number:  22STCV31316    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LIDA KHORSANDI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SUSAN L. CHOBANIAN, M.D.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV31316
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO TAKE
  TWO NON-EXPERT DEPOSITIONS BEYOND DISCOVERY CUT-OFF DATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 19, 2024



 
On September 27, 2022, Plaintiff
Lida Khorsandi filed a first amended complaint against Defendant Susan L. Chobanian,
M.D.
At
the August 26, 2024 Final Status Conference, the Court continued the trial date
to April 28, 2025 and reset only expert-related discovery and motion deadlines.
On
October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to reopen discovery for the limited purpose
of taking the depositions of Defendant’s undisclosed witnesses.
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings . . . or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)  In considering whether to grant discretionary
relief, the Court should consider the necessity and reasons for the discovery, the
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking discovery, the reasons that
discovery was not completed earlier, any likelihood that permitting discovery will
prevent the case from going to trial or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar,
the likelihood that permitting discovery would prejudice any party, and the length
of time that has elapsed between any previous trial date and the current trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff
seeks to take the deposition of Mardiros Mihranian M.D.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Plaintiff first learned about this witness on
July 26, 2024, when Defendant sent an updated draft of the proposed joint trial
documents.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff also seeks to take the deposition of
Sousse Yaacoubian, who was first disclosed on Defendant’s August 9, 2024 updated
witness list.  (Id. at pp. 7-8.)
At
the August 26, 2024 Final Status Conference, the Court asked whether the parties
needed discovery and motion deadlines reset. 
(Motion at p. 9; Coleman Decl. ¶ 20 & Ex. 8 at p. 8.)  Plaintiff’s counsel stated that “there’s one or
two depositions that are implicated by the motions in limine.  Now that we have time, we can just agree among
ourselves, and can let those go forward without opening discovery fully.”  (Motion at p. 9; Coleman Decl. ¶ 20 & Ex.
8 at p. 8.)  The parties attempted to meet
and confer, but they never reached an agreement about deposing the two witnesses.  (See Motion at pp. 9-12.)
Defendant
“does not necessarily oppose the relief plaintiff requests in her Motion, but only
requests that the relief be appropriately tailored to the needs of the case.”  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Defendant has proposed limitations of one hour
of time and only questioning about “general background, relationship to the parties,
and office arrangement, configuration, equipment, and access.”  (Id. at p. 2.)
Defendant
has not shown why such limitations are necessary.  As Plaintiff notes, “if Defendant had timely disclosed
the witnesses she subsequently included on the witness list, Plaintiff would have
been entitled to notice and take their depositions without any limitations.”  (Reply at p. 2.)  There is no evidence that Plaintiff has engaged
in bad-faith tactics or abusive questioning at other depositions.
The
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED.  Plaintiff may depose Mardiros Mihranian M.D. and
Sousse Yaacoubian within 45 days.  All
other non-expert discovery remains closed.
The
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 