 Case Number:  22STCV27209    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THERESA CHANG, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRINKS GLOBAL SERVICES USA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER OF
  GLORIA CORRALES; SUSTAINING DEMURRER OF TANDY MOTLEY; SUSTAINING DEMURRER OF PILOT
  TRAVEL CENTERS LLC
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 19, 2024



 
On
August 22, 2022, Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants Gloria Corrales,
Pilot Travel Centers LLC (erroneously sued as Pilot Corporation dba Pilot Flying
J Travel Center) (“Pilot”), Tandy Motley (formerly Driver No. 1), and others.
On
March 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint (“4AC”).
On
March 25, 2024, Corrales and Motley each filed a demurrer.  On April 16, 2024, Pilot also filed a demurrer.  On June 26, 2024, Corrales filed an amended demurrer.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
DEMURRER
OF GLORIA CORRALES
Corrales’s
request for judicial notice is denied.  The
documents are either irrelevant or not proper subjects of judicial notice.  Corrales appears to rely on the truth of the deposition
testimony in another action, and the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth
of the contents.  (See Amended Demurrer at
pp. 14-17.)
The
4AC’s second (negligence), seventh (fraudulent concealment), eighth (intentional
misrepresentation), and ninth (negligent misrepresentation) causes of action are
alleged against Gloria Corrales.
A.        Plaintiffs Do Not Sufficiently Allege
a Duty Owed to Them (Negligence – Second Cause of Action).
A
cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
Corrales
argues that Plaintiffs again fail to allege an actionable duty.  (Amended Demurrer at p. 12.)  Plaintiffs allege that Corrales, a Sales and Show
Support Specialist for Brinks, advised them to understate the value of their property
on the Pickup Manifests and “sold Plaintiffs on the high level of protection that
Brinks’ armed transport services would provide.”  (4AC ¶¶ 29, 40.)  Corrales therefore “had a duty to fully inform
Plaintiffs of the consequences of understating their Property value under the terms
of contract, to the extent they apply, and had a duty to fully inform Plaintiffs
of the lax security that would be exercised by the Brinks drivers in handling Plaintiffs’
property.”  (4AC ¶ 40.)
 “[T]he complaint must allege facts sufficient to
show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due care . . . .  The duty of care is always related to some circumstance
of time, place and person.”  (Bellah v.
Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.) 
Allegations about Corrales advising, or failing to advise, Plaintiffs of
the consequences of the contract do not state facts establishing a legal duty.
Plaintiffs
argue that there was a special duty owed because “Corrales in this case undertook
voluntarily to tell customers what they should or could fill in on the Pickup Manifest”
and “Corrales voluntarily assumed a duty to instruct Plaintiffs concerning the Pickup
Manifest when she did not have to do so, and Plaintiffs relied on her.  Having undertaken that duty, she had a responsibility
to perform it in a non-negligent manner.” 
(Opposition at pp. 9-10.)  Like Plaintiffs’
opposition to Corrales’s prior demurrer, the argument about Corrales’s agency is
premised on cases involving the duty of disclosure by insurance agents.  (Opposition at pp. 6-13; see Bock v. Hansen
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 215, 230; Desai v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1114-15, 1119; Paper Savers, Inc. v. Nacsa (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th
1090, 1096-1098.)  Corrales is a Sales and
Show Support Specialist for Brinks, not an insurance agent.  (4AC ¶ 37.)
The
demurrer is sustained on this ground.
B.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Fraud with Particularity
(Seventh, Eighth, Ninth Causes of Action).
Corrales
argues that Plaintiffs do not allege that her statements were material to inducement
or that Plaintiffs justifiably relied on any statements.  (Amended Demurrer at pp. 18-21.)
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)  “Causes of action for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element must
be pleaded with specificity.”  (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  “‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’  [Citation.]”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.)
Fraud
based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact
to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Corrales “advised multiple Plaintiffs to understate their value on the
Pickup Manifests in order to save money, because the cost of shipping would be too
expensive if they declared the full value of their goods.”  (4AC ¶ 29.) 
This does not allege a false statement. 
The allegations that Corrales “represented to certain Plaintiffs that they
should claim the minimum insurance value, [and] it would be less expensive and the
protection was the same” does not allege the substance and manner of the misrepresentation
with particularity.  (4AC ¶ 95.)  Allegations about Corrales’s intent to induce
and Plaintiffs’ reliance are also conclusory. 
(See 4AC ¶¶ 96, 104-105.)  Additionally,
a party cannot justifiably rely on representations that are contradicted by the
governing contract.  (See Hadland v. NN
Investors Life Ins. Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1578, 1588-1589.)  For the reasons discussed with the negligence
claim, Plaintiffs also do not sufficiently allege a duty to disclose for fraudulent
concealment (seventh cause of action).
The
demurrer is sustained on this ground.
C.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is sustained.  Because Plaintiffs
have not shown how they can amend the complaint to remedy the deficiencies, no further
leave to amend is granted.
DEMURRER
OF TANDY MOTLEY
Tandy
Motley (formerly Driver No. 1) demurs to the second (negligence) and fourth (conversion)
causes of action.
A.        Plaintiffs Do Not Sufficiently Allege
a Duty Owed to Them (Negligence – Second Cause of Action).
Motley,
an employee of Brinks, argues that Plaintiffs do not plead facts showing a statutory
duty.  (Demurrer at pp. 9-11.)  An employee or agent of a corporation does not
owe a duty to a third-party plaintiff with whom the corporation enters a business
contract.  (See Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden
Claims Services, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 251-255; Gay v. Broder
(1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 66, 75.)
Plaintiffs
argue that Motley owed them a duty of care as a bailee.  (Opposition at pp. 6-7.)  “A depositary for hire must use at least ordinary
care for the preservation of the thing deposited.”  (Civ. Code, § 1852.)  Here, however, Plaintiffs contracted with Brinks
as a bailee, not Motley.
The
demurrer is sustained.
B.        The Negligence Cause of Action is Barred
by the Economic Loss Rule.
Motley
also argues that the damages alleged in this cause of action should be barred by
the economic loss rule.  (Demurrer at pp.
7-8.)  “Quite
simply, the economic loss rule ‘prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of tort
from dissolving one into the other.’”  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson Helicopter).)  However, tort damages may be permitted when the
breach of contract is accompanied by a tort. 
(Id. at pp. 989-990.)  To
plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead the existence of a duty
that arises independent of any contractual duty and independent injury, other than
economic loss, that arises from the breach of that duty.  (Id. at pp. 988-991.)
The
4AC does not contain facts establishing any duty owed by Motley individually.  Plaintiffs allege that as a result of Motley’s
negligence, “Plaintiffs have suffered losses collectively in the amount of approximately
$100 million” and lost profits due to “the physical loss of Plaintiffs’ jewelry
and gemstones.”  (4AC ¶¶ 41-42.)  The 4AC does not distinguish between the harms
caused by Motley’s alleged negligence and the harms caused by Brinks breaching the
contract to securely transport the items. 
(See 4AC ¶¶ 41-42.)  Because Plaintiffs
are seeking tort damages from Motley based on another party’s breach of contract,
the demurrer is sustained.
C.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Intent for Conversion
(Fourth Cause of Action).
Motley argues that Plaintiffs never allege that Motley specifically
intended to dispose of Plaintiffs’ property. 
(Demurrer at pp. 12-13.)  Conversion
requires (1) plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property,
(2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages.  (Fremont Indemnity
Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “To prove a cause of action for conversion, the
plaintiff must show the defendant acted intentionally to wrongfully dispose of the
property of another.”  (Duke v. Superior
Court (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 490, 508.)
Plaintiffs allege that Brinks “substantially interfered with Plaintiffs’
ownership and right to possession of that property by failing to deliver the property
back to Plaintiffs at the Pasadena jewelry show and by failing to return that property
to Plaintiffs in response to their demands for its return.”  (4AC ¶ 54.) 
There are no specific allegations about Motley’s intentional interference.
“Plaintiffs
concede that their allegations of intentional or wrongful dispossession of property
against Motley are wanting,” but they contend that they can satisfactorily amend.  (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  According to Plaintiffs, “Motley passed up the
chance to stop 15 miles earlier at a truck stop with roving security in order to
drive to the Flying J,” “parked there, at 2:00 a.m., without backing up to a lightpost,
or a fence, or another truck so as to prevent access to the rear door of the trailer,”
“stopped to take the half-hour break mandated every eight hours, even though his
entire trip was less than seven hours, “did not wake up his co-driver,” and “ate
his meal in the truck stop, out of sight of his truck, when he could have brought
his food back to the truck.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs argue that these facts “point to the
very reasonable inference that Motley had a part in intentionally depriving Plaintiffs
of their property, and was not a mere negligent bailee.”  (Id. at p. 9.)
These
additional facts do not show that Motley acted intentionally
to wrongfully dispose of Plaintiffs’ property. 
“Not every failure to deliver property to the rightful owner constitutes
a conversion.  [Citation.]  ‘To establish a conversion, it is incumbent upon
the plaintiff to show an intention or purpose to convert the goods and to exercise
ownership over them, or to prevent the owner from taking possession of the property.’  [Citation.]” 
(Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 222.)
The demurrer is sustained.
D.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is sustained.  Because Plaintiffs
have not shown how they can amend the complaint to remedy the deficiencies, no further
leave to amend is granted.
DEMURRER
OF PILOT TRAVEL CENTERS LLC
Pilot
demurs to the sixth cause of action for premises liability, the only cause of action
alleged against it.
California
law requires landowners to maintain land in their possession and control in a reasonably
safe condition.  (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza
Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).)  The liability of landowners for injuries to people
on their property is governed by general negligence principles.  (Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1407 (Pineda).)    A cause of
action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due
care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) 
The existence of a legal duty is a question for the court to determine, and
“foreseeability is a ‘crucial factor’ in determining the existence and scope of
a legal duty.”  (Delgado v. Trax Bar &
Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 237, citing Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at
pp. 674, 676 (Delgado).) 
Like
with its prior demurrers, Pilot argues that it is not liable for third parties’
unforeseeable criminal conduct.  (Demurrer
at pp. 3-11.)   “[A] high degree of foreseeability
is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes
the hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of foreseeability rarely,
if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime
on the landowner’s premises.  To hold otherwise
would be to impose an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force landlords
to become the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established policy in
this state.”  (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th
at p. 679, footnote omitted.)  “Heightened
foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal incidents
(or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults
in that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal
incidents.  (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th
at p. 245.)
Like
the prior complaints, the 4AC alleges that “[t]he immediate area of the Flying J
Truck Stop has a known history of property thefts, and there have been prior incidents
of thefts of personal property, including from vehicles.  In just the four months immediately preceding
the theft from this Brinks vehicle, there were at least four known thefts of property
in the area and four known instances of physical assault.”  (TAC ¶ 71.)
Plaintiffs
allegations of other criminal activity do not allege “prior similar incidents of
violent crime on the landowner’s premises.” 
(Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679.)  Plaintiffs allege theft of a golf cart in 2019;
a bomb threat in April 2020; theft of an iPod, a necklace, cash kept in a center
console, and credit card information from a vehicle; a stolen truck; stolen catalytic
converters; a tractor-trailer cargo theft five years ago; money stolen from a vehicle;
stolen debit and credit card information; shoplifting; grand theft of a vehicle;
violations of weapons laws; assault; and trespass.  (4AC ¶¶ 72-74.)
Plaintiffs
also allege that “another large truck stop in the same geographical area, Lebec,
California, that also has hundreds of parking spots, employs security guard patrols
to discourage crime at their locations, as well as such other security measures
as adequate lighting.”  (4AC ¶ 71.)  This relates to a non-party location and does
not allege Pilot’s knowledge of those incidents at the other location.
The
demurrer is sustained.  Plaintiffs have had
several prior opportunities to amend, and they have failed to cure the deficiencies.  Accordingly, no further leave to amend is granted.
CONCLUSION
Gloria
Corrales’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The Court orders Gloria Corrales DISMISSED from
this action.
Tandy
Motley’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The Court orders Tandy Motley DISMISSED from this
action.
Pilot
Travel Centers LLC’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The Court orders Pilot Travel Centers LLC DISMISSED
from this action.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 