  Case Number:  19STCV33144    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants The Regents of the University of California, Andrew Hudson, M.D., Linda Liau, M.D., and Albert Lai, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Linda Liau, M.D., DENIED as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Defendants The Regents of the University of California and Andrew Hudson, M.D., and DENIED without prejudice as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Defendant Albert Lai, M.D.Defendants The Regents of the University of California, Andrew Hudson, M.D., Linda Liau, M.D., and Albert Lai, M.D. to give notice. REASONINGDefendants The Regents of the University of California, Andrew Hudson, M.D., Linda Liau, M.D., and Albert Lai, M.D. move the Court for an order granting summary judgment in their favor and against Plaintiff Richard Zajac (“Plaintiff”).First, the Court notes that the motion is represented as being brought by Defendant Albert Lai, M.D., but neither the memorandum of points and authorities nor the separate statement supporting the motion include any discussion about Defendant Albert Lai, M.D., and the reply supporting the motion concedes that the motion should be denied without prejudice as to Dr. Lai for this reason. Accordingly, Defendants The Regents of the University of California, Andrew Hudson, M.D., Linda Liau, M.D., and Albert Lai, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED without prejudice as to Defendant Albert Lai, M.D. The Court continues its analysis as to only Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“the Regents”), Andrew Hudson, M.D., and Linda Liau, M.D. (collectively “Defendants”).Second, the Court has not considered “Defendants’ Response to Plaintiff’s Additional Material Facts,” as such a document is a reply separate statement not authorized by statute, and Defendants failed to seek leave of court to file such a document. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 [“There is no provision in the statute for” including a reply separate statement].)Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Analysis“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)The Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.) provides for steep penalties against those who abuse an elder or a dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse, neglect, isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of necessary goods or services, and financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).) Neglect includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).) [S]everal factors [] must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, citations omitted.)In his Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), Plaintiff alleges that he underwent surgery at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center for a reoperation on a low-grade brain tumor, and as a result of negligent operative and postoperative care, as managed by the lead neurosurgeon Dr. Liau and lead anesthesiologist Dr. Hudson, Plaintiff suffered a severe brain injury that has caused him substantial and permanent disability. (TAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that shortly after the surgery, he remained under the Regents’ and Dr. Lai’s care, which included monitoring Plaintiff to evaluate the condition of his brain where the low-grade glioma brain tumor had been located prior to surgery and evaluating whether there was any regrowth of brain tumor. (TAC ¶ 10.) In May 2021, Plaintiff was advised that some of the low-grade glioma brain tumor had been left behind during the surgery, and the portion of tumor that had been left behind had doubled in size since the September 2018 surgery, causing Plaintiff to require additional medical treatment. (Ibid.)In the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that the Regents, Dr. Hudson, and Dr. Liau were negligent in their diagnosis, care, and treatment of Plaintiff when they failed to properly perform the surgery, monitor and maintain Plaintiff’s anesthesia and vital signs during surgery, recognize and respond to signs and symptoms of Plaintiff’s brain injury during and after surgery, and properly intervene, treat, and protect Plaintiff after the signs of a brain injury had become obvious. (TAC ¶ 13.)In the second cause of action, a dependent adult abuse claim against the Regents, Dr. Hudson, and Dr. Liau, Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff and his father met with Dr. Liau in person at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center approximately 30 to 60 days before the surgery, and Dr. Liau assured Plaintiff and his father that Plaintiff would be taken directly to the neuro-intensive care unit after surgery, which was confirmed in subsequent communications, and on the morning of the September 18, 2018, surgery, Dr. Hudson again told Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s father that Plaintiff would be taken directly to the neuro-intensive care unit immediately after surgery. (TAC ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that both doctors had the authority to inform Plaintiff as to whether this would occur, and at no point was Plaintiff informed of the possibility Plaintiff would be taken to the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit if there was a bed shortage in the neuro-intensive care unit. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that he was harmed by the substandard care he received for a patient in a neuro-crisis, which included failing to intubate to protect Plaintiff’s airway and provide mechanical ventilation to ensure he received sufficient oxygen, and, as a result, Plaintiff went more than two hours without re-intubation following surgery, causing progression and worsening of his ongoing brain injury. (TAC ¶ 22.)In the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that the Regents and Dr. Lai were negligent in their diagnosis, care, and treatment of Plaintiff when they failed to properly diagnose and treat the recurrence and growth of the brain tumor. (TAC ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Lai repeatedly told Plaintiff that his radiological studies have shown no growth of tumor tissue, but in May 2021, Dr. Lai informed Plaintiff that there has been modest brain tumor growth since at least June 2020. (Ibid.)Defendants present evidence that Plaintiff underwent neurosurgery on September 18, 2018, at Ronald Reagan UCLA for craniotomy for resection of a recurrent glioma, a type of brain tumor, and Plaintiff suffered from diffuse ischemic changes in the brain. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 4, 5.) Defendants provide the expert declaration at Arun P. Amar, M.D., the Chief of Neurosurgery, Stroke Director, Director of Endovascular Neurosurgery, and Associate Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, at Los Angeles County - USC Medical Center, who states that the mechanism of the ischemic changes and associated alleged brain injury cannot be identified within a reasonable degree of medical probability. (Defs.’ UMF No. 6.) Dr. Amar states that at a pathophysiological level, a widespread systemic abnormality behind the global changes should be apparent, but such is not; hypertension, hypoxia, seizure activity, and hemorrhage causing low blood pressure do not appear to be the causes based on the evidence; although the causative mechanism is not clear, Dr. Amar opines that Plaintiff was free of injury when he was successful extubated during the surgery with the ability to cooperate and speak while Dr. Liau operated on the “speech area” of the brain; and Dr. Liau operated in a region of the brain that would not be expected to result in global changes on an MRI. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 10-16.)Dr. Amar opines that the cause of Plaintiff’s alleged injury remains unclear, having excluded the above possible mechanisms, and Plaintiff’s ongoing health concerns could have contributed to Plaintiff’s injury. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 17-18.) Thus, Dr. Amar opines that, based upon a reasonable degree of medical probability, there exists no plausible mechanism to explain Plaintiff’s alleged injury in this case, and there is no credible evidence to suggest that any act or omission by any of the defendants, either individually or collectively, contributed to Plaintiff’s injury. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 19-20.) This evidence allows Defendants to meet their burden of establishing that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s medical malpractice and dependent adult abuse claims because Defendants did not cause Plaintiff’s harm.In opposition, Plaintiff provides the declaration of Sara Meitzen, M.D., a board-certified anesthesiologist currently working as the Clinical Director of Advanced Airway Management and Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology at San Diego County, UCSD Medical Center, who opines that Defendants were negligent in their provision of medical care to Plaintiff and fell below the standard of care. (Pl.’s UMF No. 20.) Dr. Meitzen notes that Dr. Liau and Dr. Hudson failed to investigate Plaintiff’s EEG changes indicating hypoxic brain injury, and the standard of care required immediate action to optimize brain perfusion, regardless of the initial cause of ischemia, and immediate transport to the CT scanner for brain imaging to further guide treatment. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 21-23.) Dr. Meitzen opines that Dr. Hudson’s decision to extubate Plaintiff in the operating room fell below the standard of care because there is no evidence that Plaintiff was awake and following commands prior to extubation; Dr. Hudson and Dr. Liau should have performed a timely neurological exam following Plaintiff’s extubation; Dr. Hudson should have reintubated Plaintiff, and failure to do so exacerbated Plaintiff’s injury; Dr. Hudson and Dr. Liau deviated from the standard of care in not promptly ordering an arterial blood gas during the initial signs of unconsciousness and hypoventilation; the Regents’ failure to ensure neuro ICU bed available caused severe injury to Plaintiff; and the complications Plaintiff suffered are directly related to Defendants’ negligence. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 24-29.)This evidence allows Plaintiff to create a triable issue of material fact as to the claims against Dr. Hudson, the lead anesthesiologist, and the Regents, as Plaintiff provides a competent expert opinion from a board-certified anesthesiologist that Dr. Hudson’s and the Regents’ negligence caused Plaintiff’s harm. However, as to the claims against Dr. Liau, there is no evidence that allows the Court to conclude that Plaintiff’s expert, an anesthesiologist, is qualified to render an opinion on the standard of care of a neurologist. “In order to testify as an expert in a medical malpractice case, a person must have enough knowledge, learning and skill with the relevant subject to speak with authority, and he or she must be familiar with the standard of care to which the defendant was held.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467.) Dr. Meitzen states no knowledge, learning, or skill with neurosurgery, such that her opinion as to Dr. Liau must be excluded from evidence, as she is unqualified to render an opinion as to the standard of care applicable to Dr. Liau, such that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently create a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claims against Dr. Liau.Thus, there remains a triable issue as to whether the Regents and Dr. Hudson caused Plaintiff’s harm, but Defendants have established there is no triable issue as to whether Dr. Liau caused Plaintiff’s harm, and Plaintiff has failed to provide competent evidence to establish that Dr. Liau caused Plaintiff’s harm. Accordingly, Defendants The Regents of the University of California, Andrew Hudson, M.D., Linda Liau, M.D., and Albert Lai, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Linda Liau, M.D., DENIED as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Defendants The Regents of the University of California and Andrew Hudson, M.D., and DENIED without prejudice as to Plaintiff Richard Zajac’s claims against Defendant Albert Lai, M.D.Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendants object to the entirety of the declaration of Sara Meitzen, M.D., and certain statements made therein, as they relate to Linda Liau, M.D. Defendants’ objections are SUSTAINED in their entirety.