 Case Number:  23STCV13708    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  14 Folke, et al. v. Deutsche Bank et al.Case Background
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
are wrongfully attempting to foreclose on their home.

            On June 14,
2023 Plaintiffs filed their verified Complaint for (1) Declaratory Relief, (2) Breach
of the Implied Covenant, (3) Fraud, (4) Abuse of Process, (5) Quiet Title, (6)
Negligence, (7) Unfair Competition, and (8) Breach of Contract against
Defendants Deutsche Bank National Trust Company (“Deutsche Bank”), Carrington
Mortgage Services, LLC (“Carrington”), and DOES 1-50. 
 
On July 24, 2023, Defendants Deutsche
Bank and Carrington filed their joint Answer.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for February 18, 2025.
 
Instant Motion
            
Defendants
Deutsche Bank and Carrington now move this court for judgment on the pleadings,
on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action against it.
 
Decision
 
            Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is
GRANTED.
 
            The motion is GRANTED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            The complaint in this case is not entirely in
comprehensible form. Plaintiffs attempt to plead causes of action for
“Equitable/Declaratory Relief with a TRO/Preliminary Injunction” and “Abuse of
Process/Intentional Misrepresentation” and “Negligence/Negligent
Misrepresentation” and “Breach of Contract/Promissory Estoppel/Promissory
Fraud.” These are either not causes of action, or they seek to improperly
combine separate legal theories. 
 
The
application for a TRO and Preliminary Injunction (which are remedies, not
causes of action) was rejected by Judge Curtis A. Kin, sitting in Department 82
of this courthouse. Abuse of Process and Intentional Misrepresentation are
completely separate torts with separate elements. While Negligence and
Negligent Misrepresentation are more closely related, they remain separate
claims. Breach of Contract, Promissory Estoppel, and Promissory Fraud are all
completely different theories which cannot be rolled into one. Plaintiffs need
to plead each of these theories separately, and identify clearly which facts
support which theories.
 
Aside
from the issues of organization, the argument that Plaintiff Nicholas D. Folke
lacks standing appears well-taken. Nothing in the complaint appears to identify
him as the real party in interest to any of these claims. He is does not seem
to be party to any contract, in a position to “rely” on any fraud, or owed any
duty by the lenders.
 
            These reasons are sufficient to support the court’s
ruling. The court understands that Defendants raise several other arguments and
its silence should not be read as approval or disapproval. The court simply
elects to stop here because it views a comprehensible complaint and
identification of the proper parties as a pre-requisite to substantive
analysis.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because the complaint is not clearly pled, and does not
explain how Plaintiff Nicholas D. Folke has standing to raise the claims
identified, the motion is GRANTED, with 20 days leave to amend.