  Case Number:  23STCV13447    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  14 Lopez v. Ford Motor CompanyCase Background
 
Lemon law case involving
Plaintiff’s 2020 Ford Escape. 
 
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability and (2) Breach
of Express Warranty against Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and DOES 1-20.
 
On July 20, 2023, Defendant Ford
filed its Answer.
 
Jury Trial is currently set for
March 17, 2025.
 
(1)       Special
Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff
now moves this court for an order compelling Defendant Ford to serve further
responses to their Special Interrogatory Nos. 40 and 42-45.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. Defendant Ford is to serve verified further responses within 30
days.
 
Discussion
 
The questions at issue read as follows:
 
“[40] Identify the individual(s)
whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that YOU are properly
determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced pursuant to the
Song Beverly Warranty Act.
 
[42] Explain with particularity all
aspects of YOUR investigation into whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified or was
eligible for repurchase or replacement pursuant to the Song-Beverly Warranty
Act.
 
[43] IDENTIFY all PERSON(S)
involved in YOUR investigation by full name, address, and telephone number,
including any individuals with whom YOU communicated regarding the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
 
[44] Identify all DOCUMENTS
consulted, reviewed and/or obtained in YOUR investigation.
 
[45] IDENTIFY all PERSON(S)
responsible for YOUR decision to not repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE
by full name, address, and telephone number.” (See Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement).[1]
 
To No. 40, Defendant Ford objected on the grounds that there
was no time period specified. Defendant Ford then provided the following
boilerplate objection, which it repeated for Nos. 42-45:
 
“Plaintiff did not request a
repurchase or replacement of the subject vehicle before filing this lawsuit.
Further, this is a lemon law case under Cal. Civil Code § 1790 et seq., and the
subject matter of this case revolves exclusively around the subject vehicle. In
addition, Ford objects to this Interrogatory because it is broad enough to
seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or the work
product doctrine, as the Interrogatory could encompass information that
reflects the legal advice, mental impressions, and legal strategies prepared
for anticipated or pending litigation by Ford's attorneys, Ford's Office of the
General Counsel, or those working under their direction and supervision.” (See
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement).
 
This is not an answer to Plaintiff’s question. But it does
clearly suggest an answer. And it hard to see how experienced counsel on both
sides of this dispute were unable to work towards that answer.
 
            Question
No. 40 needs no temporal limitation because of the way it is phrased. It asks
Defendant Ford to identify the person whose responsibility “is” to supervise
certain processes. Use of the verb in the present tense limits the time period
to the present – the moment the question is asked. Defendant Ford could respond
simply to this question in at least three straightforward ways: (1) answer that
there is no such person, (2) answer with the formal job title of the person but
indicate that the person who currently holds that job is not the person who
held it prior to filing the complaint, or (3) identify the person who currently
holds that job.
 
            The broader
issue addressed by all these questions is Defendant Ford’s statutory obligation
to repurchase a car that it cannot repair. Civil Code § 1793.2(c).
Defendant Ford (as manufacturers frequently do) takes the position that this
obligation must be triggered by a request from the consumer. Plaintiff (as
consumers frequently do) takes the position that the obligation is affirmative
and no such triggering event is required.
 
            Defendant
Ford’s concern is that as phrased, the questions could be interpreted as an
inquiry into why Defendant Ford has chosen to contest this lawsuit. The concern
is a valid one. But there is a way to answer the questions without waiving that
issue. Rather than evade the question by saying that Plaintiff never asked for
a repurchase, Ford could simply say that no such investigation was undertaken
except in preparation for this litigation, and that any such investigation is
protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges.
 
            Such an
answer would leave the parties free to litigate their positions about Ford’s
legal obligations. And it would leave Plaintiff free to litigate (if she
wished) the need for a privilege log and the application of the privilege to
this case. 
 
Conclusion
 
            These
questions are not difficult to read or answer. Defendant Ford can give more
meaningful answers without waiving any valid privilege objections they may
have. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. Defendant Ford is to serve verified
further responses within 30 days.
 
(2)       RFPs
 
            Plaintiff
now moves this court for an order compelling Defendant Ford to serve further
responses to their Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1, 3, 5, 9, 14, 16, 23,
30, and 89-91.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED in part. Defendant Ford is to serve verified further
responses to RFP Nos. 1, 3, 5, 16, 23, 30, and 89-91 within 30 days. The motion
is DENIED as to RFP Nos. 9 and 14.
 
Discussion
 
             RFP Nos. 1, 3, and 5 ask for repair orders and
warranty documents that apply to the Plaintiff’s car. Defendant Ford’s
responses contain two primary things – (1) a statement that the requests are
overbroad and seek irrelevant information, and (2) the statement that Plaintiff
should seek this information from the dealerships directly. Neither is a
sufficient objection. Repair orders and warranty documents are plainly relevant
in a lemon law case. And the dealerships are representatives of Defendant Ford,
which Defendant Ford is required to maintain under Civil Code § 1793.2(a).
Unless there is some reason Defendant Ford cannot obtain these records from its
dealerships, it must do so.
 
            RFP Nos. 9
and 14 are facially overbroad. RFP No. 9 asks for all recall documents which
pertain to Plaintiff’s vehicle. But not all recalls will necessarily be
relevant to the defect at issue in this case. Plaintiff must re-frame this
request and limit it to recalls which relate to the defects alleged in this
case. RFP No. 14 asks for all documents evidencing any communication relating
to Plaintiff’s vehicle. That request is so broad as to be virtually
meaningless.
 
            RFP Nos.
16, 23, 30, and 89-91 seek relevant information but, if read in a certain way,
would include Defendant Ford’s legal files for this case. This issue was
discussed above. The court’s guidance above applies here. Defendant Ford can
identify and produce the items that were not prepared in anticipation of this
litigation, and can withhold documents that were. Then the parties can discuss
their positions on the privilege with a clearer idea of what they’re talking
about.


