 Case Number:  24SMCV00048    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00048
  




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Howard Altman as Trustee of The Big Norm Trust 




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Marcus Rosner and Jill Rosner 



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between two neighboring property
owners. Marcus and Jill Rosner (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege Howard
Altman (“Defendant”) failed to maintain and/or altered his property in a manner
that caused excess surface water to flood the Plaintiffs’ property, causing
damages. 
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint alleging four causes
of action:   (1) negligence; (2) nuisance; (3) trespass;
and (4) preliminary and permanent injunction. Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in
conjunction with the third and fourth causes of action. 
 
On May 13, 2024, Defendants moved to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for
punitive damages.  
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion
to strike. 
 
On June 10, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
1.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)     
 
A motion to strike is only based upon grounds which
“appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  And when a motion to strike is based upon a
judicially noticeable matter, the matter must be specified in the notice of the
motion or supporting points and authorities, except as otherwise permitted by
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437,
subd. (b).)  Further, courts have interpreted
Section 437 to mean a review of a motion to strike “disregards facts extrinsic
to the pleadings . . . .”  (CPF Agency
Corp. v. R&S Towing Service (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1032 [Defendant’s
motion to strike denied because it alleged facts extrinsic to the pleading it
challenged].)  
 
2.    
PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages from
the complaint. Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to allege substantive
facts supporting Defendant's malice, oppression, or fraud. Plaintiffs argue they
established Defendant’s malice and oppression. 
 
Plaintiffs contend in their opposition that Defendant’s “home and
pool are still precariously overhanging Plaintiffs’ backyard as this dangerous
condition has still not been repaired” (Plaintiffs’ Opposition p. 2), a
condition Plaintiffs also allege has existed for 15 months.  But Plaintiffs’ complaint makes no reference to
such facts.  As such, the Court
disregards those facts which are extrinsic to Plaintiffs’ complaint.   
 
Next, Plaintiffs cite the following paragraphs from
their complaint to support their contention that they established Defendant’s
malice and/or oppression.  
 
23. Plaintiffs are at risk for physical and
emotional injuries from continuing emotional trauma and mental and physical
distress and have suffered mental and physical injury as a result of
Defendants’ actions and inactions and Plaintiffs fear for their safety and the
safety of their home as a result of Defendants’ actions and inactions. 
 
24. Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive
damages for the actions of Defendants, who are guilty of oppression and malice
in these actions.
 
26. Defendants are wrongfully interfering with
Plaintiffs’ use of their quiet use and enjoyment of their property at 17
Latimer. Defendants have made no attempts to property (sic) maintain and/repair
their respective irrigation/drainage systems and/or remove the resulting dirt,
mud, silt, vegetation and other debris, including structures, from their
respective properties and/or on the Plaintiffs’ Property on 17 Latimer
rendering certain portions of the land and improvements unusable and unsafe
causing extreme danger and fear and fright to Plaintiffs and their property. 
 
29. Defendants’ acts, knowing of the rainy
season and the prior major slope failure, continue to cause Plaintiffs
emotional and physical distress, as well as damaged the Plaintiffs’ property.
Plaintiffs have been and will continue to be deprived of their peace of mind
and security in their home and property. 
 
31. Defendants have oppressively or
fraudulently or maliciously interfered with the quiet use and enjoyment of
their property at 17 Latimer for the purpose of injuring Plaintiffs and with
willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights. Plaintiffs are therefore
entitled to exemplary damages pursuant to Civ. Code, § 3294 in the sum  according to proof at time of trial. 
 
32. Plaintiffs request the court issue a
permanent injunction restraining and enjoining Defendants from interfering with
Plaintiffs’ access to and other use of their property at 17 Latimer and during
the pendency of this action, a preliminary injunction issue to enjoin and
restrain Defendants from the acts and inactions set forth above that requires
the Defendants to refrain from (1) failing to repair the hillside and clear the
vegetation; and (2) to employ alternative diversion methods of rainwater run-off
from their respective properties.
 
Yet, Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory and lack the factual specificity
required in maintaining a claim for punitive damages.  In particular, Plaintiffs do not allege that
Defendant’s conduct is or was intended by Defendant to cause
injury to Plaintiffs, or Defendant’s conduct is or was carried on by Defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights or safety.
 
For example, Plaintiffs fail to allege when and how Defendant
has “made no attempts to property (sic) maintain and/repair their respective
irrigation/drainage systems and/or remove the resulting dirt, mud, silt,
vegetation and other debris, including structures, from their respective
properties,” assuming Defendant is even aware that such conditions exist or
need remediation.  (See Complaint ¶
26).  Also Plaintiffs fail to allege when
and how Defendant knows about “the
rainy season and the prior major slope failure” which continues to cause
Plaintiffs emotional and physical distress, as well as damaged the Plaintiffs’
property.  (See Complaint ¶
29.)  
 
 In
short, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts specific enough to establish any of the
three preconditions (malice, oppression, or fraud) required under Civil
Code section 3294.  Therefore, Plaintiffs
have failed to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike
punitive damages, without leave to amend, and orders Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive
damages stricken from the Complaint.[1]

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 17, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 
 


