 Case Number:  23SMCV06064    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       June 17, 2024
CASE NUMBER        23SMCV06064
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside Defaults
MOVING PARTIES   Defendants
Aleksandar Sasha Poparic; Immobilium, Inc.; Cali Miners, Inc.; and Helvetia
Holdings Group, LLC
OPPOSING PARTIES            Plaintiffs
Nektarios Zafeiris and Emily Aspiotis
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs
Nektarios Zafeiris and Emily Aspiotis (“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against
Defendants Aleksandar Sasha Poparic (“Poparic”); Immobilium, Inc.
(“Immobilium”); Cali Miners, Inc. (“Cali”); and Helvetia Holdings Group, LLC (“Helvetia”)
(together, “Defendants.”)  
 
The proofs of service indicate Poparic
was personally served with the summons and complaint on January 8, 2024; Immobilium
was personally served on January 17 and Helvetia was personally served on
January 19, via Poparic, their agent for service of process; and Cali was
served by substitute service on January 8, by leaving the papers with the
manager of CMRA Mail & More and mailing a copy thereafter.
 
Default was requested and entered
against all Defendants on March 4, 2024. 
On April 19, 2024, Defendants moved ex parte to set aside their
defaults, which Plaintiffs opposed on procedural grounds.  Defendants also seek $2,700 in attorneys’
fees incurred in bringing the instant motion following Plaintiff’s refusal to
stipulate to set aside the defaults.  At
the April 22 ex parte hearing, the Court found no affirmative showing of
irreparable harm or immediate danger to justify ex parte relief, and continued
the hearing to June 17, with opposition and reply briefing due in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 1005.
 
Plaintiffs have since filed a
substantive opposition to Defendant’s motion and Defendants have replied.[1] 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
            Code of Civil procedure section 473
“includes a discretionary provision, which applies permissively, and a
mandatory provision, which applies as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25 (hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473 is a remedial statute to be
“applied liberally” in favor of relief if the opposing party will not suffer
prejudice.  Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.  Unless inexcusable neglect is clear, the
policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.” 
(Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24 [cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
1.     DISCRETIONARY RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
2.     MANDATORY RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO SET ASIDE
 
Defendants contend that when Poparic, who is the CEO of Immobilium and
Cali and is a managing member of Helvetica (Poparic Decl. ¶ 1), received the January
30, 2024 Notice of Case Management Conference giving a CMC date of May 1, 2024,
he mistakenly believed that May 1, 2024 was Defendants’ deadline to file a
response to the Complaint. (Poparic Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
Plaintiffs counter that Poparic’s purported mistake was not
reasonable, because he was personally handed the summons and complaint at least
three times in January, so that does not explain why he waited until March,
when he was served with a copy of the Notice of Case Management Conference to
form an opinion about the responsive pleading date, especially where, as here,
Poparic has been involved in at least ten other civil litigation matters in Los
Angeles since 2007.  Plaintiffs also
argue that as CEO, he had an obligation to disclose the lawsuit to Cali’s board
of directors, which includes its corporate counsel.  Moreover, Plaintiffs contend they informed
Poparic by letter on September 17, 2023 about the prospect of this litigation,
followed up by emails and telephone calls until October 25, 2023, when Poparic
stopped responding, and a second letter on December 5, 2023, alerting Poparic
of his duty to refrain from destroying evidence.
 
The Court does not know why Plaintiffs indicate Poparic was served
with the Notice of Case Management Conference statement in March, as the proof
of service indicates it was served by mail on January 26, 2024.  Thus, Poparic personally received 3 copies of
a summons and complaint on different days throughout January (and possibly a
fourth copy via mail on behalf of Cali), the last of which was served on
January 19.  Approximately a week later,
Poparic then received the notice of case management conference, which indicates
twice on the caption page, as well as in the body of the notice, that a hearing
has been scheduled for May 1, 2024.
 
It is therefore understandable how Poparic, who is not himself an
attorney, may have become confused about his responsive pleading obligations,
in light of the repeated service of process and other documents upon him, and
the clear May 1, 2024 date that stood out among the paperwork.  This is true even though Poparic may have
known that this litigation was forthcoming and that Poparic has been previously
involved in other litigations.  Finally,
Plaintiffs offer only speculation that Poparic timely disclosed the litigation
to in-house counsel for Cali.
                                                                                                                 
            Therefore, Defendants have
demonstrated that the entry of default against them was a result of Poparic’s
reasonable mistake. 
 
2.     DEFENDANTS’
REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY FEES
 
Defendants seek recovery of their reasonable legal fees and costs
incurred in bringing this motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) which provides in relevant part:
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b), emphasis added.)
 
Here, the authority cited by Defendants in support of their request is
inapplicable.  That provision would have
afforded Plaintiffs as the opposing parties to seek reasonable legal fees and
costs if the defaults were set aside because of counsel for
Defendants’ “affidavit of fault.”  But
that scenario is not present; in particular, Brian P. Ballo, counsel for
Defendants, does not advance an “attorney affidavit of fault.”  In fact, Ballo does not attest to any fault
on his part which led to the defaults being entered.  (See Declaration of Brian P. Ballo, ¶¶ 1-4.)  And because Defendants advance no other
authority, the Court denies the Defendants’ request for attorneys’ fees.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court grants
in part and denies in part Defendants’ motion to set aside the defaults.  The Court orders the defaults entered against
Defendants to be set aside, and denies Defendants’ request for attorneys’
fees.  
 
            Further, the Court orders Defendants
to file and serve Answer(s) to the Complaint on or before July 1, 2024, and
continues the Case Management Conference to August 21, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and
Further Case Management Conferences.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724)
and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule
3.725).  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
DATED: June 17, 2024                                                          ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


