 Case Number:  23STCV01341    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
CDMY Investment, LLC’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Defendant CDMY Investment, LLC (CDMY)
moves for judgment on the pleadings on the complaint by plaintiff U&G
Construction Group, Inc.
Requests for Judicial Notice
CDMY requests judicial notice of six exhibits.  (RJN, Gleason Decl. Exs. A-F.)  The first five are real property instruments
recorded by the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office.  (Id., Exs. A-E.)  These instruments and their legal effects are
subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c)
and (h).  (Yvanova v. New Century
Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, fn. 1; Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 194.)
The sixth exhibit is a copy of the Contractor’s License
Detail for license No. 1104933, U & G Construction Inc, from the website of
the California Department of Consumer Affairs, Contractors State License Board.  (RJN, Gleason Decl., Ex. F.)  This exhibit and its legal effects are also
subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c)
and (h). 
Legal Standard for Judgment on the Pleadings
“A
motion for judgment on the pleadings is equivalent to a demurrer … .  All material facts which were properly pleaded
are deemed true, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or
law.”  (Mack v. State Bar of
California (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 957, 961.)  “In addition to the facts pleaded, [a court]
may consider matters which may be judicially noticed, including a party’s
admissions or concessions that can not reasonably be controverted.”  (Ibid.)  Courts need
not accept the truth of allegations that are contradicted by exhibits attached
to the complaint (Brakke
v. Economic Concepts, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 761, 767) or by facts subject
to judicial notice (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474).
1st Cause of Action: Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien
            Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Facts subject to judicial notice establish
CDMY foreclosed on a senior lien it held on the property and thereby
extinguished plaintiff’s junior mechanic’s lien.  “[T]he general rule is that foreclosure of a
senior encumbrance terminates subordinate liens.”  (Miscione v. Barton Development Co.
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1326.)  “ ‘Title
conveyed by a trustee’s deed [i.e., in a foreclosure sale] relates back in time
to the date on which the deed of trust was executed.  The trustee’s deed therefore passes the title
held by the trustor as of that earlier time plus any after-acquired title,
rather than the title that the trustor held on the date of the foreclosure
sale.  Liens that attached to the
property after execution of the foreclosed deed of trust are therefore
eliminated or “sold out,” and the purchaser at the trustee sale takes title to
the property free of those junior liens.’ ” 
(Decon Group, Inc. v. Prudential Mortgage Capital Co., LLC (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 665, 670–671 (Decon Group), alterations omitted.)
The complaint alleges, “From approximately July 2022 to
October 2022, Plaintiff provided construction services and improvements at the”
subject property.  (Comp., ¶ 2.)  “Plaintiff has not been paid the agreed
compensation for the improvements, work and materials provided to improve the
Property.”  (¶ 14.)  Plaintiff further alleges, “On October 25,
2022, Plaintiff served notice of its Mechanic’s Lien with a proof of service
affidavit to Defendants Real Prosperity and LA Investment, the owners or
reputed owners of the property on that date.” 
(¶ 15.)  Plaintiff recorded the
lien the same day.  (¶ 16.)
Facts subject to judicial notice establish CDMY held a senior
lien.  On November 14, 2019, the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office recorded a deed of trust secured by the
property naming CDMY Investment, LLC as lender and beneficiary.  (RJN, Gleason Decl., Ex. B.)  This lien arose nearly three years before
plaintiff’s mechanic’s lien.  
On April 8, 2022, the Recorder’s Office recorded a notice of
default and election to sell under the deed of trust.  (RJN, Gleason Decl., Ex. C.)  On September 28, 2022, the Recorder’s Office
recorded a notice of trustee’s sale scheduled for October 27.  (Id., Ex. D.)  Finally, on December 13, 2022, the Recorder’s
Office recorded a trustee’s deed upon sale under which CDMY Investment, LLC
acquired title to the subject property. 
(Id., Ex. E.)  That
transfer of the property extinguished plaintiff’s junior lien.    
The facts in Decon Group are analogous.  There, the Court of Appeal held, “When
[defendant] foreclosed and purchased the Property at the foreclosure sale,” the
plaintiff’s mechanic’s “lien was eliminated, and [defendant] then owned the
Property free of [plaintiff’s] lien.”  (Decon
Group, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 672.) 
CDMY similarly foreclosed on its senior lien.  That extinguished plaintiff’s junior
lien.  Plaintiff cannot now foreclose on
it.
2nd Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “The requisite elements of quantum meruit are
(1) the plaintiff acted pursuant to ‘an explicit or implicit request for the
services’ by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a benefit on the
defendant.”  (Port Medical Wellness,
Inc. v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
153, 180.)
            The
complaint does not allege defendant CDMY Investment, LLC requested plaintiff’s
services.  It alleges the other two
defendants, “Real Prosperity Investment, LLC and LA Investment Advisory, LLC
(hereinafter ‘Owners’) were at all times relevant the owners or reputed owners
of the Property, and engaged Plaintiff for the work which is the subject of
this action and promised to pay for such work.” 
(Comp., ¶ 9.)  It further alleges,
“Defendant Owners requested that Plaintiff construct improvements and repairs
to the Property.  Plaintiff performed and
completed the improvements in reliance on the Owners’ promises to pay for such
work.”  (¶ 21.)
The complaint’s term “Owners” does not include CDMY.  The complaint alleges, “Defendant CDMY
Investment, LLC is a California limited liability company who claims rights to
the Property under a foreclosure.” 
(Comp., ¶ 10.)  The mechanic’s
lien itself also states, “Claimant
furnished the labor or services or equipment or materials, at the request of
Owners Real Prosperity Investment, LLC and LA Investment Advisory, LLC
(employer, person, or entity to whom labor, materials, services, or equipment
were furnished).”  (Comp., Ex. B, ¶ 3.)  The complaint therefore does not allege CDMY
requested plaintiff’s services.  Moreover,
the real property instruments subject to judicial notice show CDMY held a lien
but did not own the property until December 2022—after plaintiff finished
providing its services in October 2022.  (Comp., ¶ 2.) 
       
Business & Professions Code § 7031
            Plaintiff’s two causes
of action against CDMY also fail for an independent reason.  Under the Contractors State License Law, a
contractor may not maintain any action to recover compensation for the
“performance of any act or contract” unless the contractor was duly licensed
“at all times during the performance of that act or contract.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031(a).)  A contractor “is ineligible to recover any
compensation … if, at any time during performance of an agreement for
contractor services, he or she was not duly licensed.”  (MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser
Ornamental & Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 425.)
            The complaint alleges, “Plaintiff
U&G Construction Group, Inc. is and at all relevant times was a California
corporation and a licensed contractor.” 
(Comp., ¶ 1.)  Facts subject to
judicial notice show otherwise.  A copy
of the Contractor’s License Detail for license No. 1104933, for U & G
Construction Inc, retrieved from the website of the Contractors State License
Board, shows U & G Construction Inc’s license was issued on May 17,
2023.  (RJN, Gleason Decl., Ex. F.)  Plaintiff thus was not licensed as a contractor
until over six months after it completed its construction services.  It cannot maintain an action to recover
compensation for those services.
Disposition
            Defendant
CDMY Investment, LLC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted with 30 days’ leave to amend.