 Case Number:  21STCV19398    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 24, 2021, Plaintiff Abby Ademe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants John Yu (“Yu”), Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1-20 for
motor vehicle tort, general negligence, intentional tort, products liability,
premises liability and emotional distress. 
On
May 3, 2023, Uber filed an answer. 
On
June 20, 2023, the Court granted Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
On
August 8, 2023, Yu filed a demurrer to be heard on September 27, 2023. 
On
September 18, 2023, Yu filed a declaration by his counsel addressing the scope
of the stay the Court imposed when it granted Uber’s motion to compel
arbitration. 
On
September 27, 2023, the Court issued an order clarifying that the stay issued
on applies only to Plaintiff’s claims
against Uber. Plaintiff’s claims against Yu are not subject to the stay. The
Court continued the hearing on the demurrer to November 9, 2023 to give
Plaintiff an opportunity to file an opposition. 
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the demurrer. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Yu
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
his complaint Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On June
1, 2019, at South La Brea Avenue and West 23rd Street in Los Angeles, CA 90016,
“the defendant(s) and each of them did so carelessly and negligently, and
recklessly owned , operated, and entrusted, leased, maintained, and or drove
their vehicles in such a way as to cause injuries to the plaintiff. Plaintiff
further alleges that said negligent acts of the defendant(s) and each of them
is an actual, direct, legal, and proximate cause of the physical, mental and
economic injuries suffered by the plaintiff. As a direct and proximate result
of these injuries, plaintiff has incurred losses of income, losses of earning
capacity, medical expenses, emotional distress and severe pain and suffering.”  Defendants’ acts were negligent and were the legal
(proximate) cause of injuries and damages to Plaintiff. 
Yu,
an employee of Uber, operated the vehicle in the course of his employment. 
The form
complaint asserts claims for motor vehicle, general negligence, intentional
tort, products liability, premises liability, and “emotional distress.” 
B.   The demurrer 
1.    Motor vehicle tort and general negligence claims 
Yu
argues that the motor vehicle and general negligence claims are uncertain and
fail to state facts sufficient to support a claim against him. 
“The
elements of a negligence claim [are] . . . a legal duty of care, breach of that
duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.” 
(Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“A
demurrer for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
provides a quick way of getting the case decided on assumed facts.  I.e., assuming the facts alleged in the
complaint are true, do they state any valid cause of action?  If they do, the general demurrer must be
overruled.  If they do not, the demurrer
should be sustained; and, if the complaint cannot be amended to state a cause
of action, the action should be dismissed. 
[¶]  But only ultimate facts need
be alleged: ‘To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.’ ” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:40, p. 7(l)-21, emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff’s
complaint pleads the elements of a negligence claim and therefore states a cause of action
for motor vehicle tort and negligence. 
The lack of evidentiary facts does not render these claims uncertain.  The Court overrules the demurrer to these
claims. 
2.    Claims for intentional tort, products liability, and premises
liability 
The
complaint alleges no facts that support Plaintiff's claims for intentional tort,
products liability, or premises liability. 
The Court sustains the demurrer to these claims. 
3.    Claim for emotional distress 
“Emotional
distress” is an element of potential damages, not a cause of action.  The Court sustains the demurrer to this
claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendant John Yu to Plaintiff Abby Ademe’s claims
for motor vehicle tort and negligence. 
The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant John Yu to Plaintiff Abby Ademe’s
claims for intentional tort, products liability, premises liability, and
emotional distress with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.