 Case Number:  22STCV30920    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On September
21, 2022, Plaintiff Pedro Reyes Franco (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Perry Motors (“Perry Motors”), Jose Alberto
Martinez (“Martinez”), and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
October 7, 2022, Perry Motors filed an answer.  On December 7, 2022, Martinez filed an
answer. 
On September
26, 2023, Martinez filed a motion for leave to file an amended answer to be
heard on November 9, 2023.  On October 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
November 2, 2023, Martinez filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 20, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Martinez
requests leave to file and serve an amended answer. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’ ”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On
August 5, 2022, on the CA-14 Freeway near Placerita Canyon Road in Santa
Clarita, California, Defendants’ vehicle struck Plaintiff, who was riding a
motorcycle.  Defendants’ negligence in
operating, managing, and driving their vehicle caused Plaintiff to suffer serious
personal injuries and property damage. 
B.   Martinez’s answer 
Martinez’s
December 7, 2022 answer denies Plaintiff’s allegations and asserts fourteen affirmative
defenses. 
C.   Martinez’s motion for leave to file an amended answer 
Martinez
seeks leave to amend his answer to include the sudden emergency doctrine as an
affirmative defense.  “Under the ‘sudden
emergency’ or ‘imminent peril’ doctrine, ‘a person who, without negligence on
his part, is suddenly and unexpectedly confronted with peril, arising from
either the actual presence, or the appearance, of imminent danger to himself or
to others, is not expected [or] required to use the same judgment and prudence
that is required of him in the exercise of ordinary care in calmer and more
deliberate moments.’ ” (Abdulkadhim v. Wu (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 298, 301-302,
quoting Leo v. Dunham (1953) 41 Cal.2d 712, 714.)  "An emergency
or peril under the sudden emergency or imminent peril doctrine is a set of
facts presented to the person alleged to have been negligent. It is that
actor's behavior that the doctrine excuses.” 
(Id. at p. 302, original emphasis.) 
According
to Martinez, the affirmative defense is based on deposition testimony given on
August 9, 2023 by investigating officer Eliud Tapia.  Officer Tapia, reading from his report, testified
as follows: 
“Both parties [Martinez and Plaintiff] were driving
their respective vehicles on northbound 14, south of Placerita Canyon Road.  [Martinez] was driving Vehicle 1 in the Number
1 lane at approximately 70 miles per hour, ahead of [Plaintiff]. [Plaintiff]
was riding Vehicle 2 between the HOV lane and Number 1 lane at an unknown
speed. Traffic ahead of [Martinez] came to a stop. [Martinez] made a brake
application to Vehicle 1 and turned Vehicle 1 to the left to change lanes into the carpool lane or HOV
lane. Due to [Martinez’s] unsafe lane change and an associated factor caused by
his unsafe speed, [Martinez’s vehicle] crossed a set of double yellow lines
with Vehicle 1 in the direct path of [Plaintiff’s vehicle]. [Martinez’s] unsafe
lane change did not allow [Plaintiff] to make an evasive movement or braking
application to prevent colliding into the rear of [Martinez’s vehicle]. As a
result, [Plaintiff’s vehicle] rear-ended the back of [Martinez’s vehicle].
After the crash, [Martinez] drove Vehicle 1 to the median and [Plaintiff]
walked to the median and an unknown party moved Vehicle 2 to the median prior
to CHP arrival.” 
Martinez
argues that the stopping of traffic in front of his vehicle created a sudden
emergency which excused his allegedly negligent conduct. 
D.   Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion 
Plaintiff
contends that Martinez has failed to show the stopped traffic amounted to a
sudden emergency.  Plaintiff also argues
that Mendoza cannot claim the protection of the sudden emergency doctrine
because his own negligence triggered the alleged emergency.  In addition, Plaintiff argues that Mendoza’s
motion is untimely because he has known about the facts giving rise to a sudden
emergency affirmative defense since February 2, 2023, when his counsel received
the traffic collision report which Officer Tapia read from at his deposition.  Finally, Plaintiff argues that
allowing Mendoza to amend his answer would prejudice Plaintiff by increasing the
amount of discovery he must conduct and requiring Plaintiff to file a demurrer
and possibly a summary judgment motion to challenge the sudden emergency
affirmative defense. 
E.   Analysis 
“Ordinarily, the judge will
not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in deciding whether
to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is granted, the opposing
party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.”
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189 to 6-190.)  Here, Plaintiff's contention that the proposed affirmative defense is meritless because no sudden emergency existed and because Martinez’s own negligence triggered the alleged emergency does not require denial of leave to amend the answer. 
Even
if, as Plaintiff argues, Martinez unreasonably delayed moving to amend, “it is
an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not
misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery,
etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:656, p. 6-193.)  Plaintiff has not
asserted or shown that allowing the amendment will delay the trial.   
Having
considered the parties’ arguments, the Court exercises its discretion to grant
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Jose Alberto Martinez’s motion for leave to file an amended
answer.  Defendant Jose Alberto Martinez is
ordered to file and serve the amended answer within 10 days of the hearing on
the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.