  Case Number:  19STCV28449    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 9, 2019, Plaintiff Deon Goggins (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants 4755 Alla LP (“Alla”), Marpac Company (“Marpac”), MF One, LP (“MF”),
and Does 1-20 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 23, 2019, Alla, Marpac, and MF filed an answer. 
On
September 19, 2021, Alla, Marpac and MF filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants RRAM Services, Vortex Industries, Inc. (“Vortex”), and
Roes 1 through 50 for comparative negligence, express contractual indemnity,
equitable indemnity, comparative equitable indemnity, contribution, apportionment
of fault and declaratory relief. On August 6, 2021, Alla, Marpac and MF filed an
amended cross-complaint. On October 22, 2021, RRAM Services filed an answer. On
June 29, 2022, Vortex filed an answer. 
On
April 22, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants RRAM
Services (Doe 1) and Vortex (Doe 2).  On
April 26, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Shrader
& Martinez Construction USA, LLC (Doe 3). 
On
June 2, 2022, Defendant Shrader & Martinez Construction USA, LLC
(erroneously sued as RRAM Services) (“Shrader”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint.  
On
June 29, 2022, Vortex filed (1) an answer to the complaint, (2) an answer to
the cross-complaint, and (3) a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Alla,
Marpac, MF, and Zoes 1-20 for “Equitable, Total and/or Implied Indemnity” and contribution. 
On
September 15, 2022, the Court dismissed the complaint against Vortex and RRAM Services without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
October 10, 2022, the Court dismissed Vortex without prejudice from the cross-complaint
filed by Alla, Marpac, and MF at their request. 
The Court also dismissed Vortex’s cross-complaint without prejudice at
Vortex’s request. 
On
February 14, 2023, Shrader filed an amended answer to the cross-complaint of
Alla, Marpac, and MF. 
On
February 17, 2023, Shrader filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication against Cross-Complainants Alla, Marpac, and
MF (“Cross-Complainants”) to be heard on November 9, 2023. On October 26, 2023,
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition. On November 3, 2023, Shrader filed a
reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Shrader
requests that the Court grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
on the cross-complaint’s first cause of action for express indemnity. 
Cross-Complainants
request that the Court deny the motion. 
SHRADER’S EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Sustained: 1-4 
Overruled: 5, 6 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The
defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of
the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” 
(Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply
point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at
p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.” 
(Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment]; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication “shall proceed in
all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].) The party opposing
the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that
those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends are
disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the
evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  
DISCUSSION 
          A.   Undisputed
facts 
1.    The Master Service Agreement and lease       
On
October 23, 2016, Tesla, Inc. dba Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Tesla”) entered into a
Master Services Agreement (Construction) with RRAM Services which set forth the terms
and conditions under which RRAM Services was to perform its services for
Tesla.  (UMF 8 & Exh. F.)  The
Master Services Agreement contains an indemnification provision which states in
part:
“Indemnification by Contractor. To the fullest extent
provided by Law, Contractor will indemnify, defend and hold harmless Tesla, its
Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees, agents and representatives (collectively, “Tesla Indemnitees”),
from any and all losses arising from, in connection with, or based on
allegation of any of the following: …(e) Any Claim for death or bodily injury,
or the damage, loss or destruction of real or tangible personal property of
third parties (including employees of Tesla and Contractor and their respective
Subcontractors) caused by the tortious conduct of Contractor, any Contractor
Personnel, or any of Contractor’s third-party suppliers … In no event shall
Contractor be obligated to indemnify a Tesla Indemnitee for Losses which arise
out of or result from the sole negligence, or willful misconduct or breach of
contract of such Tesla Indemnitee or its agents, servants or independent contractors
who are directly responsible to such Tesla Indemnitee, excluding Contractor
herein.”  (UMF 9.) 
On
October 19, 2017, MF, Marpac, and Tesla entered into a Lease Agreement for a
10-year term with options to extend in which MF and Marpac leased the property at 4755 Alla Rd, Los Angeles, California 90041 (“Subject Premises”) to Tesla.  (UMF 10.)  On August 21, 2018, 4755 Alla GP, LLP entered
into a Limited Partnership Agreement with MF and Marpac to create Alla, in
which 4755 Alla GP, LLP is the general partner and MF and Marpac are limited
partners.  (UMF 11.)  At all pertinent
times, Alla, Marpac, and/or MF were the landlords and owners of the Subject
Premises.  (UMF 12.) 
2.    The complaint and cross-complaint 
On
August 19, 2019, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Alla, Marpac, and MF for
negligence and premises liability.  (UMF
1.)  Plaintiff alleges that on August 15, 2018,
Plaintiff was employed at Tesla, located at the Subject Premises.  Plaintiff was the last person to leave
the Subject Premises and was in charge of closing the gate. When Plaintiff attempted
to close the gate, the gate fell off its track and towards Plaintiff, injuring
him.  (UMF 2.) 
On
October 28, 2020, Cross-Complainants filed a cross-complaint against RRAM,
Vortex, and Roes 1 through 50 for comparative negligence, express contractual
indemnity, equitable indemnity, comparative equitable indemnity, contribution,
apportionment of fault and declaratory relief. 
(UMF 3.)  On August 6, 2021, Cross-Complainants
filed an amended cross-complaint.  (UMF
4.) 
The amended
cross-complaint’s claim for express indemnity alleges that RRAM entered into a
written contract with Plaintiff’s employer, Tesla, for the benefit of
Cross-Complainants to perform repair and maintenance on the property where Plaintiff
allegedly was injured.  (UMF 5.) 
DISCUSSION 
Citing
the Master Service Agreement, Shrader argues that Cross-Complainants are not
entitled to indemnification under the indemnification clause because they are
not Tesla’s affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, or representatives
and the terms of the Master Service Agreement do not reflect an intent to
provide indemnity to Cross-Complainants as third-party beneficiaries.  Shrader has carried its initial burden on
summary adjudication, shifting the burden to Cross-Complainants. 
In
their opposition, Cross-Complainants make no attempt to argue that they were officers,
directors, employees, agents, or representatives of Tesla for purposes of the indemnification
provision in the Master Service Agreement. 
They argue the Master Service Agreement contemplated their interest as
landlords but cite no authority authorizing the Court to override the language
of the indemnity provision for that reason. 
Likewise,
Cross-Complainants cite no authority supporting their implicit argument that a
court may conclude that contracting parties intended a third party to benefit
from the contract despite contractual language excluding the third party from
the contact’s benefits.  
Cross-Complainants
also rely on the Master Service Agreement’s third party beneficiary clause,
which provides: “14.10 Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is entered
into solely between Tesla and Contractor and, except for the Parties’
indemnification obligations under Section 11 (Indemnification) and the
Service Recipients, will not be deemed to create any rights in any third
parties or to create any obligations of either Tesla or Contractor to any third
parties.”  (Emphasis added.)  Cross-Complainants argue this
provision demonstrates that the Master Service Agreement contemplates third-party
beneficiaries of the indemnification provision.  The better reading is that, with respect to indemnification, the provision refers the reader back
to the indemnification clause, which limits indemnification to “Tesla, its
Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and
representatives . . . .” 
Finally,
Cross-Complainants assert that a triable issue of fact exists regarding whether
Marpac is an “affiliate” of Tesla.  They
argue the Master Services Agreement does not define “affiliate” and “a reasonable jury could conclude that [Cross-Complainants]
were intended to be ‘affiliates’ of Tesla under
the agreement, given the landlord-tenant relationship and the obligations of
the parties under the Lease Agreement.” 
(Opposition p. 14.) 
Cross-Complainants cite no legal authority to support this argument and
the Court finds it does not raise a triable issue of fact. 
Cross-Complainants
have failed to raise a triable issue of fact regarding their claim for express
indemnity.  The Court grants Shrader’s
motion for summary adjudication of this claim. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion for summary adjudication filed
by Defendant and Cross-Defendant Shrader & Martinez Construction USA, LLC
(erroneously sued as RRAM Services) and summarily adjudicates the claim for
express indemnity in the amended cross-complaint filed by Cross-Complainants 4755
Alla LP, Marpac Company, and MF One, LP. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling with the Court within five days.