 Case Number:  23STCV12469    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ORLANDO GARCIA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
I BAHOO, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12469
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 17, 2024



 
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff Orlando
Garcia filed this action against Defendants I Bahoo LLC and AZT LLC.
On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Admissions
(Set One), on Defendant AZT.  On July 26,
2026, Defendant provided responses, which Plaintiff deemed insufficient.
On
September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions to compel further responses.
A
party may move to compel a further response to a discovery demand if the demanding
party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; the
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or
an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a) [interrogatories],
2031.310, subd. (a) [documents], 2033.290, subd. (a) [admissions].)
Defendant’s
responses contain only objections “on the grounds that Plaintiff lacks standing
to bring this lawsuit, thereby depriving this Court of subject matter jurisdiction.
Mr. Garcia is a serial litigant, and he has a well-documented history of filing
numerous ADA and Unruh Act lawsuits without the intent or capability of returning
to the sued establishments, which is a necessary component for standing under these
laws.”  Defendant contends that “Mr. Garcia
failed to appear for his deposition where Responding Party intended to ask him question
about his standing,” and “the discovery requests are improper and unduly burdensome
as they are predicated on a claim lacking subject matter jurisdiction.”
This
is not a proper objection.  Discovery responses
are not the place to challenge jurisdiction.
The
motions are GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered
to provide supplemental responses within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 