 Case Number:  22STCV31749    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JIA CHEN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DEYUAN DECORATION INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV31749
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTIONS TO STRIKE
  
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 17, 2024



 
On
February 6, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrers of Defendants Deyuan Decoration
Inc., Jiang Lin, and Ying Xiong and granted Plaintiff Jia Chen 30 days’ leave to
amend.
On
April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint (“TAC”).
On
April 17, 2024, each Defendant filed nearly identical motions to strike.
MOTIONS
TO STRIKE
A.        The Court Will Not Strike the TAC for
Being Untimely Filed.
Defendants
move to strike the entire TAC because it was not filed within the time specified
in the Court’s February 6, 2024 order.  (Motion
at pp. 9-10.)  It is undisputed that Plaintiff’s
April 3, 2024 TAC was filed more than 30 days after the Court’s February 6, 2024
order granting leave to amend.
A
defendant may move for dismissal when a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with
leave to amend and the plaintiff fails to amend the complaint within the allowed
time.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (f)(2).)
Defendants
argue that Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
603 (Leader) mandates dismissal.  (Motion
at pp. 9-10.)  According to Defendants, “Comparing
Leader with our case, there is not reason why our case should not be dismissed by
our court,” and If [L]eader deserves a dismissal, our case deserves more.”  (Ibid.)  The Court disagrees.
In
Leader, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint after the time allowed
by the court.  (Leader, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th
at p. 612.)  The plaintiffs’ failure to file
an amended complaint within the time allowed by the court subjected any subsequently
filed pleading to a motion to strike and dismissal.  (Id. at pp. 613-614.)  The Court of Appeal noted that the defendants
“recogniz[ed] that the court could allow the amended complaint to be filed,” so
they appropriately moved both to strike the pleading and to dismiss the action.  (Id. at p. 614.)  The court found no abuse of discretion when the
trial court exercised its informed discretion to determine whether to grant leave
to amend, whether to strike the belated pleading, and whether to dismiss.  (Ibid.)
Although
Leader is a favorable case for Defendants, it does not mandate dismissal
here.  Instead, dismissal is permissive.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (f) [“The court
may dismiss the complaint . . . .”])  The
Court could, in its discretion, strike the TAC, requiring Plaintiff to file a motion
for leave to amend the pleadings.  Then the
Court could, in its discretion, grant the motion to amend and allow the TAC to be
filed anyway.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)
Under
the circumstances of this case, the Court exercises its discretion to deny the motions
to strike and to permit the late filing of the TAC.  Defendants have shown no prejudice caused by the
TAC’s late filing.  When there is no prejudice
to the opposing party, “it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the
refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For
Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; see also Jaimez v. Daiohs
USA, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1308 [quoting Morgan].)
Denying
these motions to strike saves time and resources for both the Court and the parties.  It is also consistent with the general preference
for resolution of actions on the merits. 
(See Sierra Club v. San Joaquin Local Agency Formation Com. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 489, 509 [“Finally, all things being equal, we deem it preferable to
apply our decisions in such a manner as to preserve, rather than foreclose, a litigant’s
day in court on the merits of his or her action.”].)
B.        The Court Will Not Strike the Ninth Cause
of Action.
Defendants
also move to strike the ninth cause of action because the TAC “failed to address
the concern raised [sic] in our demurrer again, it repeatedly happened”.  (Motion at pp. 10-11, formatting omitted.)
This
abridged demurrer is improperly included in the motions to strike.  “Motions to strike and demurrers should be filed
as separate documents.”  (Weil & Brown,
Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2024 Update)
¶ 7:162.1.)
In
any event, the Court finds that the TAC alleges sufficient facts for fraudulent
inducement.  (TAC ¶¶ 111, 113.)
C.        Conclusion
The
motions to strike are DENIED.
Defendants
are ordered to file their Answers to the TAC within 10 days.
A WARNING ABOUT CIVILITY
Defendants’
motions contain numerous inflammatory and unwarranted statements about opposing
counsel:
·        
“[T]he plaintiff’s attorney didn’t even bother
to read demurrers and arguements [sic] filed and sent by Defendants, not to mention
doing any serious legal research for them and make the modification accordingly.”  (Motion at p. 5.)
·        
“When confronted by defendants, his excuse
[for not timely filing] is more ridiculous . . . .”  (Motion at p. 9.)
·        
“I just can not reasonably believe the complaint
could be ever taken care of well.”  (Motion
at p. 10.)
·        
“Plaintiff’s attorney never takes this case
seriously . . . .”  (Motion at p. 11.)
·        
“Plaintiff’s attorney never treat[s] this case
seriously and his attitude deserves punishment.”  (Motion at p. 11.)
·        
“The Plaintiff’s attorney is ridiculous and
never take[s] the case seriously that Defendants don’t believe Plaintiff will duly
proceed with the case.”  (Motion at p. 12.)
None
of defense counsel’s commentary advanced their arguments or were relevant to any
issues.  Demeaning comments to or about opposing
counsel are contrary to counsel’s ethical obligations of civility,
professional integrity, candor, and cooperation.  (In re Marriage of Davenport (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 1507, 1536-1537.)  This Court’s
Local Rules specifically forbid such remarks: 
“Neither written submissions nor oral presentations should disparage the
intelligence, ethics, morals, integrity or personal behavior of one’s adversaries,
unless such things are directly and necessarily in issue.”  (LASC Local Rules, Appendix 3.A, § (c)(2).)
“‘[I]t
is vital to the integrity of our adversary legal process that attorneys strive to
maintain the highest standards of ethics, civility, and professionalism in the practice
of law.’  [Citation.]  Indeed, unwarranted personal attacks on the character
or motives of the opposing party, counsel, or witnesses are inappropriate and may
constitute misconduct.  [Citations.]”  (In re S.C. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 396,
412.)
The
Court concludes with some advice and a warning from the Court of Appeal:
“[W]e
cannot allow the tone of the briefing to pass without comment. . . . Appellant targets
both respondent and its counsel in the same freewheeling, unprofessional manner.  None of these statements were necessary.  None of the vitriol advanced the legal arguments
in this case.  To the contrary, this incivility
created an unnecessary distraction to both opposing counsel and this court.  [¶]  Emotional
diatribes do nothing to support the arguments made by counsel.  In fact, this verbiage serves the opposite purpose.  It requires the court to spend additional resources
filtering out the hyperbole, and requires opposing counsel to bill their client
for additional time to compose a response. 
[¶]  Ad hominem attacks and other invective
detract from counsel’s legal arguments, signal inappropriate personal embroilment
in the dispute, and indicate an inability to engage in the reasoned analysis the
courts need and counsel’s clients deserve. 
When counsel resort to name-calling and to unsupported claims of misconduct,
they risk obscuring any meritorious arguments they may have.  Appellant’s counsel would be well advised to refrain
from incivility in the future.”  (WasteXperts,
Inc. v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 652, 666-667.)
If
any party or counsel engages in subsequent incivility, the Court may set an Order
to Show Cause Re: Imposition of Sanctions Under CCP §§ 128 or 128.5(a).
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 