  Case Number:  20STCV30564    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE L.P., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
DOWNEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV30564
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 17, 2024



 
On August 12, 2020, Plaintiff
Jane Doe L.P. filed this action against Downey Unified School District.  A jury trial is currently scheduled for January
21, 2025.
On
November 7, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for evidentiary and/or issue sanctions.
“The
court may impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses,” and may also “impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subds. (a)-(b).)  Additionally,
“[t]he court’s inherent power to curb abuses and promote fair process extends to
the preclusion of evidence.”  (Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell & Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 272, 288.)
Defendant
seeks orders (1) precluding Plaintiff from being called by her attorneys to testify
at trial; (2) excluding Plaintiff from the courtroom during trial and voir dire;
and (3) precluding Plaintiff’s attorneys from presenting evidence about what happened
during the subject incident beyond (a) what may be seen in the incident video, and
(b) the testimony and statement of eyewitness Tim Bovey.
Defendant
explains that it attempted to take Plaintiff’s deposition on May 4, 2022, but she
refused to be sworn in as a witness, and the deposition ended.  (McCune Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendant attempted again to take Plaintiff’s
deposition on December 29, 2023.  (McCune
Decl. ¶ 4.)  After being sworn in, Plaintiff
refused to answer questions about the alleged events, became aggressive, and began
hitting and throwing things.  (McCune Decl.
¶ 4 & Ex. B.)  Defendant identifies specific
deposition excerpts to demonstrate that “[i]t is clear that plaintiff does not intend
to testify in deposition about what happened in the incident.”  (Motion at pp. 7-10.)  Defendant contends that it has been deprived of
its statutory right to depose Plaintiff, and compelling a third deposition would
futile.  (Id. at p. 11.)
Plaintiff
argues that “Defendant’s motion to exclude evidence based on her inability to sit
for a part 3 of her deposition effectively weaponizes her disabilities and trauma,
seeking to silence her by excluding the very evidence necessary to substantiate
her claims.”  (Opposition at p. 1.)  According to Plaintiff, “Plaintiff’s responses
during the depositions—including her emotional outbursts, crying, screaming, her
refusal to speak and emotional shutdowns—are all consistent with the behavioral
patterns observed in individuals with ASD, particularly when placed in high-stress
situations.”  (Id. at p. 4.)  Plaintiff argues that there is no deliberate refusal
to provide discovery because Plaintiff’s cognitive impairments hinder her ability
to provide clear testimony.  (Id. at
p. 7.)
With
respect to precluding Plaintiff from being called by her attorneys to testify at
trial, the motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s
inability to complete her deposition prejudices Defendant’s preparation for trial
testimony.  Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel
indicated to Defendant’s counsel that “we are not going to be producing plaintiff
for a deposition.  Accordingly, we will not
be calling her to testify at trial.”  (McCune
Decl., Ex. E.)
With
respect to excluding Plaintiff from the courtroom during trial and voir dire, the
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The Court
will not prejudge Plaintiff’s courtroom conduct, but Defendant may renew its motion
if necessary based on events at trial.
With
respect to precluding Plaintiff’s presentation of evidence about what happened during
the subject incident beyond what may be seen in the incident video and the testimony
and statement of an eyewitness, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  Defendant contends that “[w]here plaintiff has
refused to testify about what happened in the restroom, plaintiff should not be
able to introduce such facts from other sources.”  (Motion at p. 16.)  Any other evidence remains subject to the rules
of evidence, and introduction of alternative exhibits and/or testimony can be handled
pursuant to valid objections.
Plaintiff
contends that the deposition video is necessary “to illustrate the profound damages
caused by Defendants’ negligence,” and “[w]hile the video may be emotionally impactful,
it is precisely this impact that underscores its necessity—it authentically illustrates
the depth of Plaintiff’s suffering in a manner that written records and secondhand
testimony cannot replicate.”  (Opposition
at pp. 11-12.)  The parties are ordered to
meet and confer about what, if any, portions of the deposition video they will stipulate
to admitting.  If there is no agreement, then
the Court will consider the proposed evidence pursuant to motions in limine and/or
objections at trial.
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART as set forth above. 
The motion is otherwise denied without prejudice.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 