 Case Number:  24STCV17314    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AMANDA GHOST, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
REBEL WILSON,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV17314
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 17, 2024



 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs Amanda Ghost, Gregor Cameron,
and Vince Holden field this action against Defendant Rebel Wilson.
On October 21, 2024, Defendant filed an
anti-SLAPP motion.  On November 7, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a motion to seal portions of exhibits to their opposition.
The Court may
order that a record be filed under seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding
interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing
records must be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify
the sealing.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)
A record must not be filed under seal
without a court order, and a party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting sealing must also file a
public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal with the court a complete,
unredacted version.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)
Plaintiffs seeks to seal their Exhibits
2 and 9.  Declarations filed with the anti-SLAPP
opposition describe these exhibits as a Co-Production Deal Memo and a Writer Agreement.  These exhibits contain confidential and commercially
sensitive confidential, much of which was not necessary to resolve the anti-SLAPP
motion.  (Vasquez Decl. ¶ 4.)
The Court finds
that this confidentiality concern is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, the overriding interest supports sealing the record,
and a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed.  The proposed redaction of only the two
exhibits is narrowly tailored, and there are no less restrictive means.  
The unopposed
motion to seal is GRANTED.

Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 