 Case Number:  22STCV41119    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PMH LABORATORY, INC.,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ANTHEM BLUE CROSS LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE
  COMPANY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV41119
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING RENEWED MOTION
  TO DESIGNATE CASE AS COMPLEX
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 17, 2024



 
On
August 27, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ motion to designate this case as complex.
On
October 29, 2024, Defendants’ counsel called the Complex Department and spoke with
the judge’s clerk.  (Braje Decl. ¶ 16.)  The clerk “confirmed that Anthem should not file
its Renewed Motion for Complex Determination (‘Renewed Motion’) or the Complex Case
Questionnaire in the Complex Department because the department to which the case
is assigned must make the initial determination designating the case as complex.”  (Braje Decl. ¶ 16.)
On
November 12, 2024, Defendants filed in this Court a renewed motion to designate
this case as complex.  Defendants request
an order (1) “Declaring this case to be Complex, under Rule 3.400 of the California
Rules of Court and California Judicial Standards of Judicial Administration, 3.10”;
and (2) either (a) “stating the Court will retain the case on its own docket,” or
(b) “ordering Anthem to complete the Complex Civil Case Questionnaire and submit
it to the Assistant Supervising Judge Civil/Complex for a determination as to whether
the case will be transferred to the Complex Department.”  (Motion at p. 1.)
“A
‘complex case’ is an action that requires exceptional judicial management to avoid
placing unnecessary burdens on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case,
keep costs reasonable, and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties,
and counsel.”  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.400(a).)  When deciding whether an
action is a complex case, a court must consider, among other things, whether the
action is likely to involve: “(1) Numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or
novel legal issues that will be time-consuming to resolve; (2) Management of a large
number of witnesses or a substantial amount of documentary evidence; (3) Management
of a large number of separately represented parties; (4) Coordination with related
actions pending in one or more courts in other counties, states, or countries, or
in a federal court; or (5) Substantial postjudgment judicial supervision.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.400(b).)
To
date, there have been no pretrial motions raising difficult, novel, and time-consuming
legal issues (Factor 1).  Defendants broadly
assert that “[t]his case involves a host of novel issues stemming from the pandemic.”  (Motion at p. 12.)  Specifically, “[t]here are questions as to the
applicability of the CARES Act to the 110,000 claims at issue and the showing required
for reimbursement of a provider’s ‘posted cash price’ under the Act,” as well as
“issues as to whether and to what extent [Plaintiff] is entitled to additional,
separate reimbursement for each of the CPT codes at issue.”  (Ibid.)  The Court is not convinced by this meager argument
that these questions render the case exceptionally complex.  Defendants also contend that the issues should
be decided in phases of summary adjudication motions, and they provide an example
of possible adjudication phases.  (Id.
at pp. 13-14.)  There has been no actual scheduling
proposal, and phases can still be accomplished in this Court.
Defendants
argue that there is a substantial amount of documentary evidence (Factor 2).  According to Defendants, Plaintiff “seeks additional
reimbursement for approximately 110,000 COVID Testing claims,” and Plaintiff “must
present evidence to show that each of the approximately 110,000 patient claims at
issue is covered.”  (Motion at pp. 9-10.)  Defendant contends that this “makes clear that
[Plaintiff]’s claims involve a substantial volume of documentation and documentary
evidence,” some of which will contain the protected health information of third
parties.  (Id. at p. 11.)  But Defendants acknowledge that “[t]he parties
can deal with these privacy issues [third-party health information] in discovery
by way a Stipulated Protective Order.”  (Ibid.)
In
February 2023, Plaintiff served the standard form interrogatories, only 22 special
interrogatories, and 71 requests for production.  (Norton Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff has narrowed the claims at issue to
tests performed on or before October 26, 2021. 
(Norton Decl. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff produced
data pertaining to the claims for reimbursement at issue in April 2023.  (Norton Decl. ¶ 4.)  In October 2023, Plaintiff provided updated claims
information and Defendants provided certain claims data to Plaintiff.  (Norton Decl. ¶ 4.)  “Aside from certain claims spreadsheets that Defendants
informally produced in October 2023, and two policies (totaling 14 pages all together)
that Defendants just produced on November 22, 2024, Defendants have not produced
any other documents in response to the discovery requests that [Plaintiff] served
nearly two years ago.”  (Norton Decl. ¶ 4.)  Based on this explanation, the Court does not
believe that the evidence is unmanageable.
There
are no separately represented parties or coordinated related actions (Factors 3
and 4).  There is no showing that this case
will require substantial post-judgment judicial supervision (Factor 5).
This
case is almost two years old, and a jury trial is scheduled for July 7, 2025.  To date, the Court has had no issues managing
this case.  Defendants have not shown that
this action “requires exceptional judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary
burdens on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs reasonable,
and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties, and counsel.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.400(a).)  
The
Renewed Motion for Order to Designate Case as Complex is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 