  Case Number:  22STCV33659    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Department 78 



GROVER
  HENRY COLIN NIX, IV, et al.,
Plaintiffs, 
vs. 
JPMORGAN
  CHASE & CO., et al.,
Defendants. 


Case No.: 


22STCV33659




Hearing Date: 


April 3, 2024 




[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  
motions
  TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF GROVER HENRY COLIN NIX IV’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, FORM INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS FILED BY DEFENDANT WILMINGTON TRUST



 
The
motions to compel Plaintiff Grover Henry Colin Nix IV’s responses to Form and
Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production filed by Defendant the
Wilmington Trust are GRANTED.
Verified
responses without objections must be served within 15 days after the date of
this order.
The
Wilmington Trust’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff is GRANTED in
the amount of $1,975. Sanctions are payable within 15 days after the date of
this order.
Moving
party to give notice.
Factual background
This
is an action for wrongful foreclosure. Plaintiff alleges that he purchased a
home after obtaining a mortgage from American Home Mortgage Investment Corp.
After the lender filed for bankruptcy, Chase, without consideration, falsely
conveyed the deed to a Chase entity called SAM II, a pool of mortgages bundled
together by a pooling agreement. In November 2012, Chase initiated nonjudicial
foreclosure proceedings against Plaintiff. After Plaintiff transferred the
property to Soames Lane Trust, the trust filed for bankruptcy. The bankruptcy
court lifted the automatic stay in 2020 and again after the trust filed for
bankruptcy a second time. Chase held a foreclosure sale in October 2022. 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On
October 17, 2022, Plaintiffs Grover Henry Colin Nix, IV (Nix) and the Soames Lane
Trust filed their Complaint against Defendants JPMorgan Chase Bank and the
Wilmington Trust, NA (Wilmington Trust).
On December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint naming additional defendants Structured
Asset Mortgage Investment II Trust 2007-AR7, Inc., Elizabeth Newsome,
Ro’Quintessa Ledawnika Givens, Katrina Ashton, Krisshune Benjamin, and Carol
Cinquemani. 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs
dismissed Defendants Elizabeth Newsom, Ro’Quintessa Ledawnika Givens, Katrina
Ashton, Krisshune Tate Benjamin, and Carol Cinquemani from this action.
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Second Amended Complaint.
On November 20, 2023, Defendant Wilmington
Trust filed these motions to compel Nix’s responses to requests for written
discovery.
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
Wilmington Trust moves to compel Nix’s responses to requests for Form
Interrogatories (FROGs), Special Interrogatories (SROGs), and Requests for
Production (RPDs).
Compelling
Responses to Interrogatories
Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the
party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of
the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the
propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on
motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response.
(Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.260, subd. (a).)\
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc section
2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served. All that needs be shown in the moving
papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing
party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind
has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)
 
Compelling Response to Demand for Production
of Documents 
 
Where there has been no timely response to a
demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order
compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to
timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the
demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise
objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to
compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not
attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. 
Objections
A party waives its objections to a discovery request
when it does not serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc.,
section 030.290(a)) Even if objections do not need to be verified, objections
will be waived if the responding party “fails to file any response
within the statutory time period.” (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.)
Verification
Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all and
are subject to a motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel
further responses).  (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.
App. 3d 632, 635-36.) However,
objections to interrogatories and demands for production are not required to be
verified because “objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not
factual assertions by a party.” (Blue Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court
(1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)
Sanctions
Sanction are mandatory against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)
Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).
) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. 
Here,
the Wilmington Trust’s counsel testifies that he propounded FROGs, SROGs, and
RPDs on Nix on February 28, 2023. (Fink Decl., ¶4.) Nix’s responses were due on
April 4, 2023. (Id., ¶5.) Plaintiff requested an extension on April 5,
2023, which the Wilmington Trust granted. (Id., ¶6.) On April 26, 2023,
the day after responses were due, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested a further
extension to May 12, 2023. (Id.) On May 12, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel
sent the Wilmington Trust’s counsel a letter representing Plaintiffs would not
provide responses or production of documents. (Id.) The letter states
Plaintiffs are “holding off serving [their] formal responses” because they are
seeking a protective order. (Id., Exh. C.) Plaintiffs’ counsel represented
that the protective order was necessary to protect Plaintiffs’ financial and
credit information. (Id.)
Nix failed
to respond to the Wilmington Trust’s discovery requests. A response to
interrogatories must contain either (1) an answer containing the information
sought to be discovered, (2) an exercise of the party’s option to produce
writings, or (3) an objection to the particular interrogatory. (Code Civ.
Proc., section 2030.210(a).) The responding party must answer each
interrogatory individually and each answer or objection in response must bear
the same identifying number or letter and be in the same sequence as the
corresponding interrogatory. (Id., subd. (c).) Likewise, responses to
requests for production must respond to each item or category of items
separately by (1) a statement the party will comply, (2) a representation that
the party lacks the ability to comply, or (3) an objection to the particular
demand. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.210(a).) A court may compel responses
without objections if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 409.)
 
Here,
Nix’s May 12, 2023 letter does not constitute a valid response to any of the
Wilmington Trust’s discovery requests. Nix’s counsel’s letter merely states Nix
will seek a protective order to protect financial and credit information. It
does not respond separately to each particular interrogatory, request for
production, or category of items with the options allowed under Code Civ.
Proc., sections 2030.210(a) and 2031.210(a). Because the letter contains none
of the required contents of responses to interrogatories or requests for
production, the letter does not constitute a legally valid response. Nix thus failed
to provide any response to the Wilmington Trust’s requests for written
discovery. Nix’s objections to the requests are waived because he failed to
serve timely responses. The Wilmington Trust’s motions to compel Nix’s
responses to discovery requests are granted.
 
Nix
argues that these motions should not be heard until the Court has had the
opportunity to address and rule on his motion for a protective order. However,
there is no law that discovery responses or discovery motions may be withheld
or stayed pending the outcome of a protective order. If Nix believed the
discovery requests were improper, Nix was required to serve objections to each
set of discovery requests compliant with Code Civ. Proc., sections 2030.210(a)
and 2031.210(a).  Moreover, Nix had ample
time to timely file a motion. He did not do so. Further, Nix fails to explain
how every single discovery request requires information that would be subject
to a protective order. 
 
With
respect to sanctions, the Court finds that Nix did not oppose this motion with
substantial justification. Additionally, failure to timely serve responses to
discovery constitutes abuse of the discovery process. The Court awards the
Wilmington Trust a total of $1,975 for 5 hours of attorney time at a rate of
$395 per hour plus $120 in filing fees.
 
DATED: April 3, 2024
____________________________ 
Hon. Jill Feeney
Judge of the Superior Court 
 