 On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs Andrea Perez, Byron Arroyo, Antony Perez, and Esteban Lopez filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Lee Tran, Anilkumar Desai, and Krutal Desai for (1) contractual/tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) statutory violation of warranty of habitability, (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) nuisance, (5) IIED, (6) negligence, (7) “influencing” a wrongful eviction, (8) retaliatory eviction, (9) forcible entry, (10) violation of the UCL, (11) financial abuse of elders and disabled persons, (12) unlawful rent increase, and (13) violation of resolution of the Board of Supervisors of LA County. Defendant Lee Tran now demurs to the eleventh cause of action for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)The elements of a cause of action for financial elder abuse are (1) the defendant took, hid, appropriated, obtained or retained plaintiff's property; (2) plaintiff is at least 65 years of age or a dependent adult; (3) the defendant took, hid, appropriated, obtained or retained plaintiff's property for a wrongful use, with the intent to defraud, or by undue influence; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.  (See CACI No. 3100.)The Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs Andrea Perez and Esteban Lopez suffer “from health conditions that significantly impact one or more major life activity”, making them dependent adults.  It is also alleged that Tran retained their rent without remediating substandard conditions.  It is alleged that this caused monetary harm and emotional distress.  The taking must have been done either (a) for a wrongful use, (b) with the intent to defraud, or (c) by undue influence.  There is no allegation as to fraud.  Further, “ ‘Undue influence” means excessive persuasion that overcomes another person’s free will and causes the person to do something or to not do something that causes an unfair result.”  (CACI no. 3117.)  It is not apparent from the Complaint that Tran participated in unwarranted and wrongful persuasion by merely failing to ensure habitable conditions.The only remaining issue is whether the retention of rent was for a “wrongful use.”  “[U]nder subdivision (b) of 15610.30, wrongful conduct occurs only when the party who violates the contract actually knows that it is engaging in a harmful breach, or reasonably should be aware of the harmful breach.”  (Paslay v. State Farm Gen. Ins. Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 658.)  Here, the Complaint adequately alleges wrongful use: “Defendant Tran was always aware of the substandard conditions”; “Defendant Tran hired MIG to author a report regarding the condition of the home. . . . The MIG report confirms the presence of numerous substandard conditions in the home”; “On or around January 26, 2024, Plaintiff Andrea Perez requested that Defendant Tran address the continuing rodent problem”; “Tran personally observed the problems due to his persistent abuse of landlord entry for the purpose of showing the property to prospective purchaser”; “The rodent infestation has been so bad at times as to destroy property. Plaintiffs had to replace their couch during the course of their tenancy due to the rodent infestation. Plaintiffs had to throw their children’s toys away on two separate occasions due to finding rat feces on the toys.”  Tran otherwise makes a number of irrelevant arguments that pertain to an ordinary elder abuse claim—and not a financial abuse claim.  Further facts, including as to Plaintiffs’ alleged disabilities, can be obtained in discovery.Thus, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.