On March 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Carlos Davis and H.D. Doe filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants HOME 2 U 9, LLC and HOMEIIU, LLC for negligence.  The allegations of the FAC are as follows.  Plaintiffs lived next door to Defendants’ adult residential care facility.  Steve Golden was a resident at the facility.  Golden had been charged for child molestation and had a propensity for such acts.  Golden was also found mentally incompetent during his criminal prosecution.  Defendants knew all of this.  Plaintiff Davis noticed Golden had a fascination with his minor daughter, H.D. Doe.  In regard to Golden, Defendants told Davis that “We got him; we’re handling him”.  One night, when Defendants’ night staff fell asleep, Golden left the facility.  Davis woke up to his daughter screaming and found that the door to her bedroom was locked.  When Davis was able to gain access, he saw that Golden was sexually assaulting his daughter.  After a struggle, Davis was able to remove Golden from his home.  Golden was then arrested on multiple charges.  Defendants failed to warn Plaintiffs that Golden had a propensity to sexually assault children.  Had Davis known this, he would have taken precautions to prevent such misconduct.  Plaintiffs now seek to compel further responses/production with respect to their requests for production, set four, nos. 41, 43, 97, 109, and 110 propounded on Defendant HOME 2 U 9, LLC.  Defendant produced a privilege log for request nos. 41, 43, and 97 and identified the following documents: (1) Functional Behavior Assessment and 30-Day Individual Service Plan, (2) Functional Capability Assessment, (3) Admission Agreement Guide for Residential Facilities, (4) Appraisal/Needs and Services Plan, (5) Preplacement Appraisal Information, and (6) County of Los Angeles Sheriff's Dept Medical/Mental Health Transfer Summary.  Plaintiffs seek the production of these six documents listed in the aforementioned privilege log.  Defendant also asserted objections to request nos. 109-110, which relate to licensing.  Plaintiffs argue that these objections are meritless.Defendant argues that these documents are confidential under the Lanterman Act and/or irrelevant.As relevant here, the Lanterman Act provides that “All information and records obtained in the course of providing intake, assessment, and services under Division 4.1 (commencing with Section 4400), Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 4500), Division 6 (commencing with Section 6000), or Division 7 (commencing with Section 7100) to persons with developmental disabilities shall be confidential.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code § 4514.)  Indeed, “information and records obtained in the course of providing services to developmentally disabled persons are confidential.”  (State Dep't of Pub. Health v. Superior Ct. (2015) 60 Cal.4th 940, 953.)The Court finds that the six documents should be produced pursuant to Welf. & Inst. Code § 4514(f) as being necessary to the administration of justice in that these documents may show Defendant’s state of knowledge with respect to Golden’s propensities.  Defendant failed to establish with evidence that these documents could not possibly contain this information.As a note, Defendant claims that the instant Motion is untimely with respect to these documents, but the Motion was apparently triggered by responses to new discovery in August 2024.Additionally, further responses are required for request nos. 109-110 because the licensing documents could identify other relevant witnesses, like an administrator.  The Motion to Compel is granted.  Further responses and production are to be provided within 20 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions. Moving party to give notice.