 On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff Loomis Armored US, LLC (“Loomis”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Rafael Castillo for (1) violation of Pen. Code § 496, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) conversion.  Plaintiff alleges that it has a cash delivery service and that its employee, Castillo, stole $36,000. On June 13, 2024, the Court consolidated this matter with Rafael Castillo v. Loomis Armored US, LLC, et al., Case No. 23STCV04436. Therein, Castillo brings claims for discrimination, harassment, failure to prevent misconduct, wrongful discharge, and defamation against Loomis and also five of its employees, Jessie Hernandez, Nolan Tate, Ryan Shake, Urias Jimenez, and John Toliano.   Castillo alleges that he had been an excellent employee for years, but when Shake was hired, he orchestrated a scheme in which he hired two younger employees, had Castillo completely train them, and then fired Castillo through a false assertion that he stole $36,000.  Castillo alleges that the LAPD and District Attorney found no probable cause for an arrest and that he has not been charged for any crime.   Castillo now seeks to quash a deposition subpoena issued to his wife, Janet Castillo.  The subpoena seeks oral testimony and documents pertaining to (a) all documents, invoices, and communications showing the costs for the two quinceaneras of Castillo’s daughters and (b) all documents showing Janet’s income from January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2022.  Castillo argues that he himself has already produced some relevant documents and the subpoena seeks private information.  Castillo further argues that the marital communications and spousal privileges apply. Loomis contends that it “has reason to believe that Defendant was motivated to steal the money from Loomis because he was facing significant financial stressors in his personal life, including substantial bills for his upcoming second daughter’s expensive quinceañera in the Fall of 2022 and the repayment of a loan he took out against his 401(k) account prior to his first daughter’s quinceañera in late 2019. The subpoenaed documents and testimony of Mrs. Castillo are necessary to understand Defendant’s possible motives for stealing from Loomis.”Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)While a privacy interest applies to the financial documents at issue, the Court finds that some of the documents at issue are directly relevant to establishing a motive for conversion.  However, the document requests are somewhat overaborad.  The Court will narrow the subpoena to seek documents sufficient to show (a) the total costs for the two quinceaneras and (b) the income of Janet between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2022.  Oral testimony should not take more than two hours on these issues. Further, the Court cannot say that the marital communications privilege applies in wholesale fashion.  “[T]he privilege applies only to oral or written verbal expression from one spouse to the other, and acts of the spouses committed in each other's presence do not constitute communications between them, within the meaning of the privilege for confidential marital communications.”  (2 Jefferson, Cal. Evidence Benchbook (Cont.Ed.Bar 2d ed. 1982) Privilege for Confidential Marital Communications, § 36.2, p. 1348; see also 2 Jefferson, Cal. Evidence Benchbook (Cont.Ed.Bar 3d ed. Mar.2002 Supp.) § 36.21, p. 811; People v. Bradford (1969) 70 Cal.2d 333, 342, fn. 2, 74 Cal.Rptr. 726, 450 P.2d 46 [acts of placing cans in garage and giving wife the victim's jewelry “are not ‘communications' within the meaning of the privilege”]; People v. Dorsey (1975) 46 Cal.App.3d 706, 717, 120 Cal.Rptr. 508[“[T]he privilege encompasses only communications between husband and wife during marriage. It does not extend to physical facts which are observed, which do not constitute ‘communications' ”].)  Here, Loomis does not ostensibly seek communications between Rafael and Janet; rather, Loomis seeks substantive facts about Janet’s income and the expenses for two quinceaneras.  Further, Rafael testified he had little to no information about these subjects, so it’s hard to see how Lomis is seeking a communication between the two spouses.  The privilege can be asserted as necessary during the deposition.   Finally, the spousal privilege belongs to Janet, and Rafael has no right to assert it on her behalf.  (People v. McWhorter (2009) 47 Cal.4th 318, 374 [“The spousal privilege is personal to the spouse seeking to avoid testifying, and because Billie, and not defendant, was the holder of the privilege, defendant does not have standing to raise the claim.”].)  Further, while the Court need not reach the issue at this time, it may be that the spousal privilege does not apply because this is a civil action and Rafael seeks to defend his and Janet’s community property interest.  (See Evid. Code 973(b).)    In sum, the Motion to Quash is granted in part—the documents are narrowed as set forth herein.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.