  Case Number:  19LBCV00725    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Relevant
Procedural History
Plaintiff, ACMC Finance and Trade,
LLC filed this action against Defendants, Energy Trading Company, LLC, Petro
Diamond, Inc., Jack Khachatryan, Sona Apikian, Sargis Khachatryan, Gianni
Saryan, John Davids, and Dennis Rogers, Jr. on 12/20/19.  
 
On 10/01/21, the Court held a
default judgment prove-up hearing.  At
the conclusion of the hearing, it entered judgment against Defendant, John
Gessin aka John Davis in the amount of $2,450,000 plus costs and interest.  It ordered Plaintiff to file a default
judgment prove-up packet in order to obtain judgment against the remaining
defaulted defendants.  On 10/20/21, the
Court entered default judgment against the remaining defendants, all of whom
had been served by publication, in the amount of $2,450,000 plus costs and
interest.  On 10/21/21, Plaintiff gave
notice to the above-named defendants, by mail at their last-known addresses, of
the judgment entered against them.  
 
On 3/24/22, the Court heard and
denied the remaining defendants’ motions to vacate default and default
judgment.  On 6/21/22, the Court heard
and denied their motion for reconsideration. 
They appalled the judgment against them, and on 3/15/24, the Court of
Appeals denied their appeal and affirmed the judgment.  
 
2.     Motion
for Sanctions
Plaintiff provides evidence that
Defense Counsel, subsequent to the 3/15/24 COA decision, has sent numerous
emails to Plaintiff’s attorney threatening litigation against Plaintiff and its
attorney; specifically, Defense Counsel has threatened to sue for violation of
the FDCPA.  Plaintiff seeks a sanctions
order against Defense Counsel; specifically, Plaintiff seeks an order
admonishing Defense Counsel to cease making these threats.  
 
Despite the lack of opposition, the
Court is not inclined to issue the order sought.  As a matter of basic Constitutional law, the
Court notes that prior restraints on speech are reserved for the most serious
of situations.  Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
attorney have sufficient recourse if Defendants continue to act
inappropriately.  If Defendants actually
file a lawsuit for violation of the FDCPA, Plaintiff can fight the lawsuit, can
file an anti-SLAPP motion, can demur to the lawsuit, and can sue for abuse of
process and/or malicious prosecution.  To
be clear, the Court is not holding that Defense Counsel’s communications are
appropriate; the Court is holding only that creating a sanctions order that
gags Defense Counsel’s ability to speak is not a remedy it is willing to
impose.  The motion is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.