 Case Number:  23LBCV02382    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, K-Ray Properties, LLC
filed this unlawful detainer action against Defendant, Harbor City Enterprises,
Inc. on 12/06/23.  On 12/14/23, Plaintiff
filed proof of service of the summons, complaint, and related papers on Defendant
by service on Deanna L. Jones, Defendant’s agent of service of process, by and
through substitute service on Gilbert Lucero, Manager.  
 
On 1/03/24, Defendant having failed
to respond, the Court entered Judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendant.  On 1/17/24, the Court issued
a writ of possession re: the subject property. 

 
2.     Motion
to Quash, Vacate, and Dismiss  

Relief Sought

Defendant seeks an order (a)
quashing service of the summons and complaint, (b) vacating the default,
default judgment, and writ of possession, and (c) dismissing the action.  
 

Analysis

Defendant addresses its request to
quash service of the summons and complaint BEFORE it addresses its request to
vacate the default, default judgment, and writ of possession.  Defendant’s motion puts the proverbial cart
before the horse.  Defendant is in
default, and unless and until default is vacated, Defendant cannot seek any
other relief.  Entry of defendant's
default instantaneously cuts off its right to appear in the action. The
defendant is “out of court.”  It has no
right to participate in the proceedings until either (a) its default is set
aside (in which event, it may respond to the complaint), or (b) a default
judgment is entered (in which event, it may appeal).  Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc.
(1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.  
 
The Court, therefore, will consider
Defendant’s motion to vacate the default, default judgment, and writ of
possession before it considers the motion to quash.  
 

Motion to Vacate
     Default, Default Judgment, and Writ of Possession

Defendant moves to vacate the
default, default judgment, and writ of possession based on (a) extrinsic fraud,
(b) CCP §473(b), (c) CCP §473.5. 
i.             
Extrinsic Fraud
Defendant’s first
argument is that the default should be set aside because Defendant was not
served.  Specifically, Defendant
contends, “There was no court order for substitute service and therefore
substitute service was…invalid.” 
Defendant bases its argument on Corporations Code §1702(a).  This section, however, applies when a
plaintiff wishes to serve a defendant by substitute service on the Secretary of
State.  Plaintiff herein did not serve
Defendant by substitute service on the Secretary of State, and the section has
no application.  
Defendant, in
reply, focuses on Lucero being an improper person to serve under CCP
§416.10(a).  Defendant provides
declarations concerning Lucero’s status in the company.  Notably, this evidence should have been
provided with the moving, not reply, papers. 
Regardless, Lucero was not the person served.  The person served was Jones, and service on
Jones was effectuated by substitute service on Lucero.  It appears the real crux of Defendant’s
argument is that substitute service on an agent for service of process is not
proper.  
Pursuant to CCP
§415.20(a), when serving an entity defendant by substitute service, if the
entity defendant's “physical address” is known, the following steps are
required:
•       Leave
a copy of the summons and complaint in the office of the person authorized to
be served on behalf of the entity (¶ 4:135 ff.) during usual office hours;
•       Leave
it with the person “apparently in charge thereof”; and
•       Thereafter,
mail other copies (prepaid by first class mail) to such person at the place
where the copies were left. 
Plaintiff
completed each of these steps, and Defendant does not meaningfully challenge
the service.  The motion to vacate the
default, default judgment, and writ of possession on equitable grounds is
therefore denied.
ii.            
§473(b)
Defendant’s second argument is that
the default, default judgment, and writ of possession should be set aside per
CCP §473(b).  This argument fails for the
reasons set forth above.  Additionally,
Plaintiff correctly notes, in opposition to the motion, that this argument also
fails because Defendant did not file the motion within six months and did not
file a copy of a proposed responsive pleading, both of which are required by
§473(b).  Notably, Defendant argues in
reply that the Court gave him permission to file a proposed answer with his
reply papers, which he did.  Even if this
is correct, the motion fails for the other two reasons.
 
iii.           
§473.5
Setting aside a default pursuant to
CCP §473.5 is appropriate when service is proper, but does not result in actual
notice of the proceedings to the defendant. 
Defendant contends §473.5 applies because it was never served.  This argument fails both for the reasons set
forth above.
 
Defendant, in reply, argues that,
even if Plaintiff did serve the papers on Jones by substitute service on
Lucero, Lucero never gave the papers to Jones, and therefore default must be
set aside.  Defendant does not make clear
that this argument applies to §473.5, but it appears that is the case.  Again, Defendant’s evidence and argument are
made for the first time in reply, which is not appropriate.  These arguments should have been made in the
moving papers, and the evidence should have been presented with the moving
papers.  Additionally, Defendant does not
make clear that this argument applies to §473.5, and instead simply includes
the information in the introduction section of the reply papers.
 
Plaintiff objects to the Jones
Declaration, filed with the reply, correctly noting that the evidence should
have been included with the moving papers. 
Defendant filed a response to the objection, wherein Defendant argues
Plaintiff had time to file a sur-reply per Code, Plaintiff refused to stipulate
to continue the hearing to give Plaintiff time to respond to the declarations
filed with the reply papers, the declarations were made necessary due to the
opposition papers and were therefore the proper subject of reply, and Defendant
did not have time to prepare all the declarations on the tight briefing
schedule ordered by the Court.
 
The Court finds the declarations
most certainly should have been filed with the moving papers, as they go to the
moving, not reply, burden on the motion. 
The Code does not permit a sur-reply, and Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiff was permitted, per CCP §1005(b), to file a sur-reply until five days
prior to the hearing is not supported by the cited portion of the Code itself,
which refers to a reply and not to a sur-reply. 
That said, any prejudice to Plaintiff can be remedied by a brief
continuance of the hearing to permit Plaintiff to substantively respond.  
 
The Court will briefly continue the
hearing, as set forth below, to permit Plaintiff to substantively respond to
the §473.5 argument and declarations submitted with the reply papers.  
 

Conclusion

The Court is continuing the hearing
for one month, to Tuesday, 9/10/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The only papers that can be filed are a
supplemental opposition and a supplemental reply, which must be filed per
Code.  The issue to be addressed is
whether the declarations filed with the reply papers establish substitute
service on Lucero did not result in actual notice to Jones, such that the
default should be set aside.  The parties
should limit their legal arguments and evidence to this issue.  The Court will not re-visit the other issues
addressed above in connection with the continued hearing.  
 
The Court will consider Defendant’s
request to quash service of the summons and complaint in connection with the
continued hearing date.  The Court will
consider the alternative request for relief if and only if it ultimately sets
aside the default.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   