 Case Number:  24LBCV00145    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Joelle Samsel filed this action against Defendants, Marina
Pacifica Homeowners Association, Summit Consultants, Inc., Todd D. Jones
Construction, Inc. LN&N Construction, Inc., TRI Tower, Inc., Accent Metal
Words Structural Preservation System, LLC for nuisance, trespass, and
negligence arising out of water intrusion into her condominium unit.     
 
2.     Demurrer

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred but were unable to resolve the issues presented by
way of the demurrer.  The Court notes
that Plaintiff has not opposed the demurrer. 
The Court asks Plaintiff to meaningfully participate in meet and confer
and, in the future, to either dismiss any claim she does not intend to support
or oppose any pleading challenge.    
 
c.     Analysis
Defendant demurs to the second
cause of action for trespass, contending water intrusion from a tropical storm
does not constitute trespass.  The Court
agrees that the claim does not meet the elements of trespass set forth in
Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th
245, 262, cited in Defendant’s moving papers. 
The demurrer is therefore sustained. 
In light of the lack of opposition, leave to amend is denied.    
 
3.     Case
Management Conference and OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC and OSC re: failure to file proof of service on calendar concurrently
with the hearing on the above demurrer. 
The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the
CMC, OSC, and hearing on the demurrer.