 Case Number:  21STCV11207    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Adam Dolewski filed this
action against Defendants, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield,
LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC for premises liability and negligence arising out
of an incident that occurred at a Dollar Tree location in Long Beach.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ negligence
caused him to be confined in a freezer for a substantial period of time, which
caused him injuries and damages.  
 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint
against Hill Phoenix, Inc. and Hill Phoenix WIC, LLC, the entities that
manufactured the subject freezer. 
Thereafter, Plaintiff amended his complaint to include a claim for
manufacturing defects against Hill Phoenix. 

 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment (Defendants, Dollar Tree Stores, et al.)
a.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.     Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff filed objections with his
opposition papers.  A ruling on the
motion does not turn on a ruling on his objections, and the Court declines to
rule on them.  CCP §437c(q).
 
Defendant filed objections with its
reply papers.  Most of the objections do
not affect the analysis of the motion, and the Court declines to rule on
them.  CCP §437c(q).  Objection 12 is overruled.  Objections to a separate statement are not
proper; objections must be to evidence, not to a separate statement.  CRC 3.1354. 

 
c.     Analysis
The Court is faced with a
relatively discreet legal issue for determination on this motion.  The Court must determine where the line
should be drawn between comparative fault and an unforeseeable situation.  It is clear that a jury, faced with the facts
of this case, will find Plaintiff largely responsible for his own
situation.  Plaintiff admits he knew he
was walking into a freezer and understood it was a freezer.  Undisputed fact 55.  Most of Plaintiff’s theories of liability,
such as the theory that Defendant was obligated to have an employee check the
freezer every night before leaving, seek to impose a duty the Court is not
comfortable imposing and finds legally untenable.
The Court is concerned, however,
about disputed fact 54.  Defendant
contends it is undisputed that “That includes trying to look for the plunger,
even though he knew what it was and how to operate it based on his prior
experience.”  First, it is not clear what
this fact means.  What includes?  In any event, the fact is supported by
Plaintiff’s deposition, Exhibit C to the moving papers, page 201, wherein
Plaintiff was asked what he did to get out of the freezer and testified he
banged on the door but did not do anything else.  
 
Nothing in page 201 of Plaintiff’s
testimony establishes he knew what the plunger was or how to use it based on
his prior experience.  This may be
present somewhere else in his testimony, but it is not on page 201 of his
deposition transcript.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiff provides
evidence that the plunger was blocked by a dolly laden with bags of ice, which
would need to be moved to use the plunger. 
Plaintiff supports this contention with video footage and Andrea
Espinal’s testimony.  Defendant, in
reply, argues that the video footage was taken AFTER Plaintiff was released
from the freezer, so it is not clear whether the plunger was blocked when
Plaintiff was in the freezer, or whether things were moved once he was
discovered.  The Court has reviewed
Espinal’s testimony and finds that she testified, at page 135 of the
transcript, that the U-Boat was in the place where it is usually kept by the
store.  Thus, a reasonable juror could
find that the U-Boat was in the location seen on the video when Plaintiff
entered the freezer.  That said,
Defendant provides evidence that the employees knew where the plunger was and
knew how to use it even if there was a U-boat loaded with ice in front of the
plunger.  Fact 19.  
 
The legal issue, therefore, is
whether a landowner has a duty not to increase the danger to someone who has
found himself in a place where he should not be.  Facts 5-8 establish Plaintiff entered an
unmarked stockroom that a reasonable person would conclude was for employee
use.  Additionally, Plaintiff does not
dispute fact 30, which establishes he asked to use a restroom and was told the
restrooms were closed due to COVID; thus, he was not in the stockroom to look
for a restroom.  Importantly, fact 11,
which is undisputed, establishes Plaintiff “knew” the things in the stockroom
signaled it was a stockroom.  Fact 13
establishes the freezer is marked FREEZER, and this fact is undisputed.   
 
The Court has reviewed the law
concerning dangerous condition of public property and finds it is helpful in
addressing this issue.  Notably,
dangerous condition of public property is more, not less, difficult to establish
than shopkeeper liability.  Case law
explains that property is not dangerous (so as to expose the entity to
liability) if it is safe when used with due care and the risk of harm is
created only when a foreseeable user fails to exercise due care.  Gov.C. § 830(a);  Fuller v. Department of Transp. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 1034, 1042-1043.  However,
the fact that the plaintiff, or a third party who caused or contributed to the
plaintiff's injury, failed to use due care does not itself absolve the
government entity of liability. “The status of a condition as ‘dangerous’ for
purposes of the statutory definition does not depend on whether the plaintiff
or other persons were actually exercising due care but on whether the condition
of the property posed a substantial risk of injury to persons who were
exercising due care.”  Cole v. Town of
Los Gatos (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 749, 768. 
See also Castro v. City of Thousand Oaks (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1451,
1459, holding, “the fact the particular plaintiff may not have used due care is
relevant only to his or her comparative fault and not to the issue of the
presence of a dangerous condition.”  
 
The Court finds it was reasonably
foreseeable that someone other than an employee could be in the freezer and
need to access the emergency exit.  Thus,
blocking the exit could be seen as creating a dangerous condition in the
freezer.  All other issues ultimately go
to Plaintiff’s comparative fault, and the summary judgment motion is
denied.  
 
3.     Motion
for Summary Judgment (Defendant, Hill Phoenix)
a.     Parties’
Positions
Hill Phoenix, Inc. and Hill Phoenix
WIC, LLC (“Hill Phoenix”) move for summary judgment on the complaint and
cross-complaints filed against them, contending (a) Defendants owed Plaintiff
no duty because Plaintiff’s injuries were not foreseeable, and (b) they did not
cause Plaintiff’s injuries.  
 
Plaintiff opposes.  He contends the expert opinion of Gregory R.
Hora establishes the freezer was defectively designed, and the defective design
caused his injuries, which were foreseeable. 

 
Defendants, in reply, contend
Hora’s opinions are subject to objection and not admissible.  They contend that, even if Hora’s opinions
are considered, his opinions do not establish foreseeability and/or causation.
 
b.     Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff submitted objections with
his opposition papers.  The first
objection to the Martin declaration is sustained; the second objection is
overruled.  Plaintiff’s objections to the
Rosen declaration are overruled.
 
Defendants submitted objections
with their reply papers.  The objection
to the entire Hora declaration is sustained. 
The Court declines to rule on the remaining objections, as they are
moot.  
 
 
c.     Duty
“The question of ‘the existence and
scope of the defendant's duty is one of law to be decided by the court, not by
a jury, and therefore it generally is amenable to resolution by summary
judgment.”  Willhide-Michiulis v. Mammoth
Mountain Ski Area, LLC (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 344, 358.  
The Court finds the foreseeability
of Plaintiff’s injuries was so remote that Defendants did not owe him a duty to
prevent those injuries.  While the Court
found, above, that it was reasonably foreseeable that SOMEONE could end up in
the freezer, ending up in the freezer would only be dangerous if that person
could not get out of the freezer.  The
evidence showed triable issues concerning the placement of an obstacle in front
of the escape mechanism in the freezer, which would render inability to get out
of the freezer foreseeable.  It is not,
however, foreseeable to the freezer manufacturer that someone would place an
obstacle in front of the escape mechanism. 
The Court finds imposing such a duty goes too far.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s
expert opines that a variety of additional safety measures should have been
implemented to render the freezer safe. 
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s expert testimony are sustained, as
Plaintiff’s expert does not establish he is a competent expert in freezer
manufacturing standards.  Regardless,
while there may have been additional safety measures that could have possibly
been implemented when designing the freezer, it remains undisputed that a very
specific set of events had to unfold in order for Plaintiff to end up in the
freezer overnight, and that specific set of events was not foreseeable to a
person designing a freezer.  The Court
therefore declines to impose a duty to design and manufacture a freezer with
additional safety features in this case. 

 
The motion for summary judgment is
granted.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If the parties do not submit on the
tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.