 Case Number:  23STCV17811    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
Defendants CrossTown Electrical & Data, Inc.,
Justin Adkins, Eric Hudson, and Alex Zepeda move to compel arbitration of this
action by plaintiff Eric Vasquez.
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendants
make numerous objections to plaintiff’s evidence.  All objections are overruled.   
Existence of Agreement
            Plaintiff
argues defendants fail to prove any arbitration agreement between the parties
exists.  Defendants rely on arbitration
provisions in two collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) in effect from
2018-2022 (Heermance Decl., Ex. A) and 2022-2026 (id., Ex. B),
respectively.  
Plaintiff argues there is no agreement because the
parties did not sign the CBAs. 
Individual members of a union are not required to sign the CBA.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health
Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 542 (Mendez) [despite not
signing, “as a member of the union, Mendez was bound by the terms of the
collective bargaining agreement”].)  Defendants establish the parties were bound by these
CBAs.  CrossTown is a member of the
Associated General Contractors of California. 
(Heermance Decl., ¶ 2.)  That
association entered the first CBA with a union, The Southern California
District Council of Laborers.  (Id.,
¶ 2, Ex. A, p. 58.)  CrossTown itself
executed the first CBA with the union.  (Id.,
¶ 2, Ex. B, p. CED000313.)  Plaintiff was
a member of that union.  (Id., ¶
4.)  The CBAs, including the arbitration
provisions, apply to plaintiff.
Waiver
            Plaintiff
argues defendants waived the right to arbitrate.  “[A]
party who resists arbitration on the ground of waiver bears a heavy burden
[citation], and any doubts regarding a waiver allegation should be resolved in
favor of arbitration.”  (St. Agnes
Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187,
1195.)  “[M]erely participating in
litigation by itself” does not result in waiver.  (Id. at p. 1203.)  Delay
alone is insufficient for waiver.  (Khalatian
v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 663 [14-month
delay “insufficient to support the waiver”; Iskanian v. CLS Transportation
Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 376 [no waiver despite
three years of litigation].)  
In determining waiver, “ ‘[t]he relevant factors
include whether the party seeking arbitration (1) has “previously taken steps inconsistent
with an intent to invoke arbitration,” (2) “has unreasonably delayed” in
seeking arbitration, (3) or has acted in “bad faith” or with “willful
misconduct.” ’ ”  (Adolph v. Coastal
Auto Sales, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1450.)
First, defendants took minimal steps inconsistent
with an intent to invoke arbitration. 
They conducted some discovery, but there is no indication they “gained information
about plaintiff’s case they could not have learned in an arbitration.”  (Khalatian
v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc., supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 663.)       
Second, defendants did not unreasonably delay
seeking arbitration.  They answered the
complaint on September 5, 2023, and moved to compel arbitration on February 26,
2024.  Defendants also present evidence
they did not know they had a right to compel arbitration.  Benjamin Heermance states, “CrossTown did not
recall the arbitration requirement in the CBA until on or about February 7,
2024 upon detailed discussion with Defendants’ defense counsel.  Had CrossTown recalled earlier, CrossTown
would have notified defense counsel of the Arbitration requirement much earlier.”  (Heermance Decl., ¶  6.)  
Third, there is no evidence defendants acted in bad
faith. 
The court concludes defendants did not waive the
right to compel arbitration.
Agreement to Arbitrate Statutory Claims
Plaintiff argues that a CBA cannot require
arbitration of statutory claims without a clear and unmistakable waiver of the
right to bring a civil action.  Plaintiff
relies on authority that imposes such a requirement for “statutory
discrimination claims,” not statutory claims in general.  A “collective bargaining agreement” must
“contain a clear and unmistakable agreement to arbitrate statutory
discrimination claims.”  (Mendez,
supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p. 544 [FEHA claim]; accord Vasquez v. Superior
Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 430, 435 [FEHA claim, stating “ ‘In the
collective bargaining context, the parties “must be particularly clear” about
their intent to arbitrate statutory discrimination claims’ ”]; Ibarra v.
United Parcel Service (5th Cir. 2012) 695 F.3d 354, 356 [“The grievance
process established in the CBA forms the exclusive remedy for Ibarra’s Title
VII claim only if the CBA clearly and unmistakably waives Ibarra’s right to
pursue her Title VII claim in a judicial forum”].)  Plaintiff does not allege a statutory
discrimination claim.  He alleges various
Labor Code violations, whistleblower retaliation, unfair competition, and tort
claims.  
Assuming the heightened requirement applies, both
CBAs meet it.  The 2018-2022 CBA requires
arbitration of “all employee disputes concerning violations of, or arising
under Wage Order 16 …, the California Labor Code Sections identified in
California Labor Code section 2699.5 as amended, the California Private
Attorneys General Act (Labor Code section 2698, et seq.), and federal, state
and local law concerning wage-hour requirements, wage payment and meal or rest
periods, including claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act. …   To
ensure disputes are subject to this grievance procedure in accordance with the
intended scope of coverage set forth herein, Statutory Disputes also include
any contract, tort or common law claim concerning the matters addressed in the
foregoing laws.”  (Heermance Decl., Ex.
A, p. 63.)  
The 2022-2026 CBA requires arbitration of “all
employee claims or disputes concerning violations of, or arising under Wage
Order 16 …, the California Labor Code Sections identified in California Labor Code
section 2699.5 as amended, all derivative claims under California Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq., all associated penalties, and federal,
state and local law concerning wage-hour requirements, wage payment and meal or
rest periods, including claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act. … Statutory
Disputes also include any contract, tort or common law claim concerning the matters
addressed in the foregoing laws.”  (Heermance
Decl., Ex. B, p. 64.)  The agreement
further provides, “In addition to the claims listed above, the parties have
also agreed to provide for final and binding arbitration of any and all claims
that could be asserted under all local, state and federal anti-discrimination
laws, including but not limited to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act,
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and
the California Family Rights Act.  All
claims for discrimination, harassment or retaliation in employment…or any other
basis that is protected under any of those laws, as well as all related or
similar claims (including but not limited to those for wrongful termination in violation
of public policy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, violation of 42
U.S.C. section 1981, and retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5),
shall be resolved exclusively under and in accordance with the procedure for
settlement of grievances and disputes set forth in this Appendix C to the
Agreement and not in a court of law.”  (Id.,
pp. 64-65.)  
These provisions specifically require arbitration of
statutory and tort claims.  In contrast,
in Mendez, the arbitration agreement generically required arbitration of
undefined “grievances” (220 Cal.App.4th at p. 538), and separately had “general
reference to complying with and abiding by all state and local discrimination
laws” but did not “explicitly incorporate[] any of the provisions of
FEHA.”  (Id. at p. 545.)  
The CBAs’ arbitration provisions require plaintiff
to arbitrate all 11 causes of action alleged in the complaint.
Labor
Code § 229
Plaintiff argues his claims are not
arbitrable under Labor Code section 229, which provides, “Actions to enforce
the provisions of this article for the collection of due and unpaid wages
claimed by an individual may be maintained without regard to the existence of
any private agreement to arbitrate.”  
Defendants establish the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) applies and therefore preempts that section.  “In matters in which the FAA applies, it
preempts Labor Code section 229, requiring
arbitration of claims that otherwise could be resolved in court.”  (Performance Team Freight
Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1240.)  “The FAA
governs arbitration provisions in contracts that involve interstate commerce.”  (Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.)  The Supreme Court of the United States has
“interpreted the term ‘involving commerce’ in the FAA as the functional
equivalent of the more familiar term ‘affecting commerce’—words of art that
ordinarily signal the broadest permissible exercise of Congress’ Commerce
Clause power.  [Citation.]  Because the statute provides for ‘the
enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the Commerce
Clause,’ [citation], it is perfectly clear that the FAA encompasses a wider
range of transactions than those actually ‘in commerce’—that is, ‘within the
flow of interstate commerce.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Citizens Bank v.
Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 56.)  “Congress’ Commerce Clause power ‘may be
exercised in individual cases without showing any specific effect upon
interstate commerce’ if in the aggregate the economic activity in question
would represent ‘a general practice ... subject to federal control.’ ”  (Id. at pp. 56-57.)
Benjamin
Heermance, the Chief Financial Officer of defendant CrossTown Electrical &
Data, Inc., states, “CrossTown is an electrical contractor specializing in
installation of electrical and ITS infrastructure, fiber optics, copper,
wireless communications, and closed circuit television systems for the benefit
of any entity or individual whether in state or out of state.”  (Heermance Decl., ¶ 1.)  That is a general practice impacting
interstate commerce and is subject to federal control.  The FAA applies.  It preempts Labor Code section 229.
Public Injunctive
Relief
            Plaintiff
also contends his claims are not arbitrable because they seek public injunctive
relief.  California courts have
recognized a rule that “bars
arbitration of claims for public injunctive relief.”  (Clifford v. Quest Software Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 745, 751.)  This
rule does not apply for two reasons. 
First, as with Labor Code section 229, the FAA also “preempts the … restriction
on arbitrability” of claims for public injunctive relief.  (Id. at p. 752.)  Second, the rule “does not bar
arbitration of a UCL claim for private injunctive relief or restitution.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s complaint purports to seek
“public injunctive relief” (Comp., prayer, ¶ 25), but it is not a
representative action on behalf of anyone other than plaintiff.  Even if it were, an injunction that “would
benefit [the employer’s] current employees … is not ‘public’ injunctive relief”
that falls within this exemption.  (Clifford,
at p. 754.)  It would only redress
injury “ ‘to a group of individuals similarly situated to the plaintiff.’
”  (Ibid.)
Unconscionability
            Finally, plaintiff
contends the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  “The burden of proving unconscionability
rests upon the party asserting it.”  (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126 (OTO).)  This defense to enforcing an arbitration
agreement requires both procedural and substantive unconscionability, using a
sliding scale.  (Id. at p.
125.)   “Procedural unconscionability focuses on the
elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Serafin
v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)
            Plaintiff
shows no procedural unconscionability.  “A procedural unconscionability analysis ‘begins
with an inquiry into whether the contract is one of adhesion.’ ”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)  “An adhesive contract is standardized,
generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with superior
bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff does not establish this threshold
requirement.  The arbitration provision
is in two CBAs.  The point of collective
bargaining is to put employees and employers on a more equal footing when it
comes to negotiating terms of employment. 
Plaintiff relies on authority about agreements between individual
employees and employers.  He cites no
authority finding a collectively bargained arbitration provision was
procedurally unconscionable.  
Assuming plaintiff established any procedural
unconscionability, it would be minimal.  “By
itself …  adhesion establishes only a
‘low’ degree of procedural unconscionability.” 
(Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 907.)  Furthermore, any substantively unconscionable
provision could be severed.  “The strong legislative and judicial
preference is to sever the offending term and enforce the balance of the
agreement” unless the agreement is “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Lange
v. Monster Energy Company (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 436, 453, internal quotes, citations, and alterations omitted.)    
Disposition  
Defendants CrossTown Electrical & Data, Inc., Justin
Adkins, Eric Hudson, and Alex Zepeda’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  
Plaintiff
Eric Vasquez is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendants.  The court hereby stays the entire
action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.  The court hereby vacates the hearings
on plaintiff’s two motions to compel further discovery responses and on
defendants’ motion for protective order.