 Case Number:  24AHCV00205    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENASPlaintiff moves to quash Defendant’s deposition subpoena for the production of medical and billing records of Plaintiff.  The complaint alleges Plaintiff was visiting Toby Peters’ residence when she tripped and fell.  She sustained bodily injuries and property damage.  She sued the Estate of Toby Peters and the trustee for general negligence and premises liability.Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s motion is granted in part and denied in part.For medical and billing records, production of the records is limited to 10 years prior to the subject incident.  The scope of records sought are also limited to the body parts at issue, not the injuries at issue.As to insurance records, the Court agrees with the Reply papers that “Defendant is entitled to the records accrued as a result of the subject incident, from the date of loss to the present. . . . any records that do not pertain to the subject injuries are not directly relevant, and thus private.” (Reply, p. 5.)Legal Standard and AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 states, in pertinent part: If a subpoena requires … the production of books, documents, or other things … at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion … may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely…. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendant’s negligent, careless, and reckless maintenance of his place of residence and/or common areas caused the accident.  As a result, Plaintiff seeks compensation for wage loss, loss of use of property, property damage, hospital and medical expenses, general damages, loss of earning capacity, and other damages.  The other damages include—past and future—medical expenses, wage loss and loss of earning capacity, household services, incidental expenses, and pain and suffering.  (Compl., ¶ 11.)On September 3, 2024, Defendant served Deposition Subpoenas on Plaintiff’s medical providers and the California Department of Health Services Recovery Section/Medi-Cal.  (Motion, Exh. A)  Plaintiff immediately objected to the scope of the subpoenas, asserting that they were overly broad, invasive, and improperly sought information irrelevant to the injuries and claims at issue in the litigation.  (Motion, Exh. B.)  Plaintiff’s counsel raised concerns that the requests sought prior billing and confidential medical records unrelated to the specific body parts and injuries at issue, which constituted an invasion of privacy under California law.Plaintiff moves to quash Defendant’s deposition subpoena for medical and billing records of Plaintiff from the following facilities:1. CA Department of Health Services Recovery Section/Medi-Cal 2. San Gabriel Valley Medical Center3. San Gabriel Valley Medical Center – Billing 4. San Gabriel Valley Medical Center-ER Physician 5. San Gabriel Valley Medical Center – Radiology 6. San Gabriel Valley Medical Center/KC Tan MD Medical Corporation 7. Keyvan Bamshad DDS 8. Baldwin Park Injury Center 8. Diagnostic Imaging Network 9. Ronald E Bishop MD Inc 10. Los Angeles Center for Orthopedics 11. Plaza Surgical Center 12. Plaza Surgical Center – Billing 13. Full Range Spine & Ortho 14. Full Range Spine & Ortho – BillingThe motion is based on the grounds that Defendant’s subpoenas as written are overly broad as to time and subject matter, irrelevant, invade Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy, and represent an unnecessarily invasive fishing expedition.The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonably expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  (Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.)  The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure services, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interest or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id., at pp. 37-40.)  The court must then balance those competing considerations. (Id., at p. 40.) Medical records fall within the zone of privacy protected by the Constitution.  (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1; Jones v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 534, 548-549, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)  Individuals have an expectation that medical history is kept private to preclude humiliation of the patient that might follow disclosures of his ailments.  (Bd. of Medical Quality Assurance v. Gherardini (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 669, 678-679, disapproved on other grounds by Williams, supra.)Plaintiff contends that the subpoenas are overly broad in time and scope, seeking records beyond the injuries and claims at issue in this litigation.  Plaintiff emphasizes the constitutional right to privacy and argues that the subpoenas represent an invasive fishing expedition.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not demonstrated a compelling need for the requested records, nor have they shown that the subpoenas are narrowly tailored to the claims in this case.  Further, Plaintiff highlights the speculative nature of the Defendant’s requests, which do not justify an invasion of privacy rights. In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s broad claims for damages necessitate similarly broad discovery.  They assert that the subpoenas are limited to the body parts at issue and the last 10 years.  Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s medical records are necessary for a meaningful defense and right to a fair trial.  Defendants posit that by making claims for damages, Plaintiff has waived the right to claim that the relevant medical records are privileged.  They argue that the Plaintiff cannot make serious allegations without affording the Defendant an opportunity to test their truth.The reply asserts that a subpoena’s inquiry “should be limited to only those medical records pertaining to Plaintiff’s injuries sustained in this litigation and treatment rendered to those body parts.  Plaintiff sustained injuries to her [] spine, lower back with radiation/numbness in left thigh and left leg, SI joint, left elbow pain with multiple bruises, right knee pain with bruises, right shoulder pain and tooth/mouth injury because of the subject incident.  Therefore, the inquiry should be limited to the injuries sustained.”  (Reply, p. 4.)Where a party seeks to discover documents subject to the constitutional right to privacy or protected by a statutory privilege, it is improper to “order discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been met.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 556.)  Rather, the court must balance the privacy interest against the countervailing interest served by disclosure.  (Id., at p. 552 [citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th 35, 37-40).)  Any intrusion on the right to privacy “should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its objective.”  (Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1855, overruled in part on other grounds by William, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557, fn. 8.)Here, records demonstrating Plaintiff’s physical health are relevant to determine the existence, cause, and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries, and whether some other cause may be attributable to the alleged past and future pain and suffering.  (See Compl., ¶ 11.)  It would be difficult—if not impossible—for Defendant to defend against the allegations in the complaint, particularly claims for damages, if Defendant was blocked from obtaining Plaintiff’s physical medical history.  Plaintiff’s concerns regarding the overbreadth of the subpoenas and the potential for invasion of privacy are valid.  The Court must, therefore, ensure that any disclosure is narrowly circumscribed and proceeds in the least intrusive manner possible.  The Court determines that records limited to 10 years prior to the incident and to the body parts at issue achieve this balance.  ConclusionPlaintiff’s motion is granted in part and denied in part as set forth above.Moving Party is to give notice.