 Case Number:  23STCV18497    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENSE COUNSEL’S MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSELThe case involves breach of lease and guaranty.  Defendant Jason Arrow’s counsel moves to be relieved as counsel.  Attorney Aaron B. Fairchild moves on the grounds that “a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship has occurred, making further representation untenable.”Tentative RulingThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Jason Arrow filed by Attorney Aaron Fairchild is GRANTED. Legal Analysis “The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The Court should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).)Counsel for Defendant Arrow, Attorney Aaron Fairchild, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) and California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362.  A declaration on Judicial Council Form MC-052 accompanies the motion, as required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, stating: This motion is made on the grounds that a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship has occurred, making further representation untenable.  Due to attorney-client privilege, specific details regarding the specific nature of the breakdown cannot be disclosed in this motion.  In the event that the court desires further information to ascertain the good faith basis for this motion and for withdrawal, it is respectfully requested that the court have an in camera hearing outside of the presence of all other parties so that the specific facts demonstrating good cause for this withdrawal may be demonstrated to the court.  (Manfredi & Levine v. Superio[r] Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th, 1136-1137.)Proof of service of the motion was served by mail on Defendant Arrow and by electronic service on counsel for Plaintiff and Defendants on November 4, 2024. No oppositions have been filed.The Court finds good cause to grant the request to be relieved as counsel.  Defendant Arrow will not be prejudiced if counsel’s motion is granted.  There is sufficient time for Defendant Arrow to engage new counsel and/or request a continuance before the next hearing, a Trial Setting Conference on January 29, 2025.  Counsel properly noted the remaining hearings in his MC-052 form.ConclusionThe Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Jason Arrow by Attorney Aaron Fairchild is granted.  Counsel is ordered to file proof of service of the signed MC-053 on Fairchild and all other parties within five court days after the date of this order.