  Case Number:  24STCV03482    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ZOILA MAGALY CURCIN CHEGUEN,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
EMPLOYER’S OUTSOURCING, LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 24STCV03482
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January
  2, 2025
 Calendar Number: 2



 
Plaintiff Zoila Magaly Curcin Cheguen (“Plaintiff”) has
filed four motions to compel against defendant Izzuz Partners, Inc.
(“Defendant”).  The Court grants three of
the motions:  (1) the motion to compel
further responses to form interrogatories-general, set one; (2) the motion to
compel further responses to request for production, set one; and (3) the motion
to compel initial response to request for production set two and special
interrogatories set one. With respect to this discovery, Defendant shall serve  supplemental responses or initial responses
are due within 30 days of this order.
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions on these
three motion in the total amount of $2,580. 
Defendant shall pay this amount within 30 days of this order.
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel form
interrogatories-employment and denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions with
respect to this motion.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice.
 
I.                  
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories-General, Set One
 
Plaintiff seeks to
compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories-General, Set One
from Defendant.  Plaintiff also requests
sanctions in the amount of $3,360. 
 
Defendant has not
opposed the motion.  
 
Plaintiff moves to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1, which asks for
information about Defendant’s insurance policy. Defendant merely responded,
“Responding Party uses PEO for its insurance, Employers Outsourcing,” but did
not provide the requested information in subsections (a) through (g). The Court
agrees that Plaintiff is entitled to this information. 
 
Defendant shall provide
amended responses within 30 days of notice of this order.  
 
The Court grants
Plaintiff’s sanctions request in the amount of $660.  This represents one hour of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s time and the filing fee. 
Defendant shall pay this amount directly to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 day of this order.
 
II.              
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves to compel
further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
from Defendant. Plaintiff also requests sanctions in the amount of $3,360.
 
Defendant does not oppose
the motion. 
 
The Court grants the motion
as follows:
 
Request Nos. 1-6, 10-16,
20, 24, 27, 32-33
 
Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant refers Plaintiff to “Exhibit A” in response, but Exhibit A is the
entirety of Defendant’s document production, and Defendant does not identify
which documents respond to each individual request. 
 
Documents must be sorted
and labeled to correspond with the categories in the document demand. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.280(a); see Pollock v. Super. Ct. (Schuster) (2023)
93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1359.) 
 
Within 30 days, Defendant
must sort and label the documents to correspond with the categories in the
document demands. 
 
Request Nos. 7-9, 17-19,
21-23, 26, 28-31
 
Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant states that it has “made an internal search and has reviewed its
files and is not able to produce responsive documents,” which does not comport
with the requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. 
 
With regard to document requests, a
response expressing an inability to comply shall state that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry was made to locate the items, and the reason for an
inability to comply, including that the item never existed, was lost or stolen,
was destroyed, or is not in respondent’s possession, along with the identity
and address of anyone believed to have the document. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230.)
 
Within 30 days, Defendant must
provide responses that comply with the discovery code.  
 
Request Nos. 25, 34, 35
 
Defendant did not respond
or object to Requests for Production, Nos. 25, 34, and 35.  Defendant must do so within 30 days and
produce all responsive documents. 
 
Sanctions
 
The Court awards $1260 in sanctions for this motion.  This represents two hours of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s time and a $60 filing fee. 
Defendant shall pay this amount directly to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days. 
 
III.           
Motion to
Compel Initial Response to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two and
Special Interrogatories, Set One

Plaintiff seeks to compel
initial responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two
and Special Interrogatories, Set One. The plaintiff also requests sanctions of $2460.

 
Defendant does not oppose
the motion.
 
Here, Plaintiff served
Defendant the Special Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two on September 25, 2024, by email. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A,
B.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff had until October
28, 2024, to respond timely. However, as of filing these motions, no responses
have been provided. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant’s motion to
compel responses to special interrogatories is granted pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.290. Defendant must serve verified responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set Two without objections, within thirty
(30) days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel responses to the requests for production of documents is
granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300. Defendant must
serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents,
Set Two, without objections, within thirty (30) days of this order, along with
all responsive documents.
The Court grants
Plaintiff’s sanctions request in the amount of $660.  This represents one hour of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s time and the filing fee. 
Defendant shall pay this amount directly to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 day of this order.
 
IV.           
Motion to Compel Further Reponses to Plaintiff’s
Employment Form Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s
Employment Form Interrogatories, Set One. The plaintiff also requests sanctions
in the amount of $3,360. 
 
Defendant does not oppose the motion. 
 
The Court denies the motion and the request for
sanction because Plaintiff has failed to file a separate statement. When no separate
statement is filed with a discovery motion, the matter may be ordered off
calendar. (BP Alaska Exploration, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1270; see also Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345.)    