 Case Number:  21STCV41392    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Serge Svetnoy,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV41392




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Rust Movie Productions LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Renewed Motion to Stay
Moving Party: Defendants Alexander R. Baldwin III
and El Dorado Pictures, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Serge Svetnoy
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STAY IS GRANTED IN PART. THE CASE
IS STAYED AS TO BALDWIN AND EL DORADO PICTURES ONLY. THE COURT WILL SET AN
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE CONCERNING THE STAY IN APPROXIMATELY 180 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
On April 23, 2023, the First Judicial District Attorney’s Office
for the State of New Mexico in Santa Fe dismissed pending criminal charges
against Defendant Baldwin without prejudice, and stated that the “investigation
is active and on-going.” On September 15, 2023 this Court denied a motion to
stay brought by Defendants Baldwin and El Dorado Pictures. The Court noted at
that time that there were no pending criminal charges against Baldwin, and
Defendants had provided no information about the status of any criminal
investigation or when any investigation may be concluded. 
Defendants now renew their motion for stay. Defendants state that on
October 17, 2023 special prosecutors in New Mexico “announced that they were
again bringing criminal charges against Baldwin.” A grand jury reportedly has
been convened; to date no criminal charges have been brought. 
Courts consider five
factors when determining whether a case’s circumstances and competing interests
warrant a stay: (1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously
with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice
to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the
proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the
management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the
interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest
of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation. Avant! Corp. v.
Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 876, 887-89 (citations and internal
quotation marks omitted).
 
The Court has
considered each of the factors. Most salient for Defendants is that the ongoing
grand jury proceedings in New Mexico and the renewed possibility of criminal
charges against Baldwin implicate his Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination in this action. Statements made by Baldwin in this case – at
a deposition, for example – could be used against him in the criminal
proceedings; conversely, asserting his Fifth Amendment right could be used
against him in this civil case. Either way, the prejudice to Baldwin could be
extreme. Protecting a party’s constitutional right is “paramount.” Pacers,
Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1984) 162 Cal. App. 3d 686, 690; see also S.E.C. v.
Nicholas (C.D. Cal. 2008) 569 F. Supp. 2d 1065, 1070. 
 
Plaintiff has an
interest in moving this case forward against all Defendants, and the public has
an interest in the prompt and fair resolution of all court proceedings related
to this incident, both criminal and civil.  There is little risk at this time that a stay as
to Baldwin and El Dorado Pictures will result in lost evidence or faded
memories. The balance of the competing interests requires a stay.  
 
The Court will stay the
case temporarily as to Baldwin and El Dorado Pictures; the Court will set an
Order to Show Cause concerning the stay in approximately 180 days to
re-evaluate the status of possible criminal proceedings against Baldwin. The
case will move forward as to the other Defendants.
 