 Case Number:  22TRCV01439    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
IBETH
  JENNIFER MEZA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01439




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Ibeth Jennifer Meza
Responding
Party:                  Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Motion
to Compel the Deposition Attendance and Production of Documents by Defendant’s
Person(s) Most Qualified
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant Honda is
ordered to produce a Person(s) Most Qualified along with associated document
production within ten days.
The Court
orders sanctions against defendant and defendant’s attorney of record and in
favor of plaintiff in the amount of $2160 to be paid within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, plaintiff Ibeth
Jennifer Meza filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Company for
violations of statutory obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
            On March 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
            On November 15, 2023, defendant
filed a substitution of attorney.
            Trial is set for July 17, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
Ibeth Jennifer Meza requests that the Court compel the deposition of defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) along with
associated document production.
The
complaint alleges that on March 11, 2020, plaintiff purchased a 2020 Honda
Civic from Honda of the Desert.  The
subject vehicle has suffered from nonconformities to warranty, including
electrical defects, gauge cluster defects, instrument cluster defects,
speedometer defects, tachometer defects, transmission defects, and engine
defects.  Defendant Honda has been unable
and/or has refused to conform the subject vehicle to the applicable express and
implied warranties under the Song Beverly Act after a reasonable number of
attempts.  
Plaintiff
contends that before filing this lawsuit, plaintiff contacted Honda requesting
that Honda repurchase the subject vehicle because of a recurring electrical
issue where the speedometer would intermittently and erratically “jump” and
would incorrectly report the vehicle’s actual speed.  Plaintiff asserts that on at least one
occasion the speedometer incorrectly read “0” while the vehicle was moving at
freeway speeds.  Plaintiff argues that
“[d]espite clear safety and reliability concerns with the inaccurate readings,
Honda refused to repurchase the vehicle.”
Plaintiff
explains that on January 5, 2023, she served a notice of deposition and
document demand for Honda’s PMQ, for February 3, 2023.  Honda served objections on January 27, 2023,
and “invited” plaintiff’s counsel to contact Honda’s counsel to “coordinate the
rescheduling” of the deposition. 
Plaintiff asserts that plaintiff’s counsel made repeated efforts to
“coordinate the rescheduling” of the deposition, including on January 16, 19,
26, and February 1, 2024.  Plaintiff
contends that Honda has refused to produce the witness for deposition before
the discovery cut-off and trial. 
Plaintiff also argues good cause for the production of documents at the
deposition.
In
opposition, Honda contends that it has not refused to produce its PMQ for
deposition.  Honda asserts that Honda’s
prior counsel “timely and properly objected” to plaintiff’s “unilateral notice
of deposition.”  Honda’s current counsel
“has made it clear that AHM can and will produce its PMQ witness for deposition
on June 7, 2024, which is the only date available prior to trial.”  Honda asserts that although plaintiff’s
counsel is unavailable on June 7, plaintiff has two firms representing her in
this matter and that plaintiff has not offered an explanation as to why another
attorney cannot cover the inspection of the vehicle or deposition.  Honda also explains that on March 29, 2024,
Honda’s handling attorney departed from the firm, and that there was no
handling attorney until April 9, 2024.
The Court
finds that plaintiff properly served a notice of deposition.  Defendant’s objections were without merit and
defendant failed to cooperate in rescheduling the PMQ deposition.  Defendant has acknowledged that it is not
refusing to produce a PMQ but offered only one date, which was the date of the
vehicle inspection, which had been demanded by defendant.  Plaintiff has also shown good cause for the
document production.  
The
motion is thus GRANTED.
 
Sanctions
“If a
motion under [Code of Civil Procedure, section 2025.450(a)] is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §2025.450(g)(1).

Plaintiff
requests $4595 ($550/hr., filing fee, $300 non-appearance) in sanctions against
defendant and its counsel of record Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough,
LLP.  The Court finds that $2160 ($450/hr.
x 4 hrs., $300 non-appearance fee, $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be
incurred against defendant.
 
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered
to produce for deposition its Person(s) Most Qualified and the associated
documents within ten days.
The Court
orders that defendant pay to plaintiff a monetary sanction in the amount of $2160,
within thirty days. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.