  Case Number:  22STCV23642    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CYNTHIA
  CONSTANTINO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:  
 


 
22STCV23642




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JIM
  DELURGIO, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Jim Delurgio and Elizabeth Delurgio
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Cynthia Constantino
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication
as to the first and second causes of action is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On July 21, 2022, plaintiff Cynthia
Constantino filed a complaint against Jim Delurgio and Elizabeth Delurgio for
(1) spite fence (Civil Code §841.1) and (2) intentional private nuisance (Civil
Code §3479).
On December 12, 2022, plaintiff
filed a FAC.
            On April 20, 2023, the court denied
defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119. 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467. 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c). 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants
Jim Delurgio and Elizabeth Delurgio request that the Court enter summary
judgment in their favor and against plaintiff pursuant to CCP §437c on the
ground that there is no triable issue of material fact and defendants are entitled
to judgment as a matter of law.
            In
the alternative, defendants request summary adjudication in their favor as to
the first and second causes of action.
The FAC
alleges that plaintiff resides at 513 Camino De Encanto, Torrance. Defendants
reside at property directly behind plaintiff, located at 209 Via El Toro,
Torrance. The properties are adjoining parcels, separated by a cinder block
wall, and situated just blocks from the Pacific Ocean in the lower Riviera area
of Torrance. The area is subject to the Hillside Overlay/View Protection Zone
created by Torrance. Plaintiff has owned the Encanto property since 1999.
Defendants bought their property in 2005. For all the years that plaintiff
lived in her house, before defendants moved into their house, plaintiff always
and continuously enjoyed blue and whitewater views of the ocean, as well as
views of the beaches, mountains, and city views, including city lights.
Plaintiff also enjoyed airflow into her property from the west in the form of
cooling ocean breezes that served to cool her home as said breezes are a
natural form of air conditioning keeping her home from overheating,
particularly during hot and humid months. Plaintiff also enjoyed natural light
coming into her home, as well as blue sky horizon and spectacular sunsets from
the evening setting sun.
Plaintiff
further alleges that it is known by property owners/occupants in the
neighborhood, including defendants, that the various views and airflow breezes
are a major part of the comfort and enjoyment of said homes as well as the
value upon the properties. The city of Torrance has ordained that structures
should not impair views, light, airflow and that each/all of the factors should
not be obstructed by foliage/vegetation that negatively affect neighboring
properties and their occupants/residents.
The FAC
further alleges that defendants have purposely and intentionally placed, all
along the common rear wall of the subject adjoining properties, in a row and
next to said dividing wall, acting as a de facto fence or fence-like structure,
shrub/tree foliage/vegetation that has been purposely allowed to unnecessarily
exceed ten feet in height, and even higher. Said foliage/vegetation include a
type of honeysuckle shrub and bird of paradise trees. Said shrubs and trees
have been purposely allowed by defendants to grow out of control, unmaintained
and untrimmed, even after plaintiff repeatedly requested that defendants trim
the offending foliage/vegetation to the level of the adjoining common rear wall
of the properties. Defendants have maliciously planted, erected, and maintained
at unnecessary heights the existing foliage for the purpose of annoying,
vexing, and irritating plaintiff and knowing that their actions have caused
great harm to plaintiff’s enjoyment of her property. Defendants have stated to plaintiff
and to plaintiff’s neighbors on Encanto “that defendants would act to
eliminate, obliterate and destroy with foliage/vegetation the views, light, and
airflow of plaintiff and her neighbors such that they would lose same.” As a
direct result of defendants’ malicious, spiteful, intentional, and purposeful
actions in planting/erecting/maintaining their shrubs/trees/foliage/vegetation
unnecessarily exceeding ten feet in height, plaintiff has been injured in her
comfort and enjoyment of her property. All of plaintiff’s views have been
eliminated. In place of such views is a de facto wall/fence structure of
shrubs/trees/foliage. Further, defendant Jim Delurgio has also engaged in sham,
phony, and pretend trimming of the offending foliage along the common dividing
wall all-the-while taunting, mocking, jeering, and laughing at plaintiff while
in fact not trimming anything at all.
                        Objections
            The
Court rules on defendants’ objections as follows:  SUSTAINED as to Nos. 1, 9, 11 (undated
photo); OVERRULED as to Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.
First cause of action for spite
fence (Civil Code §841.1)
Civil Code §841.4 states: “Any
fence or other structure in the nature of a fence unnecessarily exceeding 10
feet in height maliciously erected or maintained for the purpose of annoying
the owner or occupant of adjoining property is a private nuisance.  Any owner or occupant of adjoining property
injured either in his comfort or the enjoyment of his estate by such nuisance
may enforce the remedies against its continuance prescribed in Title 3, Part 3,
Division 4 of this code.” 
“[T]he intent to annoy the neighbor
need not be the sole purpose for building or maintaining the fence . . . but it
must at least be the ‘dominant’ purpose.”  Wilson v. Handley (2002) 97 Cal. App.
4th 1301, 1312-13 (citation omitted).
A row of trees can be a “structure
in the nature of a fence” for purposes of Civil Code §841.4. See Vanderpol
v. Starr (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 385, 389.
The cause of action for spite fence
includes a “malice” element.
Defendants argue that plaintiff
cannot establish the elements of a cause of action for spite fence because the
shrubbery height is well below the statutory height required for a spite fence
and there is no showing of malice or intent to annoy plaintiff or cause
plaintiff harm. 
Defendants present evidence that
they have resided continuously since 2006 at 209 Via El Toro, Redondo
Beach.  Defendants assert that plaintiff
and defendants’ properties are located within the Hillside Overlay District of
the City of Torrance.  Ordinance No. 3813
establishes a process by which real property owners may restore or preserve
view equity within the immediate vicinity of their property.  An advisory opinion dated March 13, 2019 in
Case No. VEC18-00003 referred to plaintiff as “View Seeker” and defendants as
“Vegetation Owner.”  George Gonzalez, a
consulting arborist, conducted a site inspection at defendants’ property on
January 23, 2019, during which the “vegetation in the backyard was inspected,
measured and photographed to determine the height of the hedge/vine and extent
of view obstruction.”  He conducted a
subsequent site inspection of plaintiff’s property on February 11, 2019 “to
determine the extent the neighboring vegetation is impacting [plaintiff’s] view
corridor.”  The Gonzalez report noted
that at the time of the inspection, the shrubbery had “an average height of
approximately 7 feet, along the length of the property line wall of
approximately 80 feet.”  He noted that
“at the time of the inspection, the shrub was in pruned condition and extended
approximately 6-9 inches above the property line wall.”   He also stated that at the time of the
inspection, a Giant Bird of Paradise tree on defendants’ property “was pruned
to a height of approximately 8 feet.”  
Defendants also assert that a
cinderblock wall separates the parties’ properties in the middle of both
property lines.  The subject shrubbery
extends over middle of both parties’ property lines such that it is on both
plaintiff’s and defendants’ properties. 
The portion of the shrubbery on defendants’ property is trimmed and
maintained at a lower height than the portion of the shrubbery on plaintiff’s
property.  Defendants explain that they
do not trim the portion of the shrubbery on plaintiff’s property since
plaintiff is permitted to trim and maintain the shrubbery on plaintiff’s
property, citing to a letter dated July 15, 2010, where defendant Jim Delurgio
stated, “please feel free to trim any portion of the bushes that cross onto
your property” and that trimming the shrubbery has “destroyed the privacy
between our properties.”  Defendants
contend that they have maintained the shrubbery within a few inches of, or
below the height of the shrubbery at the time of Gonzalez’ inspection in
January 2019, i.e., seven feet, and since the time of the inspection and
continuing presently, below the statutory height required for a spite fence
(ten feet).  See Jim Delurgio decl.
Defendants further assert that
plaintiff has made certain admissions that negate plaintiff’s claims, including
that plaintiff testified that the contents of defendants’ letters to plaintiff
were “usually something about privacy” and that she, and not defendants, have
allowed the shrubbery to grow to a height that exceeds the height of the
shrubbery on plaintiff’s property.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that there are triable issues of material fact including as to the nature of
defendants’ foliage/hedge, height of the foliage/hedge, location/control of the
foliage/hedge, necessity/purpose of the foliage/hedge, and question of
malicious intent/motive of defendants. 
Plaintiff argues that the height of the hedge/foliage exceeds ten feet
in height, and that witnesses estimate the current height of the hedge to be
between 11’ to 15’ in height.  Plaintiff
also asserts that defendants’ repeated measurement made in 2019 is “very
misleading.”  As to malice, plaintiff
contends that defendant Jim Delurgio made threats to his neighbors, in public,
that he would “obliterate” their views with foliage, and that the threats were
corroborated with multiple witnesses. 
Plaintiff presents the declaration of Jose Zamora, plaintiff’s gardener
for the past twenty-five years.  He
estimates that the honeysuckle shrub to be at well over 10’ in height, measured
from the grass level of the Constantino yard.” 
He states that “[f]rom what I have seen, the base of the shrub is
another four feet to five feet below the bottom of the wall on his side of the
property, for a total shrub height of about 14-15 feet” and last saw the shrub
and its height on March 6, 2024.  Jose
Zamora decl.  She also presents the
declaration of James Corrazini, who currently resides with plaintiff.  He states that all along the cinder block
wall, and emanating and growing from the Delurgio property is a honeysuckle
shrub that, from the back yard of Constantino, is close to 11’ in height to his
“best estimate.”  He states that from what
he has “personally seen and felt,” the shrub blocks all views of Constantino to
the west, including blue and white water views, beach sand views, Santa Monica
Bay views, Santa Monica mountain views, and night city lights from Redondo
Beach to Malibu.  He also states that it
blocks ocean breezes and natural light. 
See also Linda Gohata decl., estimating “tall and thick hedge” to be 13’
to 15’ tall; Judy English decl., estimating shrub to be “well over 10’ in
height and even closer to 11’ while standing in the back yard of the
Constantino house.”  
As to malice, plaintiff presents
the declarations of neighbors and friends who heard defendant stating that he
was going to build a single-story house, grow what he wanted and “completely
obliterate your ocean view” in 2011/2012. 
See Judy Brunetti decl., Judy English decl., John Marcone decl.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that defendants have not met
their burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the elements under
Civil Code §841.4.  The Court notes that
the report cited by defendants was from 2019, about five years ago.  Defendants have not provided sufficient
evidence that the shrubbery was under ten feet when the complaint was filed or
currently.  Defendants present two
photographs taken by defendant on August 24, 2022, that purportedly depict the
subject shrubbery but do not indicate the height.  Defendants object to the numerous
declarations presented by plaintiff but do not present any declaration from a
purported expert who has measured both sides and the shrubbery on the wall in
its present state.  Defendants
acknowledge that the height of defendants’ shrubbery on plaintiff’s side or on
the wall is higher than what is in defendants’ yard and that the shrubbery
grows along the cinder block wall.  In
any event, plaintiff presents substantial evidence to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to the height of the shrub. 
As for the element of “malice,” there is a triable issue of material
fact.  Defendants contend that the shrub
is for privacy but also there is evidence of remarks he made of his intention
to block views, albeit in 2012. 
Second cause of action for
intentional private nuisance (Civil Code §3479)
            Under
Civil Code §3479, “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not
limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square,
street, or highway, is a nuisance.”
            Defendants
reiterate their arguments and evidence as under the first cause of action.  Defendants argue that plaintiff has failed to
identify any evidence to support that foliage on defendants’ property has
rendered plaintiff’s home darker, colder in the winter, and hotter in the
summer or that she suffered substantial actual damage.  Defendants argue that any interference with
her use and enjoyment of her property caused by the subject foliage is from her
own doing, because defendants have told plaintiff numerous times that plaintiff
is permitted to cut the portion of the subject foliage that extends onto their
property.  Defendants further contend
that plaintiff has failed to demonstrate an unreasonable substantial
interference with her use and enjoyment of land.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that there are triable issues of material fact as
to interference with plaintiff’s land and free use of her property so as to
interfere with her comfortable enjoyment of life, reduction in value of
plaintiff’s property, and nature of the annoyance and discomfort suffered by
plaintiff.  She presents the declaration
of real estate appraiser Donald Chambers who opines that defendants’ foliage
diminishes the value of plaintiff’s property in the sum of $680,000.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that defendants have not met their burden of showing that plaintiff cannot
establish the elements under Civil Code §3479. 
In any event, plaintiff has provided substantial evidence to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to whether defendants’ foliage has interfered
with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of her property.
            Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication is DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
The motion for summary adjudication as to the first and second causes of
action is DENIED.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.