 Case Number:  23TRCV03828    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ALICIA
  CAMARENA MILLAN, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03828




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 12,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Alicia Camarena Millan and Arturo Camarena
Sibrian
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth
cause of action in the complaint.  
The motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendant is ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2023, plaintiffs
Alicia Camarena Millan and Arturo Camarena Sibrian filed a complaint against
American Honda Motor Company, Inc. for violations of Song Beverly Act and
fraudulent inducement – concealment.
            On May 13, 2024, the court denied
defendant’s request to transfer venue.
            On May 14, 2024, a stipulation and
protective order was entered.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant American Honda demurs to the
fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment on the ground that
it fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that on August
2, 2020, plaintiffs entered a warranty contract with defendant Honda regarding
a 2020 Honda Civic.  Complaint, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission
warranty.  Id., ¶7.
5th cause of action for
fraudulent inducement - concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.
Under this cause of action, the
complaint alleges that the subject vehicle contains a defective computerized
driver-assisting safety system, which includes adaptive cruise control, lane
departure warnings and steering inputs, and autonomous braking (meant to avoid
front-end collisions by detecting vehicle speed and the speed of other vehicles
and objects on the road – and can automatically deploy the brakes to avoid a
front-end collision).  Honda calls this
computerized driver-assisting safety system, “Honda Sensing.”  It relies on a radar sensor, an interior
camera, along with computers and other technology.  The autonomous braking system within Honda
Sensing is called Collision Mitigation Braking System (or CMBS).  Complaint, ¶45.  The Sensing system suffers from a defect that
causes the various subsystems within it to malfunction dangerously while the
vehicles are driven.  This defect impedes
the systems’ ability to reliably and accurately detect and appropriately
respond to conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the adaptive
cruise control, the lane-departure system, and CMBS.  Id., ¶46. 
As a result of the Sensing defect, Honda vehicles brake abruptly even
though there is nothing around that risks a collision, warning lights display
without explanation, brakes deploy seemingly randomly, and parts of the system
malfunction.  These malfunctions pose a
safety risk.  Additionally, the speed of
the vehicle may abruptly change and warnings may distract the driver.  Id., ¶47. 
Honda’s response has been that no repairs are available.  Id., ¶48. 
Honda knew of the Sensing Defect prior to sale of the subject vehicle to
plaintiffs, based on pre-production and post-production testing, numerous
customer complaints, warranty claims data compiled from Honda’s network of
dealers, testing conducted by Honda in response to these complaints, as well as
warranty repair and part replacements data received by Honda.  Id., ¶50. 
Despite Honda’s awareness of the Sensing Defect, it has not found a
solution for it.  Instead, Honda simply
replaces defective parts with equally defective parts or performs ineffective
software updates thereby leaving consumers and those they share the road with,
exposed to the safety risks.  Id., ¶51.  Defendant concealed the Sensing Defect.  Id., ¶53.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient because it does not have a duty of disclosure to
plaintiffs and that it did not have “exclusive knowledge.”  Defendant further argues that plaintiffs fail
to plead with particularity.  Defendant
also asserts that the claim is barred by the economic loss doctrine.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they have pled all the elements sufficiently.  They also argue, citing to Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc., that the economic loss rule does not bar the
claim and arises from conduct wholly distinct from Song-Beverly Act violations.  Plaintiffs further contend that the Sensing defect
is a material fact, which poses safety risks. 
Also, plaintiffs assert, defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts.  Plaintiffs further argue that a
“transactional relationship” is not required under California law for the
manufacturer to have a duty to disclose.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the allegations are
sufficient to support the elements at the pleading stage for fraudulent
concealment.  Plaintiff alleges that
defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact.  See Complaint, ¶¶53, 54, 56, 63, 64.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant had a duty
to disclose the fact.  See Complaint, ¶62.  See OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P.
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 859
(“Under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only
to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has
reason to expect that the item will be resold.”); see also Khan v. Shiley
Inc. (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 848, 858 (“[A] manufacturer of a product may
be liable for fraud when it conceals material product information from
potential users.”).  Plaintiff alleges
that defendant intentionally concealed the fact with an intent to defraud.  See Complaint, ¶63.  The Court can infer that defendant placed the
vehicle into the stream of commerce, presumably for profit.  Plaintiff was unaware of the fact and he
would not have purchased the vehicle, had he known of such defects and
sustained damages.  See Complaint, ¶¶64-66.
The Court also finds that the
economic loss rule does not bar the cause of action.  “[W]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale
are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his
remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only 'economic'
losses.'  This doctrine hinges on a
distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale of goods for
commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by commercial and
contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products to individual
consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by
resort to the law of torts.  The economic
loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss
due to disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and
beyond a broken contractual promise.  Quite
simply, the economic loss rule 'prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of
tort from dissolving one into the other.” 
Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979,
988 (citations omitted).  “[W]hen one
party commits a fraud during the contract formation or performance, the injured
party may recover in both contract and tort.” 
Harris v. Atlantic Richfield (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th
70, 78 (citation omitted).  See also Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 543, 552 (“Tort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where . . . the contract was fraudulently induced.
. . . The duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely
independent of the contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional
and intended to harm.”) (citations omitted) and Fassberg Construction Co. v.
Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th
720, 757 (“A plaintiff seeking to recover damages for economic loss caused by
fraud must show that the plaintiff actually relied on the defendant’s
misrepresentation or nondisclosure, that the reliance was reasonable, and that
the plaintiff suffered damages as a result.”) (citations omitted).  Thus, tort damages are permitted in contract
cases where the contract has been fraudulently induced, which is what plaintiff
alleges.  Plaintiffs allege that had the
true facts been disclosed, they would not have entered into the contract at
all, which is not the same as a mere breach of contract.
Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the Court
strike the prayer for punitive damages.
The motion is DENIED in light of
the ruling on the demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action.  
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment.
            The motion to strike is DENIED.
            Defendant is ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
Since the claim for fraudulent
inducement – concealment is not a Song-Beverly claim, which will support an
award of attorney’s fees under that Act, plaintiffs’ counsel is ordered to make
an appropriate notation in their time keeping records that the time devoted to
addressing the demurrer and motion to strike that attacked that claim must be
so noted for purposes of any future request for attorney’s fees.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.