 Case Number:  24STCV09768    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Law Offices of
  Phoenix Thottam,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV09768




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




JPMorgan Chase
  Bank, N.A.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: August
8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
 
Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
Motion to Strike
Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: 
Defendant JP Morgan
Chase Bank, N.A.
 
Responding Party: 
Plaintiff Law Offices
of Phoenix Thottam
 
T/R:     The demurrer to the second, third, seventh,
and eighth causes of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
            The
demurrer to the remaining causes of action is sustained with twenty (20) days’
leave to amend.
 
            The
motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, oppositions and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff the Law
Offices of Phoenix Thottam sued defendant JP Morgan Chase Bank, National
Association on April 17, 2024 and filed its operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on May 1, 2024. Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action in its
FAC:
 
            1.         Negligence,
            2.         Gross Negligence,
            3.         Mistake,
            4.         Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
            5.         Negligent Misrepresentation,
            6.         Unfair Business Practices,
            7.         Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress,
            8.         Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress,
            9.         Breach of Contract,
            10.       Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, and
            11.       Tortious Interference with Economic
Relationships.
 
            Plaintiff, a law firm, alleges
it maintains its client trust fund account with Defendant, a bank. (FAC, 3:2-11.)
Defendant repeatedly misinformed Plaintiff about the status of checks deposited
into the account and its consequent available balance. (Id., 4:2-11.) As
a result, Plaintiff overdrew its client trust account. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
and its clients have suffered harm as a result. (Id., 7:16-10:11.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Legal Standards
 
            When considering a demurrer, a court reads the
allegations stated in the challenged pleading liberally and in context, and
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v.
Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The court treats all facts alleged in the complaint
as true. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School District (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) 
 
      Motions to
strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) In granting a motion to strike made
under Code of Civil Procedure section 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Id. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial
allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (Id. § 431.10.) The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id. § 436(b).)
 
B.
Evidentiary Rulings
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of a prior ruling in this case and a ruling by the United States District Court
for the Central District of California. Both requests are denied. Only the fact
that the rulings were made is noticeable, and the fact that the rulings were
made is irrelevant.
 
            Defendant also submits the
declaration of one of its representatives in support of its demurrer. The
declaration is stricken. The inquiry upon demurrer is confined to the four
corners of the complaint and noticeable materials. (Hahn v. Mirda, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th, at p. 747.)
 
C.    Demurrer
 
            Defendant
demurs to all causes of action in the FAC, arguing each fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.
 
            Second,
Third, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action for Gross Negligence, Mistake,
Intentional Infliction, and Negligent Infliction
 
            These
causes of action in the FAC lack any apparent factual or legal support.
 
            As
to the second and third causes of action: neither gross negligence nor
“mistake” is a cause of action under California law. (See Erikkson v.
Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 826, 856, fn. 18; Code Civ. Proc. § 338(d)
[referring to mistake].)
 
As to the seventh and eighth
causes of action: an intentional infliction claim requires extreme or
outrageous conduct. (Bosetti
v. United States Life Ins. Co. in City of New York (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
1208, 1242.) A negligent infliction claim requires some sort
of “special relationship” between the tortfeasor and the victim. (Christen v. Superior
Court (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 884.) Both require a plaintiff to plead and prove emotional
distress. (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073; Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.)
 
This is a dispute between two
business entities over alleged banking errors. There are no facts in the FAC
that suggest Defendant might be liable on any emotional-distress theory, and
Plaintiff has made no showing that it might plead such facts. 
 
The demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s second, third, seventh, and eighth
causes of action.
 
Economic Loss Rule: First, Fourth, Fifth, and Eleventh Causes of Action
for Negligence, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Tortious Interference
 
            “[T]he economic loss
rule provides: [W]here a purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated
because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be
in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses.”  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979, 988 [internal
quotations omitted].)  The rule is based on the premise that “[a]
breach of contract remedy assumes that the parties to a contract can negotiate
the risk of loss occasioned by a breach”, and the law should not impose an
additional tort remedy on top of their agreement. (Id., at p. 992.) It
is a “judicially created doctrine that bars recovery in negligence for pure
economic losses when such claims would disrupt the parties’ private ordering,
render contracts less reliable as a means of organizing commercial
relationships, and stifle the development of contract law.” (Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 915.)
 
            Plaintiff’s claims arise from a
mishandling of the funds in a bank account. The handling of those funds is
governed by the parties’ Deposit Account Agreement (“DAA”), which Plaintiff
attached to its complaint and which appears to cover all of Defendant’s
obligations related to the account. Plaintiff has not stated facts that
demonstrate it suffered cognizable non-economic injury. As pleaded, Plaintiff’s
claims are barred by the economic loss doctrine.
 
            The economic loss doctrine is not
absolute, and Plaintiff might feasibly reframe his claims in a manner that
survives the rule, so the Court sustains as to these causes of action with
leave.
 
            Sixth
Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices
 
            California’s Unfair Competition Law
(“UCL”) “addresses ‘unfair competition,’ which ‘ . . . include[s]
any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice . . . .” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) Its
purpose ‘is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting fair
competition in commercial markets for goods and services.’ [Citation.]  ‘Actions for relief” under the UCL may be
brought by various government officials and ‘by a person who has suffered
injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair
competition.’ [Citation.]” (McGill v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th
945, 954.)
 
Because the UCL is written in the disjunctive, ‘ “it
establishes three varieties of unfair competition – acts or practices which are
unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” ’ [Citation.]” (Adhav v. Midway, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 970.)
 
Plaintiff has not pleaded that Defendant engaged in any
practices injurious to consumers or deceitful to the public and has not stated
a claim for unfair or fraudulent practices. Because the demurrer has largely
been sustained, it is unclear on what violation of the law, if any, he bases an
“unlawful” claim under the UCL. 
 
The demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is
sustained for uncertainty, with leave to amend.
 
Ninth and Tenth Causes
of Action for Breach of Contract and Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
 
                        Ninth Cause of Action
for Breach of Contract
 
            The elements of breach of contract
are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse, (3) breach, and
(4) injury. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
            Defendant contends Plaintiff has not
pleaded his claim “specifically”. Specificity in pleading is not required for a
contract claim, and Defendant’s case law does not suggest otherwise. Richman
v. Hartley, supra, was decided on summary judgment and does not
control pleading standards; in Bentley v. Mountain (1942) 51 Cal.App.2d
95, the plaintiff pleaded that contracts were simply “violated”, with no
supporting facts at all. Plaintiff here identifies the conduct he claims
breached the DAA.
 
            Levy v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-8 is relevant here. In Levy the
plaintiff sued his insurer, alleging it failed to pay to repair his car up to “‘industry
standards’” as he contended their contract required. (Levy, supra,
at p. 6.) The court found plaintiff’s term “industry standards” was
inconsistent with the terms of the contract, which required restoration to
“pre-loss condition”. (Ibid.) The trial court allowed the plaintiff
multiple opportunities to “demonstrate a link between State Farm’s alleged
violation of ‘industry standards and the insurance contracts State Farm
issued”. (Ibid.) The plaintiff could not do so, and the court sustained
State Farm’s demurrer without leave.
 
            As in Levy, there is a tension
between Plaintiff’s allegations and the contract he attached to his FAC, which
divests Defendant of responsibility for the sorts of overdraft errors Plaintiff
has alleged. (See FAC, Ex. G, at pp. 8, 14 [sections III(A)(5), III(E)(1)].) The
Court does not agree with Defendant that the tension is fatal to Plaintiff’s
claims. But the provisions are problematic enough that Plaintiff must clarify. 
 
Also, as in Levy, Plaintiff’s claims implicate various
statutes and regulations – the UCC, in particular – as well as the parties’
contract. Levy suggests that where Plaintiff might state claims under
many statutory or regulatory theories, but also brings claims based on the
parties’ (complex) contract, he may be required to clarify the basis of his
claims more thoroughly at the pleading stage.
 
            The demurrer is sustained with leave
to amend as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for breach of contract.
 
                        Tenth
Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant
 
“ ‘The [implied] covenant
of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract.’
(Citation.) The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’ (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031–1032.)
 
As discussed above, it is unclear which of Plaintiff’s
allegations it considers a breach of express contract and which it considers a
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Because of this
lack of clarity between the breach of contract and breach of covenant actions,
the tenth cause of action fails for uncertainty.
 
The demurrer to Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action is
sustained for uncertainty, with leave to amend.           
 
D.        Motion
to Strike
 
            The
demurrer having been sustained, the motion to strike is denied as moot.


 