  Case Number:  22STCV34320    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARKELLA THANOU, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV34320
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 17, 2024



 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs Markella Thanou’s and Amalia Thanou’s complaint is sustained
with 10 days leave to amend.
Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s motion to strike is denied as moot. 
Plaintiff
Markella Thanou’s motion for trial preference is continued to June 10, 2024, at 8 a.m. 
Plaintiff’s supplemental brief is due by May 24, 2024, and Defendant’s
opposition is due by May 31, 2024.
 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (“CSMC”) (“Defendant”) demurs
to Plaintiffs Markella
Thanou (“Markella”) and Amalia Thanou’s (“Amalia”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1.)  Defendant also moves unopposed to
strike portions of the Complaint. 
(Notice of MTS, pgs. 1-2.)
Plaintiff Markella moves for an order granting her trial
preference.  (Notice Trial Preference,
pg. 1; C.C.P. §§ 36(a), (c), (e),
(f); CRC, Rule 3.1335.)
 
Background
This action arises out of Defendant’s diagnosis, treatment, and
care of Demetrios Fotinatos (“Fotinatos”) (“Decedent”).  (Complaint, at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to take
reasonable care in performing Decedent’s admission to the hospital, for which
he should have never been admitted, and subsequently treating him with Xanax,
on or about July 24, 2021, when he was over the age limit for being given Xanax
and Defendant was told that he had an adverse reaction to Xanax and he was not supposed
to take it.  (Complaint, at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege that prior to Decedent’s
admission, he would walk three miles a day, and he became a zombie after being
in Defendant’s care and never recovered to be how he was before being admitted.  (Complaint, at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege as a result of Defendant’s
negligence, Decedent suffered injuries to his person and was transferred to
rehab where he was misfed while lying down, which ultimately resulted in his
death on October 24, 2021.  (Complaint,
at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege as a result
of Defendant’s negligence, he was subjected to continuous and unimaginable pain
and suffering and being unnecessarily subjected to take prescribed strong medication
because of the failure to diagnose him properly.  (Complaint, at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent’s health
deteriorated after that and ultimately resulted in his death.  (Complaint, at pg. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege Decedent sustained various
losses, including but not limited to pain, suffering, emotional distress.
 
Procedural History
Plaintiffs filed their operative Complaint in pro per on October
25, 2022, alleging a single cause of action for general negligence. 
On October 27, 2022, the court denied Amalia’s request for fee
waiver and ordered that she pay filing fees within ten days.  Amalia did not pay the fees.  On November 16, 2022, the clerk voided the
Complaint, pursuant to Government Code §68634(g), as to Amalia.
On October 26, 2023, this Court dismissed the Complaint without
prejudice pursuant to C.C.P. §583.150.
On October 27, 2023, attorney Kingsley Opia-Enwemuche (“Opia-Enwemuche”)
substituted in as counsel of record for Markella. Thereafter, Opia-Enwemuche
filed a motion to set aside and vacate the dismissal pursuant to C.C.P. §473.
On March 6, 2024, this Court granted Markella’s motion to set
aside/vacate the dismissal as to Markella. 
(3/6/24 Minute Order.)
Defendant filed its demurrer and motion to strike on April 11,
2024.  Markella filed her opposition to
the demurrer on May 15, 2024.  Defendant
filed its reply to the demurrer on May 15, 2024.
Markella filed her motion for trial preference on April 15,
2024.  Defendant filed its opposition to
the motion for trial preference on May 6, 2024. 
As of the date of this hearing no reply has been filed.
 
A.  
Defendant’s Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ causes of action for professional
negligence and general negligence on the basis the causes of action fail to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action and are uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
           Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel declares that on March 22, 2024, he attempted
to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel by letter.  (Decl. of Moulin ¶9.)  Defendant’s counsel declares that on April 3,
2024, he met and conferred on the telephone with Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss
the complaint, demurrer, motion to strike, and the possibility of an amended
pleading.  (See Decl. of Moulin ¶9.)  Defendant’s counsel declares that on to date
no amended pleading has been served or filed, necessitating the instant
demurrer and motion to strike.  (See
Decl. of Moulin ¶10.)  Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
           
           Failure to
State a Claim
           Professional
Negligence
“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are:
(1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage.”  (Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)
“On causation, the plaintiff must establish ‘it is more probable
than not the negligent act was a cause-in-fact of the plaintiff’s injury.’ ‘A
possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable
causal explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a
result of its action.’ ‘[C]ausation in actions arising from medical negligence
must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based on competent
expert testimony, i.e., something more than a “50-50 possibility.”’ ‘[T]he
evidence must be sufficient to allow the jury to infer that in the absence of
the defendant’s negligence, there was a reasonable medical probability the
plaintiff would have obtained a better result.’” (Belfiore-Braman v.
Rotenberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 234, 247, internal citations omitted.)
“The Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (MICRA) contains
numerous provisions effecting substantial changes in negligence actions against
health care providers, including a limitation on noneconomic damages,
elimination of the collateral source rule as well as preclusion of subrogation
in most instances, and authorization for periodic payments of future damages in
excess of $50,000. While in each instance the statutory scheme has altered a
significant aspect of claims for medical malpractice, such as the measure of
the defendant’s liability for damages or the admissibility of evidence, the
fundamental substance of such actions on the issues of duty, standard of care,
breach, and causation remains unaffected.”  (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital
Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992, 999.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege a duty of care owed by Defendant to
Plaintiffs; Plaintiffs merely allege a duty of care owed by Defendant to
Decedent.  An essential element of a
cause of action for medical negligence is a physician-patient relationship giving
rise to a duty of care.  (Mero v.
Sadoff (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1471.)  A third party does not ordinarily have
standing to bring a claim asserting a violation of someone else’s rights. (Powers
v. Ohio (1991) 499 U.S. 400, 410; People ex rel. Becerra v. Superior
Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 486, 500-501.) 
Plaintiffs failed to assert survivor claims, which would give them
standing to assert a cause of action for medical negligence.  (C.C.P. §377.30; Grant v. McAuliffe
(1953) 41 Cal.2d 859; Brenner v. Universal Health Services of Rancho
Springs, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 589.) 

Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action
is sustained with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.  
Defendant’s Motion to Strike
In
light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike is
denied as moot.
 
C.  
Plaintiff Markella’s Motion for Trial
Preference
Legal
Standard
Parties
who are 70 years of age or older (or who reach that age during pendency of the
action) may be entitled to preference if they establish to the court’s
satisfaction that: (1) they have a “substantial interest in the action as a
whole”; and (2) their health is “such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”  (C.C.P. §36(a), (c)(2).)
The
preference motion must be supported by a “declaration of the moving party” (or
presumably, the moving party’s attorney) “that all essential parties have been
served with process or have appeared.”  (C.C.P.
§36(c)(1).)
Trial
priority is not mandatory and absolute merely because one of the parties is age
70. The court has discretion to determine the extent of that party’s interest
and find as a matter of fact the risk posed of that party’s death or incapacity
if trial is delayed.  (C.C.P. § 36(a).)
 
Discussion
           Plaintiff Markella’s motion and
supporting declaration fails to demonstrate Markella is entitled to a motion
for trial preference.  Markella’s
attorney declares Markella is currently 93 years old.  (Decl. of Opia-Enwemuche ¶5.)  However, admissible evidence is still
required as to the party’s age (e.g., declarations by party or admissible
records showing he or she is over 70).  Markella’s
attorney’s declaration is not sufficient for this purpose, and the Declaration
of Opia-Enwemuche fails to attach the noted Exhibit 1 of her identification
card.  (See Decl. of Opia-Enwemuche
¶5.)  The Court therefore is inclined to
continue the instant motion to allow Markella’s attorney to file an amended
declaration with the necessary evidentiary support to demonstrate Markella’s
advanced age.
Markella’s
attorney declares she is currently in ill health as she suffers numerous
illnesses such as congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease,
Hypertension, has a pacemaker, has Hyperlipidemia, and suffers from Atrial
fibrillation, for which she is currently on various medications.  (Decl. of Opia-Enwemuche ¶6.)  Markella’s attorney declares on information
and belief that Markella has a grave heart ailment and now has Cirrhosis of the
liver, due to her heart failure.  (Decl.
of Opia-Enwemuche ¶8.)  Markella’s
attorney’s evidence supporting these facts would sufficiently supplement admissible
evidence of Markella’s advanced age.
Accordingly,
Markella’s motion is continued to allow for supplemental briefing on this
matter.
 
Conclusion
Markella’s
motion is continued to June 10, 2024, at 8 a.m. 
Plaintiff’s supplemental brief is due by May 24, 2024, and Defendant’s
opposition is due by May 31, 2024.
Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  