  Case Number:  22STCV02673    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV02673




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Beverly Hills Unified School District




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Miella
  Sneiderman 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Kimberly Morosi 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts in Support
3.      Index of Evidence in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
and Statement of Additional Undisputed Facts
3.      Compendium of Evidence in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      Reply
2.      Responses to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
3.      Evidentiary Objections
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
June 24, 2022, Plaintiff Miella
Sneiderman (“Plaintiff”), a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, filed
the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Beverly
Hills Unified School District, Hawthorne Elementary School, and Does 1 to 100
for dangerous condition of public property and negligence. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges that on May 6,
2021, she fell over a retaining wall at Hawthorne Elementary School, which
caused injuries. (FAC ¶ 10.) Plaintiff contends there were no barriers to
prevent someone from falling over or adequate warnings. (Ibid.) Against
Defendant Beverly Hills Unified School District (“Defendant”), Plaintiff
asserts a single cause of action for dangerous condition of public property
under Government Code section 835. 
 
            Defendant now moves for summary
judgment arguing Plaintiff lacks evidence that she fell due to the retaining
wall, the alleged condition was trivial or minor, the condition was not in a
“dangerous condition” within the meaning of section 835, and the design
immunity under Government Code section 830.6 applies.
 
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies.
            
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “The defendant may, but need not,
present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause
of action.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 855.) Alternatively,
“[t]he defendant may […] present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admission by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.” (Id.)¿This must be supported with evidence
“including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’” (Id.
at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)].)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder
to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Declaration of
Philip Rosescu:
 
            Objection No. 1: The Court sustains the
objection as to Rosescu’s opinions that “on the date of the incident, the
retaining wall at issue constituted a dangerous condition of the property,” and
“[a] vertical fall of this magnitude onto concrete can cause serious injury or
even death.”
 
            Objection No. 2: Sustained.
 
            Objection No. 3: Overruled.
 
            Objection No. 4: Overruled.
 
Deposition
Testimony of Jessica Gusow:
 
            Objection Nos. 1-7: Overruled.
 
Deposition
Testimony of Carrie Ucer:
 
            Objection Nos. 1-4: Overruled.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and
either:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the
exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused
by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San
Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) 
 
To hold a public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused
by the dangerous condition, (3) that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4)
that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the
public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition
or the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.)
                                     
            A. Evidence of the Fall 
 
            Defendant first argues that Plaintiff
cannot present evidence establishing how she fell, and therefore cannot
establish a dangerous condition of public property.
 
Here, the following is undisputed. At
Hawthorne Elementary School in Beverly Hills, there is a planter
wall located in front of the school which is curved and situated on the
northside of the campus. (UMF 56.) A mature tree sits in-between the wall and
the street. To the right of the wall, the ground recedes as the tree and
planter wall are on an obvious downward slope. (UMF 58.) The height of the wall
from the ground at the bottom of the slope varies in height depending on the
location. (UMF 59.) As such, the side of the planter wall that faces the street
is over two feet, but because it was constructed on ground that is sloping
downward, the backside of the wall is at a greater depth. 
 
The incident took place on May 6, 2021,
after school at Hawthorne Elementary. Plaintiff was in the second grade and was
released directly to her mother, Ms. Sneiderman, who was waiting in the front
of the school. (UMF 8, 12–13.) As they were walking to their car, Plaintiff and
her mother stopped to chat with other parents and children from the school.
(UMF 15.) While Ms. Sneiderman was talking to the other parents,
Plaintiff walked over to several classmates standing on the grass, who asked
her if she wanted to play tag. (UMF 17.) At some point after that, the adults
were later taken to an area south of the tree and planter wall, where Plaintiff
was found lying in the grass. (UMF 19.) Later, paramedics arrived and took
Plaintiff to the hospital to treat her injuries. (UMF 22–23.) 
 
Defendant sets forth the following
additional facts:
 
-         
While
Plaintiff and Ms. Sneiderman were talking to the other parents and children in
front of the school, Ms. Sneiderman had her back to the school
and was not paying attention to Miella. (UMF 16.) 
-         
The parents did not notice what the children
were doing as they were talking. (UMF 18.) 
-         
None of the parents at the scene witnessed the
accident. (UMF 24.)
-         
No one observed Miella or any of the children on
the wall prior to the accident. (UMF 25.) 
-         
When Miella was deposed, she had no explanation
for how she fell. (UMF 26.) 
-         
Miella denied jumping on, off, or over the wall.
(UMF 27.) 
-         
Miella denied standing on the wall. (UMF 28.)
-         
Miella denied sitting on the wall. (UMF 29.) 
-         
Miella denied running into the wall or off the
wall. (UMF 30.)
-         
After breaking during the deposition, Miella was
able to confirm that she was standing on the grass between the wall and the
tree just before her accident. (UMF 31.) 
-         
Miella acknowledged that she was not being
chased before her fall. (UMF 32.)
-         
Miella could not recall how she fell or what
caused her to fall down. (UMF 35.)
-         
Miella testified that she fell onto the
grass on the opposite or backside of the wall, north of the tree. (UMF 36.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony does not fully describe how the injury took place. In her deposition,
Plaintiff repeatedly testified that she did not know how she hurt herself. (Morosi
Decl., Exh. A, Pl. Depo. 98:11–15; 99:4–16; 100:2–5.) She then stated she was
near the wall before her accident but not on it. She agreed that she was
running between the tree and the wall while playing tag, and then hurt her arm.
(Id., 101:4–13.) However, later in the deposition she testified that she
hurt her hand by falling off the wall. (Id., 104:5–10.) The following
exchange then took place:
 
“Q. I thought you just --
well, did you fall into the wall? 
A.
No. 
Q.
How did the wall have anything to do with how you hurt your right hand? 
A. Because on one side, it's like, an
inch or two and on the other side, it's a couple of feet. Q. Okay. 
A. Like, I wouldn't have known that
on the other side it was so tall. 
Q. Right. But how did you hurt your
hand on the wall? 
A. Just like I said, there's one inch
– one side is only a couple of inches and the other side is six feet.” 
(Exh. A, Pl. Depo. 104:11–25.)
 
            Shortly after, the following
exchange took place. 
 
“Q. Let me ask you another way. You
describe for me how it was when you were running that you hurt your right hand.

A. Because -- I might have been on
the wall, but I think it might be that I tried to, like, put my foot -- I think
I tried to get over it and then not knowing the other side was so tall
(indicating). 
Q. Did you try to jump over the wall?

A. No. 
Q. Okay. What makes you think that
you were on the wall before you hurt your right hand? 
MR. LALEZARI: Objection; calls for
speculation. 
THE WITNESS: I might have been on the
wall because I know that I went -- I know that I fell head first and I tried to
protect myself with my arm. 
BY MR. DUMONT: Q. Right. You fell off
the wall and you put your hands out to try to break your fall? 
A. Yes. 
Q. Okay. How did you get up on the
wall? 
A. I don't know.”
…
A. I’m not sure how I got up on the
wall. 
(Exh. A, Pl. Depo. 106:4–25.) 
 
In
this summary judgment proceeding, the Court does not weigh the evidence or
assess the credibility of witnesses. Here, although Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s testimony does not show how the injury took place, she did testify
that she fell over the wall. She also testified she hurt herself due to the discrepancy
in depth on either side of the wall. Therefore, Defendant fails to meet its
burden that Plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence about how the injury
took place or that the wall caused her injury. 
 
B. Causation: Notice and Negligent Act of Public Employee
 
A public entity is only
liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either creates the condition
or has actual or constructive notice of the condition.  (See Gov Code §835(a),(b).) 
 
A public entity
had actual notice of a dangerous condition if it had actual knowledge of the
existence of the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous
character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To establish actual notice,
‘[t]here must be some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the
particular dangerous condition in question’; ‘it is not enough to show that the
[public entity's] employees had a general knowledge’ that the condition can
sometimes occur. [Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.) 
 
Defendant offers the
following facts:
 
-         
There have been no prior accidents that have
occurred on Hawthorne’s campus that are of a similar nature to the accident
reported by Plaintiff in the operative complaint. (UMF 43.) 
-         
Prior to Plaintiff’s accident, no one had
contacted Principal Sarah Kaber or the PTA expressing concern about the area in
front of the school by the tree and planter wall. (UMF 44.) 
-         
Ms. Sneiderman and two of the parents on scene
at the time of Miella’s accident did not make any complaints about the planter
wall posing a danger to students prior to the incident. (UMF 45.) 
 
Plaintiff sets forth the following
facts:
 
-         
 Jessica Gusow, a parent of a student at
Hawthorne Elementary, was deposed and testified that she saw kids
sitting and standing on the retaining wall every day of the school year, mostly
after school. She also observed people including Lashanda (the school security
guard) telling kids to get off of the wall. Prior to the date of Plaintiff’s
fall, Ms. Gusow also observed kids playing behind the retaining wall and she
observed adults telling kids that were behind the retaining wall not to go into
that area. (PAMF 6–11.) 
-         
Sometimes Ms. Gusow observed the principal Ms.
Kaber telling kids to get off the wall. (PAMF 16.) 
-         
Ms. Ucer recalls seeing the security guard
Lashonda or Mr. Painter around the kids near the wall and the adults would tell
the kids to stay away from the wall or “stay off the wall.” The children were
also instructed not to be behind the wall. (PAMF 24.) 
-         
Ms. Ucer recalls seeing the “NO SEATING” writing
on the top of the wall prior to Miella’s accident. (PAMF 29.) 
 
Considering
the evidence and all reasonable inferences in the light most favorable to
Plaintiff, Plaintiff has established a triable issue of fact that Defendant
knew or should have known that the wall was a dangerous condition.
 
C. Dangerous Condition/Trivial Defect
 
The term “dangerous condition” means a “condition of
property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,¿trivial¿or
insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used
with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it¿will be
used.” (Gov. Code, § 830, subd. (a).)¿ “A condition is not a dangerous
condition within the meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court,
viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of
law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or
insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no
reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk
of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a
manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov.
Code, § 830.2.)  
 
“Thus, even though it is foreseeable that persons may use
public property without due care, a public entity may not be held liable for
failing to take precautions to protect such persons.”¿(Mathews v. City of
Cerritos¿(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384.)¿“The condition of the property
involved should create a ‘substantial risk’ of injury, for an undue burden
would be placed upon public entities if they were responsible for the repair of
all conditions creating any possibility of injury however remote that
possibility might be.”¿(Fredette¿v. City of Long Beach¿(1986) 187
Cal.App.3d 122, 130, fn. 5.) “The statutory definition of reasonably
foreseeable persons using the property with due care takes into consideration
the lower standard of care which is expected of children.” (Mathews, supra,
2 Cal.App.4th at 1385.) Children are “only required to exercise that degree of
care expected of children of like age, experience and intelligence.” (Cummings
v. Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 258, 263.)
 
“The existence of a dangerous condition ordinarily is a
question of fact, but the issue may be resolved as a matter of law if
reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.”¿(Peterson v. San
Francisco Comm. College Dist.¿(1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810.)¿ 
 
To determine whether a condition is¿trivial¿as a matter of
law, “[t]he legal analysis involves several steps. First, the court reviews
evidence regarding the type and size of the defect. If that preliminary
analysis reveals a¿trivial¿defect, the court considers evidence of any
additional factors such as the weather, lighting and visibility conditions at
the time of the accident, the existence of debris or obstructions, and
plaintiff’s knowledge of the area.¿If these additional factors do not indicate
the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person, the court
should deem the defect trivial as a matter of law. . .”¿(Stathoulis¿v. City
of Montebello¿(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 559, 567-568 [citing Fielder v.
City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 729].) 
 
More recently, in Stack v.
City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110, the Court of Appeal read
Government Code section 830.2 to require a more “holistic” approach, stating,
“[a]lthough we agree with the premise that the size of the defect is the
primary determinant of triviality, as discussed below, we modify the prevailing
two-step framework into a holistic, multi-factor analysis.” The first and most
important factor is the defect’s size. (Id.) The Court next
considers additional factors.  “Beyond size, additional factors courts
typically consider . . .: the nature and quality of the defect (including
whether it has jagged breaks or cracks); whether anything was obstructing or
concealing the defect (for instance, an object, debris, or other substance);
the lighting and weather conditions at the time of the incident; whether the
defect has caused other accidents; and plaintiff's familiarity with the
area.”  (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at 115.)  With
respect to the various foregoing factors, Stack held that “individual
familiarity is not a proper factor for consideration within the trivial defect
doctrine.” (Id. at p. 120.) 
 
Defendant argues the wall was not a
“dangerous condition”. Defendant sets forth the following facts: 
 
-         
During the 2020-2021 school year (when the
incident took place on May 6, 2021), Plaintiff Miella Sneiderman was a
second-grade student at Hawthorne. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Miella had been attending Hawthorne since the
first grade and was familiar with the campus. (UMF 9.)
-         
To the right of the wall, the ground recedes
down. (UMF 40.)
-         
There is no vegetation or anything on top of the
wall that obstructs any portion of the planter wall. (UMF 41.)
-         
The backside of the retaining wall is visible to
those walking in front of the school, particularly from the southside of the
campus in the northbound direction. (UMF 42.)
-         
There have been no prior accidents that have
occurred on Hawthorne’s campus that are of a similar nature to the accident
reported by Plaintiff in the operative complaint. (UMF 43.) 
-         
Prior to Plaintiff’s accident, no one had
contacted Principal Sarah Kaber or the PTA expressing concern about the area in
front of the school by the tree and planter wall. (UMF 44.) 
-         
Ms. Sneiderman and two of the parents on scene
at the time of Miella’s accident did not make any complaints about the planter
wall posing a danger to students prior to the incident. (UMF 45.)
-         
The other supervising parents on scene never
heard a parent raise concern about the planter wall during PTA meetings. (UMF
47.) 
-         
The wall was designed and constructed on the
existing slope to retain the root structure and protect the tree situation in
front of the school between the street and the new building that was being
constructed. (UMF 50.)
-         
Since the wall’s original construction, it has
not undergone any structural modifications. (UMF 53.)
-         
At the time of the accident, the wall was
painted white with red letters at the top that read “NO SEATING.” (UMF 54.)
-         
Facing the front of the school, the planter wall
rises more than two feet above the ground. (UMF 57.)
-         
The height of the wall from the ground at the
bottom of the slope varies in height depending on the location. (UMF 59.)
-         
There is nothing obstructing the ability to see
that the height of the backside of the wall is greater than the front of the
wall. (UMF 60.) 
-         
The backside of the planter wall is
visible to those walking in front of the school and in the northbound
direction. (UMF 61.)
Here, Defendant offers the declaration of its expert, Scott
Gaudineer, an architect, to opine on the design of the wall. Mr. Gaudineer
declares that “[f]acing the
front of the school, the wall rises almost two feet above-ground.” (Morosi
Decl., Exh. E, Gaudineer Decl. ¶ 11.) However, Defendant provides no
measurement of the depth of the wall on the backside. Since Plaintiff contends
the height difference between either side of the wall was a dangerous
condition, the heights of the wall are necessary to ascertain the size of the
defect. Defendant also produces limited information about the condition of the
wall on the day of the incident. 
On the other hand, Defendant produces
declarations from Hawthorne Elementary’s principal, Sarah Kaber, and Georgianne
Yonalty, the school’s office manager of thirty-one years, attesting to no prior
incidents regarding the wall. (Kaber Decl. ¶ 8; Yonalty Decl. ¶ 4.) It is also
undisputed that Plaintiff attended the school since the first grade and was
familiar with the campus. (See Pl. Resp. UMF 9.) 
However, given the limited information
provided, the Court cannot determine as a matter of law that the condition was
trivial or was not dangerous. As set forth above, Plaintiff has set forth evidence
of a “no seating” sign on the wall, as well as various warnings given to
children to stay off the wall. Although Defendant relies heavily on Mathews,
supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at 1385, where the court found that the “danger of
riding a bicycle down a very steep, wet, grassy hill is obvious from the appearance
of the property itself, even to children exercising a lower standard of due
care,” here, considering all reasonable inferences in the light most favorable
to Plaintiff, there remains a triable issue of fact regarding whether the
condition of the wall was apparent to children using it in a reasonably
foreseeable manner[1]
with due care.
D. Design Immunity
 
Lastly, Defendant argues it is immune under Government Code
section 830.6.
 
To prevail on the defense of design immunity, the following
three elements must be established: "(1) a causal relationship between the
plan or design and the accident, (2) discretionary approval of the plan or
design prior to construction, and (3) substantial evidence supporting the
reasonableness of the plan or design.” (Cornette v. Department of Transp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 63, 66; see Gov. Code, § 830.6.)¿ 
¿ 
Of the three elements, "[t]he
first two elements, causation and discretionary approval, may only be resolved
as issues of law if the facts are undisputed." (Grenier v. City of Irwindale
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 931, 940.) A defendant may rely on the complaint to
establish causation in the context of a design immunity defense. (Fuller v.
Dep't of Transp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1114.) To establish the second
element of discretionary approval, a defendant must show “approval in advance
of construction by the legislative body or officer exercising authority.” (Alvarez
v. State of California (1999) 79 Cal.App.4th 720, 734; Ramirez v. City
of Redondo Beach (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 515, 526.) As to the third element, Wyckoff
v. State¿(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 45, 50–51 provides:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The normal rules governing a¿motion¿for¿summary¿judgment, and
requiring its denial if any triable issue of fact appears, are not fully
applicable [to cases involving¿design¿immunity¿under¿Government Code section
830.6.]¿ For example, the defendant is not required to prove to the court that
the¿design¿or plan was in fact a reasonable one. Instead, the defendant is
merely required to adduce any ‘substantial evidence’ that a reasonable public
employee or legislative body could have approved the plan or¿design¿used
under¿[Government Code section] 830.6.¿Thus, when the defendant files
a¿motion¿for¿summary¿judgment, the existence of a possible conflict of
evidence, as shown by the proof submitted on the motion, will not create a
triable issue on this aspect of the defense that can defeat a summary judgment
. . . ." "We are not concerned with whether the evidence of
reasonableness is undisputed; the statute provides immunity when there is
substantial evidence of reasonableness, even if contradicted.”¿ 
 
Here, there is a causal relationship
between the design of the wall and Plaintiff’s injury because the FAC alleges
that due to the lack of barriers and warnings, and the drop on the backside,
Plaintiff fell over it and was hurt. (FAC ¶ 10.) 
 
Regarding the second element, Defendant
provides evidence that the plans were approved on November 22, 1966 by B.H.
Harden, a structural engineer with the State of California’s Department of
General Services, Office of Architecture and Construction, what is presently
the Department of the State Architect (“DSA”). (UMF 48; Gaudineer Decl. ¶ 14,
Exh. H.) This is undisputed by Plaintiff. (See Pl. Resp. UMF 48.) In
opposition, Plaintiff provides no evidence or argument regarding this element
and thus fails to show a triable issue of fact.  
 
Turning
to the last element, Defendant argues that the adoption of the plan was
reasonable based on the fact that they were approved. (Motion, 17.) Scott
Gaudineer also opined that at the time of the approval and the time of the
incident, the design of the retaining wall was reasonable and fully compliant
with the codes and standards of California in 1966. (Gaudineer Decl. ¶ 15–17.)  Further, he declared the wall “was designed and constructed to retain the
root structure and protect the tree situated in front of the school between the
street and the new building that was being constructed. The retaining wall was
also designed to allow for maintenance of this mature tree and its extensive
root system by allowing for proper drainage while also allowing the adjacent
building to be constructed without hindrance by the tree or its root system.
Additionally, the design allows for better drainage near the building and keeps
the water and earth away from it.” (Gaudineer Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the area
was not constructed according to the plans. Plaintiff’s expert, Philip L. Rosescu,
a licensed civil engineer, declares that the area around the backside of the
wall was intended to be landscaped with soil and shrubbery. (Rosescu Decl. ¶10.)
Plaintiff contends this would have reduced the fall hazard. (Id.; Opp.,
9.) Plaintiff contends that because the original design was not followed, (the
area behind the wall is cement and grass), the immunity claim fails. Plaintiff
also argues the wall was modified because “NO SEATING” was written on it.
(Opp., 9.) 
 
Additionally, Mr. Rosescu opines that under
the 1967 Building Code and 2007 Building Code, guard rails should have been
installed when the lower level was paved. (Rosescu Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff also
contends the plans offered by Defendant are incomplete and provides no measurement
or specifications of the subject wall. However, Defendant pointed to pages A-2,
A-5, C-1, and L-1 of the plans in exhibit H. (See Gaudineer Decl. ¶ 11; Def.
Index of Evid., pdf at pages 185, 188, 212.) These pages contain measurements
of the subject wall. 
 
The Court finds a triable issue of fact regarding
whether the affirmative defense of design immunity applies based on evidence
that the area was not constructed according to the plans. There is no evidence
regarding the failure to plant the shrubbery as indicated in the design, and
how this may impact the height differential, which is alleged to constitute the
dangerous condition. (See generally Castro v. City of Thousand Oaks
(2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1451.) Although Defendant argues that the original as
built design plans were for the retaining wall only, no expert testimony is
provided by Defendant regarding the lack of impact of the shrubs on the design
of the wall. (Reply at p. 9.) Moreover, Defendant has not established that the
lack of shrubs and the insertion of a concrete walkway is a “changed condition,”
rather than the original building of the area purportedly pursuant to the
design. Accordingly, Defendant has not met its burden of proof regarding the
applicability of design immunity.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Beverly Hills Unified School District’s motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 


