 Case Number:  23BBCV02125    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 17, 2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02125




 
MP:  


 
Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Hyundai Motor America (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Hyundai Motor
America (Hyundai) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2020 Hyundai Santa Fe (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint
alleges several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion to compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for the Production of
Documents (RFPD). Hyundai opposes the motion and Plaintiffs’ reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  If the moving party
has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the
objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95
Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On December 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs served their RFPD on Hyundai. (Stoliker Decl. ¶ 17.) On January
23, 2024, Hyundai served responses consisting of objections only. (Stoliker
Decl. ¶ 20, Exh. 6.) Hyundai’s primary objection to each RFPD request was
that the discovery requests were premature in light of Hyundai’s intent to
compel arbitration. (Id.) Hyundai filed its motion to compel arbitration
and request for stay on January 16, 2024, several days before rendering their
discovery responses. Hyundai’s motion was initially set to be heard on February
23, 2024, but was continued on the Court’s own motion to March 22, 2024. (See
February 23, 2024 Minute Order.) 
 
Plaintiffs state that they
attempted to meet and confer on December 20, 2023 about Electronically Stored
Information. (Stoliker Decl. ¶ 24, Exh. 7.) While the Court commends
preemptive cooperation on anticipated issues, it does not view a letter dated
on the same day as discovery demands as evidence of a good faith attempt to
meet and confer regarding the issues pending in this motion. Plaintiffs also
state they attempted to meet and confer regarding Hyundai’s actual responses on
February 14, 2024. (Stoliker Decl. Exh. 8.) Hyundai responded on February 21,
2024 that the discovery requests were premature in light of the pending motion
to compel arbitration. (Stoliker Decl. ¶ 27, Exh. 10.) Hyundai’s counsel
agreed in this response to extend the deadline for filing a motion to compel
further responses to three weeks after the motion to compel arbitration was
determined. (Id.) 
 
On March 12, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their motion to compel further responses. The Court had yet to
render any determination as to the merits of the motion to compel arbitration.
On March 22, 2024, the Court denied Hyundai’s motion to compel arbitration. On
April 9, 2024, Hyundai served supplemental responses to Plaintiffs’ RFPD
consisting of 791 pages of documents. (Mayo Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel states
they again attempted to meet and confer on March 12, 2024 regarding the
objections. (Stoliker Decl. Exh. 12.) 
This effort consisted of an email stating that unless Hyundai agreed to
provide supplemental responses, Plaintiffs would proceed with filing the
instant motion. 
 
Discussion
 
As currently filed,
Plaintiffs’ motion requests an order compelling Hyundai’s further response to
RFPD Nos. 1, 2, 3, 7, 17, 20, 22, 24, 30, 35, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 49, 54, 56,
57, 66, 74, 76, 77, 78, 86, and 87. Hyundai responded to each of Plaintiffs’ 87
RFPD with the following: 
 
HMA [Hyundai] objects to this request because it is overly broad,
unduly burdensome, compound, and seeks information neither relevant nor
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and not
proportional to the needs of the case. HMA also objects to this request to the
extent it seeks information protected from disclosure by the attorney work
product doctrine or attorney-client privilege. HMA further objects to this
request because it is not full and complete in and of itself and contains
subparts or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question. Further objection
to the extent it seeks information that is proprietary, trade secrets, or
information invasive of the right of privacy. 
 
HMA further objects to this request because it would be unduly
burdensome to answer and does or may seek irrelevant information in light of
HMA’s pending Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action. Pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, this matter will be stayed
pending determination of the Motion. (See Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 188, 192 (“This statute [referring to
C.C.P. §1281.4] is clear and unambiguous; it requires that the action be stayed
while an application to arbitrate the subject matter of the action is pending
in a court of competent jurisdiction.”)
 
To the extent that
Plaintiffs now find Hyundai’s supplemental responses insufficient, such
responses are not the subject of the instant motion. Plaintiff filed and
briefed this motion based on the objection only responses Hyundai served on
February 14, 2024. Hyundai has subsequently served 791 pages of responsive
documents, a fact which Plaintiffs do not dispute. Regardless of the content of
the supplemental responses, Plaintiffs have not provided the Court with the
requisite information to determine what remains to be compelled. Plaintiffs
state in their reply that the supplemental responses are insufficient for
failure to include any WebDCS data. (Reply. p. 5.) The Court is without any
exhibits to examine the veracity of this claim. Despite Hyundai’s production of
791 pages of documents, Plaintiffs supplemental declaration contains none of
this production. Instead, Plaintiffs submit documents procured from other cases
or independently, none of which are evidence of Hyundai’s actual production.
Further, without a separate statement identifying the particular requests which
remain to compelled, the Court is left to guess at what RFPD remain
unsatisfied. 
 
The Court notes that the
above difficulties could have been entirely avoided has Plaintiffs waited until
the resolution of the motion to compel arbitration. Hyundai clearly signaled to
Plaintiffs that it would cooperate with discovery requests after the resolution
of the motion to compel arbitration and explicitly extended Plaintiffs’ time to
file a motion to compel further responses. (See Stoliker Decl. Exh. 10 “…we
look forward to working together amicably in any future discovery process
should the case not otherwise be ordered to arbitration.”) Instead, Plaintiffs
proceeded to file the instant motion before arbitration was decided and before
any substantive responses were provided. This has resulted in a motion to
compel further responses which is based on outdated objections only responses.
While Plaintiff may have been within their statutory right to file the motion
to compel further prior to the motion to compel arbitration, their actions have
resulted in the mooting of their own motion. 
 
Further, Plaintiffs’
argument that discovery matters were not stayed pending the resolution of the
motion to compel arbitration is unpersuasive. Hyundai cites to clear authority
providing that a trial court is required to stay an action while an application
to arbitrate the subject matter of the action is pending. (See Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 188,
193.) This authority derives directly from the language of C.C.P. § 1281.4
which reads as follows: 
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or
not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.
 
If an application has been made to a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to arbitrate a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application
for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy
is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to
arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.
 
If the issue which is the controversy subject to arbitration is
severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.
 
Plaintiffs cite to Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges in arguing that a stay on discovery matters was not
automatic and only occurs on the filing of a motion by the party seeking the
stay. (See Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199,
207.) Plaintiffs argument ignores the fact that Hyundai’s noticed motion
included a motion to stay proceedings. Plaintiffs’ reliance on Cardiff
Equities, Inc. v. Superior Court is similarly misplaced. Cardiff equities
concerned a situation in which an application for arbitration had already been
granted. (Cardiff Equities, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 1541, 1552.) The Cardiff decision exclusively examined the
first portion of C.C.P. § 1281.4, which concerns situations in which a court
has already ordered arbitration. (Id.) Plaintiffs rely on Cardiff to
establish that a stay can only be granted where arbitration has been
ordered. This assertion is necessarily contradictory to the plain language of
the second paragraph of C.C.P. § 1281.4. 
 
In short, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs’ filing of the instant motion while discovery matters ought to
have been stayed has resulted in a motion which is moot. Given the timing of
Plaintiffs’ filing and Hyundai’s subsequent production, the Court is unable to
determine the merits of Plaintiffs’ motion as filed. The Court is without the
information needed to evaluate what documents remain to be produced and to
which RFPD those documents are responsive. Accordingly, the motion to compel
further responses is DENIED without prejudice. Should Plaintiffs wish to refile
the motion addressing the merits of Hyundai’s supplemental production they are
within their rights to do so. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Ben and Nina Kass’
Motion to Compel Further Responses came on regularly
for hearing on May 17, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows:  
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFFS’ RFPD IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
THE COURT SETS A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE FOR
SEPTEMBER 4, 2024 AT 9:00 AM. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: May
17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 