  Case Number:  22STCV31531    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 17, 2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF PROCESS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV31531

 



MP:  


Vahe Avedian, Susanna Avedian, and
  Ghevon Avedian (Specially Appearing Defendants)




RP:  


None 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rhonda Koch-Strauss
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Vahe Avedian, Susanna Avedian, and
Ghevon Avedian (Defendants). Plaintiff and Defendants are neighbors, and this
suit arises from an altercation between them which took place on June 17, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants caused her unlawful arrest by the Crescenta Valley
Sheriff’s Office after she drove to Defendants’ house and asked them to stop
playing music. Plaintiff represents herself in this action. The Complaint
states causes of action for (1) Wrongful Imprisonment, (2) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (3) Malicious Prosecution, and (4) Slander. 
 
Before the Court are
three Motions to Quash Service of the Summons, one brought by each Defendant on
special appearance. The Court notes that this is the second time Motions to
Quash have been filed by Defendants. Prior to the transfer to this Court, three
Motions to Quash were granted as to the service on each Defendant. (See May 8,
2023 Minute Order.) In addition to granting the Motions to Quash, the prior
Court ordered the Proofs of Personal Service on each Defendant stricken. The
Court found that “Plaintiff failed to effectuate substituted service on any of
the Defendants.” (Id.) 
 
Defendants’ current
motions argue that Plaintiff has made no attempt to cure her defective service.
Plaintiff presents no opposition to any of these motions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations
marks and citation omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential.” 
(Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.)  Defendant’s
knowledge of the action does not dispense with statutory requirements for
service of summons.  (Kappel v. Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d
1457, 1466.) Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) §415.10 discusses the personal
service of a summons and complaint.  A
summons may also be mailed pursuant to CCP §415.30 along with two copies of the
notice of acknowledgement as set forth in CCP §415.30(b).  Service of the summons and complaint are
deemed complete the date the notice of acknowledgement is signed.
 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her” that results from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. §
418.10(a)(1).  
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
“When a
motion to quash is properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the
plaintiff to establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the
evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
Thus, when a defendant moved to quash service of the summons and complaint due
to insufficient service of process, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving
the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to
an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866,
868.)
 
“In
deciding whether service was valid, the statutory provisions regarding service
of process… should be liberally construed to effectuate service and uphold the
jurisdiction of the court if actual notice has been received by the defendant….”
(Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1436-1437 [internal quotations omitted].) “Thus, substantial compliance is
sufficient.” (Id. at 1437.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates
a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper but only if it complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs. (Id. at 1441-1442
[internal quotations and citation omitted].) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has submitted three Proofs of Personal Service as to each Defendant.
Each of these Proofs of Service is identical. The Proofs of Service state that
personal service was made upon each Defendant by Mark Strauss on September 29,
2022 and November 22, 2022 at 1940 Hilldale Drive La Canada, CA 91011. The Proofs of
Service are accompanied by the declaration of Mark Strauss attesting to the
same. 
 
A review of the previously stricken Proofs of Service shows
service on the exact same dates. It appears that Plaintiff has attempted no
service after the Court granted the previous motions to quash. In essence,
Plaintiff’s new Proofs of Service are recitations of the Proofs of Service that
were already found insufficient by Judge L. M. Hobbs. The only additional
information accompanying the new Proofs of Service is that Mark Strauss mailed
copies of the Summons and other documents to Defendants on May 12, 2023;
however, no notice of acknowledgment has been filed with the Court. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not upheld her burden of
proof on a motion to quash service. Plaintiff’s Proofs of Service only evidence
the attempts at service in September and November of 2022 which were already
found to be insufficient and ordered stricken. The additional evidence of the May
12, 2023 mailing does not constitute effective personal or substitute service. Plaintiff’s
subsequent mailing of documentation to Defendants does not rectify the issues
with the prior service.  Further,
Plaintiff’s failure to oppose this motion leaves the Court without additional
facts from which the validity of service can be determined.  
 
Accordingly,
the Motions to Quash Service are GRANTED. 
 
Vahe
Avedian’s Demurrer 
 
Vahe
Avedian filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint to be heard concurrently with
his Motion to Quash as permitted by C.C.P. § 418.10(e). Given that the Court
has granted Vahe Avedian’s Motion to Quash, his Demurrer to the Complaint is
MOOT. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Vahe Avedian, Susanna
Avedian, and Ghevon Avedian’s Motions to Quash Service of Summons came on regularly for hearing on May 17, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTIONS TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AS TO DEFENDANTS VAHE AVEDIAN, SUSANNA
AVEDIAN, AND GHEVON AVEDIAN ARE GRANTED. 
 
VAHE
AVEDIAN’S DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT IS MOOT. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: May
17, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 