 Case Number:  23BBCV02207    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 17, 2024

MOTION TO
BIFURCATE TRIAL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02207

 



MP:  


The
  People of the State of California acting by and through the Department of
  Transportation (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Apex
  Development, Inc. & Anthony Nowaid (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On September 25, 2023, The People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation, (Caltrans)
brought this action against Apex Development, Inc. (Apex), Anthony Nowaid
(Nowaid), Eriks Towing, The Habibi Shack, Challenger Trucking Express, Stone
Concrete Mix, and Valley Green Tree Services (collectively Defendants). This is
an unlawful detainer matter in which Caltrans seeks possession from Defendants of
the property located at 12398 Sheldon Street, Sun Valley, CA 91352 (Subject
Property). Some Defendants have been subsequently dismissed from this action,
but Apex and Nowaid remain. On November 11, 2023, Apex and Nowaid filed a
collective Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Before
the Court is motion to bifurcate the jury trial in this matter brought by
Caltrans. Jury Trial in this matter is currently set for May 28, 2024. No
Defendant has rendered a written opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
The Court
has the discretion to order bifurcation in furtherance of convenience, the ends
of justice, the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation, or to avoid
prejudice. (C.C.P. §§ 598, 1048(b).) 
 
Caltrans’
Request 
 
Caltrans seeks
to bifurcate the trial into two sections (1) a trial determining possession of
the property, and (2) a trial determining any resulting damages. Caltrans
states that Apex and Nowaid previously agreed to stipulate to bifurcation. The
Court suggested that such bifurcation be memorialized in a stipulation
presented to the Court. Caltrans states that, despite their earlier agreement,
Apex and Nowaid have not signed the stipulation to bifurcate. As a result,
Caltrans brings this motion. 
 
Discussion

 
Caltrans first
argues that bifurcation would promote the legislative goals of C.C.P. § 1170.5.
 C.C.P. § 1170.5 governs the conduct of
trials concerning unlawful detainer matters. As Caltrans notes, unlawful
detainer statutes such as C.C.P. § 1170.5 were enacted with the purpose of
providing an expeditious remedy for the recovery of possession of real
property. (See Larson v. City and County of San Francisco (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1297.) Caltrans also cites to C.C.P. § 1170.5 (a) which
provides:
 
If the defendant appears pursuant to Section
1170, trial of the proceeding shall be held not later than the 20th day
following the date that the request to set the time of the trial is made.
Judgment shall be entered thereon and, if the plaintiff prevails, a writ of
execution shall be issued immediately by the court upon the request of the
plaintiff.
 
The Court
is uncertain as to the purpose of invoking C.C.P. § 1170.5. As Caltrans notes,
trial for this matter has already been requested and set. This trial would
necessarily encompass both possession and damages issues. Caltrans is not
requesting that the possession trial be advanced to fit within the 20 days
provided by C.C.P. § 1170.5. Instead, Caltrans is requesting bifurcation
because a number of unresolved discovery issues have prevented them from
preparing for the damages phase of trial. Separating the issue of damages from
possession in this instance has less to do with the legislative purpose of
C.C.P. § 1170.5 and more to do with potential prejudice to Caltrans.
 
As
concerns prejudice, the motion contains little information about the
outstanding discovery issues. While the Court can glean some of this
information from the various motions that have come on for hearing in the last
few months, Caltrans has provided no additional information as to what is
required to prepare for the damages phase. Further, this motion to bifurcate
was filed on February 26, 2024. This was before the Court decided Caltrans’
motion to compel inspection of the premises and shortly after the Court
adjudicated a number of motions to compel Apex’s discovery responses. As it
currently stands the Court is unsure if the discovery issues at the time this
motion was filed have been resolved or to what extent they remain unresolved.
Without this information the Court is hesitant to find that Caltrans would be
prejudiced by a refusal to bifurcate the trial. 
 
The Court
is conscious that a refusal to bifurcate will likely result in a request by Caltrans
to continue the trial to adequately prepare for the damages phase. Such a
continuance would necessarily result in a delay in determining possession. Caltrans
argues that possession needs to be swiftly determined in this case given the
hazards posed to neighboring properties by Apex’s continued possession. This
argument is predicated on Caltrans’s assertion that a different Apex property
was the source of a fire which cause significant damage to the 1-10 Freeway in
November 2023. Caltrans does not explain why a hazard from an entirely
different property necessitates swift repossession here. The Court notes that Caltrans
has already stipulated to a continuance of trial once on February 26, 2024. Caltrans
does not endeavor to explain what has changed in the time between the first
continuance and now that had made swift repossession so vital. 
 
Caltrans
also argues that bifurcation would promote judicial economy. C.C.P. § 1048(b)
provides that: 
 
The Court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.
 
Caltrans
reasons that because there is relatively little evidentiary overlap between
possession and damages, judicial efficiency is best served by bifurcation. The
Court finds this argument overlooks the massive inefficiency of conducting two
jury trials rather than one. While situations exist in which a separate jury
trial could result in more efficient adjudication, the Court is skeptical this
is such a situation. It appears to the Court that there would be a substantial
overlap of evidence in the two trials. Further, the Court is not convinced that
the issues are so complex that separating them would result in any increase in
efficiency. Any increase would also likely be offset by the inefficiency of
paneling two juries and conducting two entirely separate trials. 
 
Given the
foregoing, the motion to bifurcate is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The People of the State of California acting by and through
the Department of Transportation’s
Motion to Bifurcate Trial came on regularly for
hearing on May 17, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO BIRFURCATE TRIAL IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CALTRANS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 