 Case Number:  23BBCV00105    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 17, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00105

 



MP:  


Zachary Kamen and Appel Appelusa (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Julie Lynn McIntire dba Golden Bear
  Management, Carol Lee Walsh, and the Carol Lee Walsh Trust (Defendants)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Zachary Kamen and
Appel Appelusa (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Julie Lynn McIntire dba
Golden Bear Management (McIntire), Carol Lee Walsh (Walsh), and the Carol Lee
Walsh Trust (Trust) (collectively Defendants) in connection with an alleged
mold issue in Plaintiffs’ former apartment. Plaintiffs allege they experienced
adverse health conditions while residing at 4918 Cahuenga Boulevard, North
Hollywood, CA 91601 which ultimately forced them to vacate the premises. 
 
Before the Court are
a total of nine motions to compel initial discovery responses. Three motions
are directed to each McIntire, Walsh, and the Trust. These motions are as
follows: 
 
Julie Lynn McIntire
·        
Motion to Deem RFA
Admitted 
·        
Motion to Compel
Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories 
·        
Motion to Compel Responses
to RFPD
 
Carol Lee Walsh
·        
Motion to Deem RFA
Admitted 
·        
Motion to Compel
Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories 
·        
Motion to Compel
Responses to RFPD
 
Carol Lee Walsh Trust
·        
Motion to Deem RFA
Admitted 
·        
Motion to Compel
Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories 
·        
Motion to Compel
Responses to RFPD
 
Walsh and the Trust
oppose each of these motions on grounds that they have since served responses
to each request. McIntire opposes on the same grounds. Plaintiffs have rendered
no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
As an
initial matter, the Court notes that Hanger, Steinberg, Shapiro & Ash
represents all Defendants. All discovery requests from Plaintiffs were served
on Defendants’ counsel on the same day. 
 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded each of their discovery requests on
McIntire, Walsh, and the Trust. (Bhamra Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 2.) Plaintiffs’
counsel granted Defendants several discovery extensions, resulting in a February
9, 2024 due date. (Bhamra Decl. ¶¶ 3-7, Exh. 3.) Plaintiffs received no
responses by the due date and thereafter demanded responses without objection. (Bhamra
Decl. Exh. 3.) While Plaintiffs state they received a voicemail from
Defendants’ counsel on March 13, 2024, they assert they have received no
responses to discovery as of the filing of these motions. (Bhamra Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)

 
Defendants’
Oppositions 
 
Defendants
state that they rendered responses to each discovery request on May 6, 2024.
(See Asrani Decl. ¶ 4, Exhs. 1-12.) A review of the proofs of service for
each of Defendants’ exhibits shows that responses were rendered by email to
Plaintiffs’ counsel. (See e.g. Exh. 1, p. 35.) Further review of Defendants’
exhibits shows that McIntire, Walsh, and the Trust have all subsequently issued
responses to each of Plaintiffs’ discovery requests. Defendants’ counsel states
that the failure to respond by February 9, 2024 was due to the mistake and
inadvertence of counsel. (Asrani Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Discussion

 
Given
that Defendants have subsequently served responses to each of Plaintiffs’
requests for Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD, the
motions to compel responses appear MOOT. The responses appear on their face to
be code compliant, and Plaintiffs have filed no reply stating otherwise. 
 
As
concerns the RFA, C.C.P. § 2033.280(c) provides that a Court shall grant
a motion to deem RFA matters admitted, unless the party to whom the RFA have
been directed has served a proposed response to the RFA that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220 before the hearing on the motion. Here,
Defendants have served responses which are in substantial compliance with
C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing such that the granting of Plaintiffs’
motions is not mandatory. Should Plaintiffs find the responses contain improper
objections or are otherwise insufficient, such matters would be the subject of
a subsequent motion to compel further responses. 
 
Sanctions

 
The
Court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
In
contrast, the Court shall impose monetary sanctions for
failure to timely respond to requests for admission unless the party acted with
substantial justification, or the circumstances render imposition of sanctions
unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction
on the party or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission
responses necessitated the motion. (Id.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs
prepared and filed nine separate motions to compel discovery/deem RFA matters
admitted. Plaintiffs request sanctions of $1,860 be granted with respect to
each motion totaling $16,740, stating their counsel expended two hours in
preparing each motion. (Bhamra Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs’ request also incorporates
an estimated 2 hours in preparing a reply to each motion and the $60 filing fee
in conjunction with each motion. (Bhamra Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
The Court
grants sanctions for the filing fees totaling $540 ($60 x 9) with additional
attorney time of 5 hours at $300 per hour. 
Total sanctions of $2,040; $680 per defendant. This amount discounts Plaintiffs’
estimate of time in preparing a reply, as no replies were filed. Sanctions are granted
against Defendants and their counsel jointly and severally. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Zachary Kamen and
Appel Appelusa’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery and Deem Request for
Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for
hearing on May 17, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE MOOT.
 
THE MOTIONS TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED ARE
MOOT. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,040;
$680 AGAINST DEFENDANTS AND THEIR COUNSEL JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
May 17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 