  Case Number:  20STCP02934    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  86 REV 973, LLC v. LOS ANGELES REGIONAL WATER
QUALITY CONTROL BOARD
Case Number: 20STCP02934
Hearing Date: October 13, 2023
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
In this proceeding, Petitioner, REV 973, LLC, seeks
a writ of mandate “to remove Petitioner’s named status as a discharger under a
Cleanup and Abatement Order No. R4-2014-0117 . . . , issued on September 19,
2014” (Final CAO) by Respondent, California Regional Water Quality Control
Board, Los Angeles Region (Board or Respondent). (See First Amended Verified
Petition for Writ of Mandate (FAP) ¶ 1.) 

 
Petitioner’s request for judicial notice (RJN) of
Exhibits 1 through 4, filed March 1, 2022 is DENIED.  Respondent’s objections are sustained.
Petitioner has not demonstrated the relevance of the exhibits or that judicially
noticing the entirety of the documents is proper. Additionally, Petitioner’s
RJN effectively seeks to augment the administrative record. Petitioner has not
shown that the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5,
subdivision (e), including relevance, are satisfied such that administrative
record is properly augmented with Exhibits 1 through 4. A RJN cannot be used to circumvent the
rules constraining the admission of extra-record evidence. (Ballona Wetlands
Land Trust v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 455, 475, fn. 10.)[1] 
 
Petitioner’s RJN of
Exhibit
5 and Respondent’s RJN of Exhibit A are GRANTED. Petitioner’s objection to
Exhibit A is overruled. Both parties request judicial notice of court records
related to Rev 973, LLC v. John Mouren-Laurens, et al., Case No. CV98-
10690 DSF (EX).  The court judicially
notices the existence of these court records but not the truth of any factual
or hearsay statements contained therein. 

 
BACKGROUND 
 
Statutory Framework 
 
Respondent issued the Final CAO pursuant to the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act
(Wat. Code, § 13000 et seq.) (the Porter-Cologne Act). “The
Porter-Cologne Act recognizes that the protection of water quality can best be
accomplished by statewide regulation with regional administration. Thus, under
the Porter-Cologne Act, the State Water Resources Control Board (State Board)
and nine regional boards are the principal state agencies for enforcing state
water pollution law.” (Tesoro Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los
Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Bd. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 453, 458;
see also San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. San Diego Regional Water
Quality Control Bd. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 427, 434-435.)
 
“Waters of the state,” as defined in the
Porter-Cologne Act, include “any surface water or groundwater . . . within the
boundaries of the state.” (Wat. Code, § 13050, subd. (e).) Water Code section 13304,
subdivision (a) establishes the authority of the nine regional
board's to issue a clean up and abatement order to any person “who has caused
or permitted, causes or permits, or threatens to cause or permit any waste to
be discharged or deposited where it is, or probably will be, discharged into
the waters of the state and creates, or threatens to create, a condition of
pollution or nuisance.” Upon order of a regional board, the discharger shall
“clean up the waste or abate the effects of the waste, or, in the case of threatened
pollution or nuisance, take other necessary remedial action.” (Wat. Code, §
13304, subd. (a).) 
 
Under Water Code section 13304, “cleanup or
abatement orders may be issued to past, present, and future dischargers of
waste; the boards need not prove a person's intent in discharging waste (the
words ‘intentionally or negligently’ were deleted by the 1980 amendment); and
the Legislature empowered regional boards to issue orders to prevent and/or
correct threatened harm, that is, when waste has not yet even reached the
state's waters.”  (San Diego Gas &
Electric Co. v. San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd., supra, 36
Cal.App.5th at 434-435.)
 
The Site and Environmental Investigations 
 
The Final CAO concerns real property located at
641, 705, 717, and 719 East Compton Boulevard in the City of Compton
(collectively, the Site). (AR 8730-8755.) As recited in the Final CAO, “the
Site is approximately 170,000 square feet in area and consists of four
buildings and formerly included aboveground storage tanks (ASTs), associated
piping, a loading dock and parking space.” (AR 8736.)  
 
Joseph and Emma Mouren-Laurens purchased the Site
in 1965. (AR 8736.) John and Mireille Mouren-Laurens later acquired the Site in
or around 1979. (AR 8736) The Mouren-Laurens Oil Company (MLOC) operated at the
Site until about 1998, when Petitioner acquired the Site after it “exercised its rights under the deed of trust with a
public trustee sale.” (AR 8736 and Amended Opening Brief 7:13-21 [citing
AR 2473, 8185-89, 8845]; see also AR 8734 [“Rev 973 purchased a package of
loans from FDIC, which included [the] MLOC loan. After MLOC defaulted on the
loan, Rev 973, automatically became the property owner through
the process of foreclosure. . . .”])    
 
The Final CAO describes the “Groundwater Basin”
and “Chemical Usage” of the Site: 
 
Groundwater Basin:
. . . . The Site is underlain by alluvial material consisting of clay, silt,
sand and gravel. The Bellflower Aquiclude overlies the Gardena/Gage Aquifer of
Lakewood Formation beneath the Site. Exposition-Artesia Aquifer is absent
beneath the Site. The maximum depth of investigation at the Site is 95 feet
below ground surface (bgs). There are two groundwater zones identified at
approximately 60 feet bgs and 80 feet bgs located within the Bellflower
Aquiclude beneath the Site. There are several groundwater monitoring wells
screened within the two groundwater zones. The groundwater flow is towards
south-south east.
 
. . . .
 
Chemical Usage: MLOC was engaged
in blending and packaging of both new and
recycled/refined/reclaimed motor oils,
transmission oils, and antifreeze for retail. Tanker trucks from oil refineries
delivered both new and recycled/refined/reclaimed motor oil to the above ground
storage tanks. From these ASTs oil was piped into a plant where it was blended
and packaged for retail. In addition, one underground pipeline transferred recycled/refined/reclaimed
oil from the adjacent Leach Oil Company (LOC) site to the ASTs located in the
northern portion of the Site. The site operations also included various phases
of receiving, processing, and packaging of chemicals. For over 50 years, the
Site was used for oil storage, blending and repackaging of recycled/refined/reclaimed
oil, petroleum products, cleaning agents, and commercially available chemicals.
Based on the available information, the usage, storage, and transfer of
chemicals and/or hazardous materials at the Site, at a minimum, include: crude
oil, processed oil (motor oil, transmission oil), solvents, antifreeze, resins,
urethane and household cleaning agents. (AR 8737.)
 
Several environmental investigations have been
conducted on the Site by environmental consultants, including Clayton, AEI
Consultants, Waterstone Environmental, and MK Environmental Consulting, Inc.
(AR 8386-8387; see e.g. AR 2465-2704 [AEI Site Characterization Investigation
dated Jan. 19, 2001]; AR 3018-4577 [Waterstone Phase II Site Characterization
Plan dated Dec. 1, 2006].)  
 
As recited in the Final CAO:
 
data collected from environmental investigations
conducted at the Site indicate that wastes discharged at the Site due to the
industrial operations consist of solvents, petroleum hydrocarbons, volatile
organic compounds (VOCs), semi-volatile organic compounds (semiVOCs),
polychlorinated biphenyls (RGBs), metals, pesticides and emergent chemicals
such as 1,4-Dioxane. (AR 8737.)  
 
According to the Final CAO, the investigations undertaken
have detected elevated concentrations of trichloroethylene (TCE), tetrachloroethylene (PCE), 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene
(TMB), benzene1,4-dioxane,
toluene, arsenic, and other wastes in soil, soil vapor, and/or groundwater in
and around the Site and the adjacent property. The levels of the observed
chemicals exceed regulatory limits and are in concentrations that pose a risk
to public health and safety. (AR 8738-8739.)[2]
 
The Final CAO 
 
The Board released the
draft cleanup and abatement order (Draft CAO) on January 6, 2011. (AR 6020-6032.)
The Draft CAO gave the named parties, including Petitioner, until February 10,
2011 to provide written comments to it. (AR 6020-6032.) The Board extended the comment
deadline several times to July 11, 2011 at the request of Petitioner and other
entities named in the Draft CAO. (AR 8125-8126; AR 8133-8135; AR 8137-8138; AR
8169; AR 8180-8181.) Petitioner provided comments to the Board on the Draft CAO
on July 11, 2011. (AR 8183-8186; AR 8187-8190; AR 8768-8770.)
 
On September 19,
2014, the Board issued the Final CAO, naming Petitioner and five other entities
as “dischargers” and “responsible parties.” (AR 8730-8755.) On October 22,
2014, Petitioner petitioned the State Board to review the Final CAO. (AR
8794-8827.) Petitioner thereafter requested that the State Board hold the
petition in abeyance. (AR 8804.) The State Board did so until January 2020. On
January 17, 2020, the State Board activated the petition (AR 8832; AR 8838) but
declined review; the petition was deemed dismissed by operation of law on or
about April 17, 2020. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 23, § 2050.5, subd. (e).)
 
Writ Proceedings
 
On September 11, 2020, Petitioner filed its verified
petition for writ of mandate challenging the Final CAO. On October 9, 2020,
Petitioner filed its FAP.
 
On March 1, 2022, Petitioner filed its opening
brief, a request for judicial notice, and a motion to augment the
administrative record.
 
On May 24, 2023, the court denied without
prejudice Petitioner’s motion to augment the administrative record. The court
scheduled a hearing on a renewed motion to augment the record for August 4,
2023.
 
On August 4, 2023, after a hearing and having
considered Petitioner’s renewed motion, the court granted Petitioner’s motion
to augment the administrative record as to Exhibit 23 only—a request for stay
and hearing on the Final CAO filed by Petitioner’s former counsel on October
20, 2014.  The court denied the motion to
augment in all other respects and as to Exhibits 1 through 22, Exhibit 24 and Exhibit
25.
 
On August 15, 2023, Petitioner filed and served its
Amended Opening Brief and Amended Reply Brief. 
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner is before the court pursuant
to Water Code section 13330, which provides in relevant part: 
 
Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall govern proceedings
for which petitions are filed pursuant to this section. For the purposes of
subdivision (c) of Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court
shall exercise its independent judgment on the evidence in any case involving
the judicial review of . . . a decision or order of a regional board for which
the state board denies review under Section 13320 . . . . (Wat. Code, § 13330,
subdivision (e).)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5, subdivision (b), judicial review entails consideration of whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion
is established if the agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law,
the decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings are not
supported by the evidence.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
Under the court’s independent judgment,
“the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors of law,
but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a
limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.) The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its determinations as to the credibility of witnesses. (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.) “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also Evid. Code, § 664 [presumption of
regularity].)
 
“ ‘On questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.’ ” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) The interpretation of statute or regulation is a
question of law.  (See State Farm Mutual
Automobile Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.) “A challenge
to the procedural fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on
appeal because the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a
question of law.” (Nasha v. City of Los
Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.) 

 
Significantly,
Petitioner bears the burden of proof and
persuasion in this proceeding. (Strumsky
v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.
App. 2d 129, 137.) When there is a challenge
to “the sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the point must be
set forth and not merely [the challengers] own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town of
Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.)  “And in doing so, the challenger cannot simply
ignore the evidence in the record that was relied upon by the board . . . . Rather,
the challenger must explain why that evidence is insufficient to support that
finding.” (Shenouda v. Veterinary Medical
Bd. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 500,
513.)  A reviewing court “will not
act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of
initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of
discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742; see also Inyo Citizens for Better Planning v. Inyo
County Board of Supervisors (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 1, 14. [“We are not required to search the record to ascertain whether
it contains support for [the parties’] contentions.”])  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Fair Procedure and
Due Process
 
Petitioner contends
the Board violated its due process rights by: (1) not providing Petitioner “the
required notice” of the Final CAO; (2) not holding a hearing on the Final CAO
with a resulting failure to hear from the current landowner; and (3) “not
accepting or considering or evaluating” evidence other “deep pocket” entities
were primarily responsible for the waste discharges. (See Amended Opening Brief
18:17, 18:12-19:24)
 
“[D]ue process is a flexible concept that
requires protections appropriate to the particular situation.” (Rondon v. Alcoholic Beverage Control Appeals
Bd. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1284.) “[A]t a minimum [due process]
require[s] that deprivation of life, liberty or property by adjudication be
preceded by notice and opportunity for hearing appropriate to the nature of the
case.” (Goss v. Lopez (1975) 419 U.S. 565, 579.) A litigant asserting a
deprivation of due process generally must show “(1) a deprivation of a
constitutionally protected liberty or property interest, and (2) a denial of
adequate procedural protections.” (Franceschi v. Yee (9th Cir. 2018) 887
F.3d 927, 935.) Similarly, under California administrative law, “a fair procedure
requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to apprise interested parties of the
pendency of the action . . . and an opportunity to present their objections.’ ”
(Doe v. University of Southern California
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 240.)  
 
              Notice
 
Petitioner
contends the Board “did not provide Petitioner, the current owner of the [Site]
next door to the Leach TSDF, the required notice” of the Final CAO. (Amended
Opening Brief 18:16-17 [citing AR 8730-31].) 

 
Petitioner’s
citation to the administrative record does not support Petitioner’s position on
its failure to provide notice claim. In fact, the citation supports a contrary
position. (AR 8731.)
 
The Board
sent the Final CAO by certified mail to “Rev 973, LLC and Jerald A. Fine c/o
Franklin R. Fraley, Jr. [at] Fraley & Associates” on or about September 19,
2014 by certified mail with a return receipt. (AR 8730.) Petitioner provides no
evidence it did not receive the Final CAO. 

 
More
importantly, the Board’s transmittal letter reports: “A draft of this CAO was provided
to you on January 6, 2011, inviting comments. Comments were received from the
Cronin Law Group on May 11, 2011 and from Michel & Associates and Fraley
& Associates on July 11, 2011. The attached document, titled ‘Response to
Comments – Draft Cleanup and Abatement Order No. R4-2011-0005,’ summarizes the
comments received and the responses to those comments.” (AR 8731.)  
 
In its
Amended Opening Brief, Petitioner does not dispute the accuracy of the Board’s
statement in its September 19, 2014 transmittal letter. That Petitioner
commented on the Draft CAO demonstrates Petitioner received adequate notice of
the Draft CAO. The Board provided Petitioner and other interested parties more
than six months to submit written comments concerning the Draft CAO.[3] Petitioner provides no
authority a six-month comment period for the Draft CAO violated due process and
fair procedure principles.
 
For the first time in
reply, Petitioner asserts the Board “hid the ball” from Petitioner, and “the
notice [the Board] refers to was a letter sent years earlier in January 2011, concerning a different 2011 draft
CAO – which was abandoned with no action taken.” (Amended Reply 9:15-20.) Petitioner’s
position is unpersuasive. The transmittal
letter for the Final CAO recites it is based on a draft clean up and abatement
order No. R4-2011-0005 issued in 2011. The record includes proof of service of
the Draft CAO (No. R4-2011-0005 issued in 2011) pertaining to the same Site and
waste dischargers and waste discharges discussed in the Final CAO. (Compare AR
6020-6033 with AR 8735-8747.) Petitioner fails to show that Respondent “hid the
ball” and did not give notice of the Draft CAO or comment period pertaining to
the Site.  
 
Petitioner relies
on Water Code section 13307.1, subdivision (a) to support its claim. The
statute provides:
 
The state board and the regional boards
shall not consider cleanup or site closure proposals from the primary or active
responsible discharger, issue a closure letter, or make a determination that no
further action is required with respect to a site subject to a cleanup or
abatement order pursuant to Section 13304, unless all current record owners of
fee title to the site of the proposed action have been notified of the proposed
action by the state board or regional board. 

 
Petitioner does not
make any deficiency in the Board’s notice clear. It is undisputed the Board
provided, Petitioner, the current record owner of the Site, notice of the Draft
CAO—with alleged discharges and evidence of contamination—along with an
opportunity to comment and, as here, to obtain a response to those comments by
the Board. The Board also provided Petitioner with notice of the Final CAO
allowing Petitioner to seek review by the State Board.  To the extent Water Code section 13307.1,
subdivision (a) applies to the Board’s issuance of the Final CAO, the record demonstrates
Petitioner received the benefits of the requirements of Water Code section
13307.1, subdivision (a).[4]
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner has
not demonstrated the Board violated its due process rights when it issued the
Final CAO after receiving comments to the Draft CAO in 2011. The court finds the Board provided Petitioner
with adequate notice of the Draft CAO and the Final CAO.
 
              Opportunity to Respond and
Right to a Hearing
 
Two authorities support
the Board’s position that “[d]ue process did not require the Los Angeles Water
Board to conduct a hearing in addition to the written comment period prior to
issuing the CAO.” (Opposition 15:6-7.) In Machado v. State Water Resources
Control Bd. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 720, a regional water board issued a clean
up and abatement order pursuant to Water Code section 13304 against a dairy
that was “discharging manure and wastewater into a ditch that flowed into a
drainage system and then into the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta.” (Id. at
723.)  The dairy argued “its due process
rights were violated because it was not afforded a hearing before the issuance
of the cleanup and abatement order.” (Id. at 725.)  
 
After analyzing
factors set forth in Mathews v. Eldridge (1976) 424 U.S. 319, 334-335,
the Court of Appeal held due process did not require such a hearing.[5]  The Court reasoned, in part, the clean up and
abatement order “does not impose criminal or civil penalties, nor does it shut
down the Dairy or otherwise prevent its operation.” (Id. at 726.) While the
clean up and abatement order required inspections and changes to the dairy’s
wastewater distribution system, the order “d[id] not affect the fundamental
nature of its business.” (Ibid.) The Court also reasoned the procedural
safeguards of the Porter-Cologne Act “minimize the risk of an erroneous
deprivation of the Dairy's interests.” (Ibid.) The Court noted the dairy
“had an informal opportunity to dispute the [regional board’s] determination
before the order issued”; it could seek review of the order before the State
Board; and it could petition the trial court for writ review. (Ibid.)
Finally, the Court considered the important governmental interests involved.
“The need for immediate action to clean up or abate waste discharge is obvious:
Unlawful discharges threaten public health and safety, and pose significant
risk to the environment. The state need not wait until injury actually occurs;
it may act to prevent or minimize the harm.” 
(Id. at 727.)
 
Similarly, in Barclay Hollander
Corp. v. California Regional Water Quality Control Bd. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 479, the Court of Appeal held that due process does not entitle a
developer of a site once owned by an oil company to a formal evidentiary
hearing when the regional board is considering whether to hold the developer
jointly and severally responsible with the oil company for the cleanup and
abatement of petroleum compounds and other contaminants on the site. The Barclay
Court also analyzed the Mathews v. Eldridge factors and reached the
same result as Machado v. State Water Resources Control Bd.  
 
Petitioner does not address the Mathews
v. Eldridge factors, Machado v. State Water Resources Control Bd. or Barclay
Hollander Corp. v. California Regional Water Quality Control Bd. when
asserting it was entitled to an evidentiary hearing to challenge the Final CAO.
Contrary to Petitioner’s assertion in reply (Reply 9:2-14), the clean up and
abatement orders in Machado v. State Water Resources Control Bd. and Barclay
v. California Regional Water Quality Control Bd. were issued pursuant to
the Port-Cologne Act and Water Code section 13304. (See Machado v. State Water Resources Control Bd., supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 727; Barclay v. California
Regional Water Quality Control Bd., supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at 489-490 and
fn. 8.) Accordingly, the decisions are relevant to whether due process required
that Petitioner be afforded an evidentiary hearing for the Final CAO.  Having failed to explain why the Mathews
v. Eldridge factors should be analyzed differently here, Petitioner has not
demonstrated the Board deprived it of due process.  
 
Further, even when the court
considers the Mathews v. Eldridge factors independently, the court
reaches the same result as Machado v. State Water Resources Control Bd. and
Barclay Hollander Corp. v. California Regional Water Quality Bd.  The Final CAO does not impose criminal or
civil penalties, and it does not shut down Petitioner’s operations. The risk of
an erroneous deprivation of Petitioner’s interests is minimized by the
procedural safeguards of the Porter-Cologne Act—Petitioner had the opportunity
to comment on the Draft CAO; petition for reconsideration by the Board; request
review by the State Board; and file this writ proceeding.  Finally, the governmental interest in taking
action to clean up or abate waste is strong. 
(Machado v. State
Water Resources Control Bd., supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 727.) Consistent with binding appellate decisions, the
court finds due process did not require the Board to hold an evidentiary
hearing prior to issuing its Final CAO.
 
Petitioner also contends Water Code
section 13307.1, subdivision (b) required the Board to conduct an evidentiary
hearing to consider input and recommendations from it. The statue provides:
 
“The state board and regional boards shall take all
reasonable steps necessary to accommodate responsible landowner participation
in the cleanup or site closure process and shall consider all input and
recommendations from any responsible landowner wishing to participate.” (Wat.
Code, § 13307.1, subd. (b).)
 
Nothing in Water Code section
13307.1, subdivision (b) requires an evidentiary hearing by the Board. The
statute requires consideration of input and recommendations. The Board did just
that during the comment period provided in 2011. The Board also expressly
responded to comments made. (AR 8732-8734.)
 
The court finds Petitioner had a
reasonable opportunity to respond to the Draft CAO during the comment period.
The court further finds due process did not require the Board to conduct an
evidentiary hearing before issuing the Final CAO.[6]
 
Did the Board Consider Petitioner’s Input
and Recommendations Regarding PRP[7] Liability?
 
Petitioner contends
the Board violated its due process rights by “not accepting or considering or
evaluating in its Findings the PRP liability evidence offered by Petitioner, or
considered in meetings between Respondent and the PRPs started in 2011, or in
the transferring agency’s files (DTSC’s files).” (Amended Opening Brief 18:24-27.)
Petitioner again relies on Water Code section 13307.1, subdivision (b) for
support.
 
As noted earlier, however, Water Code
section 13307.1, subdivision (b) merely requires the Board to “consider”
Petitioner’s “input and recommendations.” The administrative record demonstrates
the Board complied with the law and considered Petitioner’s comments before
issuing the Final CAO. (See AR 8734 [responses to Petitioner’s comments].)[8]
 
To the extent Petitioner contends the
Board’s obligation under Water Code section 13307.1, subdivision (b) was a
broad obligation to “accept and consider” evidence of others’ liability as
suggested by Petitioner at meetings or in agency files, Petitioner cites no
controlling authority as support for the position. Moreover, nothing suggests
the Board did not fully consider Petitioner’s position related to the liability
of others. (See Evid. Code, § 664.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
concludes the Board did not deprive Petitioner of due process or a fair
procedure. The court also finds the Board complied with the requirements of
Water Code section 13307.1.[9]
 
The Board Made
Sufficient Findings and the Findings Support the Board’s Decision
 
Petitioner contends the Board’s findings
“of why Petitioner is a ‘Discharger’ ” (Amended Opening Brief 12:5) fails to
comply with Topanga because “[n]owhere in the Findings does [the Board]
attribute to Petitioner, or for that matter Petitioner’s warehousing licensees,
creation of discharges to groundwater or operations threatening discharges to
groundwater that would necessitate a cleanup.” (Amended Opening Brief 11:21-23.)
 
In Topanga
Assn. for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles (1974) 11 Cal. 3d
506, 515, our Supreme Court held “implicit in [Code of Civil Procedure] section
1094.5 is a requirement that the agency which renders the challenged decision
must set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and
ultimate decision or order.” “Administrative agency findings are generally
permitted considerable latitude with regard to their precision, formality, and
matters reasonably implied therein.” (Southern
Pacific Transportation Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization (1987) 191
Cal.App.3d 938, 954.) The agency's findings may “be determined to be sufficient
if a court has no trouble under the circumstances discerning the analytic route
the administrative agency traveled from evidence to action.” (West
Chandler Boulevard Neighborhood Assn. v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1506, 1521-22.)  However, “mere conclusory
findings without reference to the record are inadequate.” (Id. at 1521.)
“The nature of the statute, ordinance, or rule being applied by that agency is
also relevant to the analysis of the adequacy of an administrative agency's
findings.” (Young v. City of Coronado (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 408,
421.)   
 
Petitioner contends the Final CAO states
“one, and only one, basis for making
Petitioner liable as a ‘discharger’ in the [Final] CAO: Petitioner’s mere
status as ‘the current owner of the property.’ ” (Amended Opening Brief 11:16-18.)
The court disagrees.  
 
Here, the Final CAO
describes the groundwater basin above which the Site is located; the former
operations of MLOC; and the evidence of waste discharges from the Site in
connection with MLOC’s operations. Significantly, the Final CAO also cites
environmental investigations that were performed after Petitioner acquired
the Site in 1998 and which found elevated concentrations of waste,
including volatile organic compounds, in the soil vapor, soil matrix, and
groundwater beneath the Site. (AR 8735-8739.) As discussed further below, a
“discharger” under Water Code section 13304 may include a person or entity that
has acquired a contaminated site and allowed the waste discharges at and from
the site to continue unabated.  
 
The Board
also issued the Final CAO after considering Petitioner’s comments it “cannot be
named as a responsible party according to the law.” (AR 8734.) More specifically,
Petitioner commented it could not be held responsible under Water Code section
13304 “as a foreclosing lender.” The Board rejected Petitioner’s position
reporting: “Rev 973 is a responsible party due to its ownership of the site
since 1998. In a series of orders, the State Water Resources Control Board has
held that landowners are responsible for cleanup of their property. . . . Rev 973
has knowledge of, and the ability to control the discharges.” (AR 8733-34.)
 
The Final CAO
includes sufficient findings to support Petitioner’s responsibility under Water
Code section 13304 for waste discharges from a contaminated site and to issue
the Final CAO against Petitioner. The Final CAO also sufficiently complies with
Topanga Assn. for a Scenic Community v.
County of Los Angeles, supra, 11 Cal. 3d at 515.)
 
The Findings Are
Supported by the Weight of the Evidence
 
Petitioner contends “[t]he plain language
of Water Code section 13304 precludes naming a current owner or operator after
the property was already contaminated, who did not create or permit [or] threaten
[] creation of discharges to groundwater of their own.” (Amended Opening Brief 13:18-20.)
Primarily on that basis, Petitioner contends the Board’s findings are not
supported by the weight of evidence constituting a prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  
 
As noted, the court exercises its
independent judgment to determine whether the weight of the evidence supports the
Board’s findings and Final CAO. (Wat. Code, § 13330, subd. (e); Code Civ.
Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (e).) The court “must weigh all the evidence for itself
and make its own decision about which party’s position is supported by a
preponderance. [Citation.] The question is not whether any rational fact finder
could make the finding below, but whether the reviewing court believed the
finding actually was correct.” (Sweeney v. California Regional Water Quality
Control Bd. (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 1093, 1112.) “In exercising its
independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of
correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging
the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative
findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels, supra, 20 Cal. 4th at 817.) To the extent
“purely legal issues involve the interpretation of a statute an administrative
agency is responsible for enforcing, [the court] exercise[s] [its] independent
judgment, ‘taking into account and respecting the agency's interpretation of
its meaning.’ ” (Housing Partners I, Inc.
v. Duncan (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343.)
 
              Statutory Construction of Water
Code Section 13304
 
Petitioner’s principal argument is one of
statutory construction and requires the court to consider the following
question: Under what circumstances may a person or entity that acquired
contaminated property after the initial discharges of waste already occurred be
considered a “discharger” under Water Code section 13304?  
 
Water Code section 13304,
subdivision (a) establishes a regional board's authority to
issue a clean up and abatement order to any person “who has caused or
permitted, causes or permits, or threatens to cause or permit any waste to be
discharged or deposited where it is, or probably will be, discharged into the
waters of the state and creates, or threatens to create, a condition of
pollution or nuisance.” 
 
Petitioner argues liability under Water Code section
13304 is not “strict.” (Amended Opening Brief 11:1.) Petitioner cites San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd. (2019)
36 Cal.App.5th 427, involving a powerplant with waste discharge into the San
Diego Bay, to support its argument. In the case, the Court of Appeal rejected
the powerplant’s argument its actions must be a “substantial factor” in creating,
or threatening to create, a condition of pollution or nuisance. 
 
As relevant to Petitioner’s argument concerning
“strict liability,” the Court of Appeal reasoned, in part, as follows: 
 
Nowhere
in the Porter-Cologne Act, including in any of the enacted versions of section 13304,
are the words ‘substantial factor causation’ used or referenced; certainly, the
Legislature did not explicitly require a finding of substantial factor
causation prior to a regional board's issuing a cleanup or abatement order.
Moreover, changes made to the statute's language over time evince a legislative
intent to expand the regional boards' ability to name responsible persons. For
example, cleanup or abatement orders may be issued to past, present, and future
dischargers of waste; the boards need not prove a person's intent in
discharging waste (the words ‘intentionally or negligently’ were deleted by the
1980 amendment); and the Legislature empowered regional boards to issue
orders to prevent and/or correct threatened harm, that is, when waste has not
yet even reached the state's waters. (Id. at 435-436 [emphasis added].)   
 
Petitioner does not persuasively address the
Court of Appeal’s guidance. Regional boards need not prove a person’s intent in
discharging waste to establish liability under Water Code section 13304. As
summarized by the Court of Appeal, the Board is only “required
to establish two elements prior to issuing the CAO . . . : (1) that
[Petitioner] ‘caused or permitted . . . waste to be discharged or deposited’
into state waters (discharge element), and (2) that the discharged waste
‘creates, or threatens to create,’ pollution or nuisance conditions (nuisance
creation element).” (Id. at 431.)
 
Petitioner also argues, citing San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd.,
there must be a “causal link” between the named responsible person and an
actual or threatened discharge of waste. (Amended Opening Brief 11:2.)  While San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v.
San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd. states the general rule that “a regional board must establish a causal link or connection
between a named responsible person and an actual or threatened discharge of waste,” the Court of
Appeal also included a footnote stating: “We express no opinion on
what test, if any, applies to this discharge element since [the powerplant]
does not dispute on appeal that it ‘caused or permitted’ waste to be discharged
into the Shipyard Sediment Site.” (Id. at 440, fn. 8.) Of course, “ ‘[i]t is axiomatic that language in a
judicial opinion is to be understood in accordance with the facts and
issues before the court. An opinion is not authority
for propositions not considered.’ ” (People v. Knoller (2007)
41 Cal.4th 139, 154-55.)
 
Although San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v.
San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd. does not fully answer the
question presented by Petitioner, a different appellate decision does.  In Tesoro Refining & Marketing Co. LLC
v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Bd., supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at
453, a gasoline company (Tesoro) challenged a clean up and abatement order
issued by a regional board based on an alleged discharge of contaminants from pipelines.
Tesoro “criticized the Regional Board's failure to make an express finding that
the discharge occurred after 1970 as required to avoid an impermissible
retroactive application of the Act.”  (Id.
at 465.) Tesoro also “argued that a factual finding of a pre-1970 discharge was
necessary because ‘discharge’ could not be properly defined to encompass
pollution that ‘continues to occur and expand,’ as it passes from its original
location, through the soil and into the groundwater.” (Ibid.)  
 
The Court of Appeal rejected Tesoro’s
construction of the term “discharge.” 
The Court noted “[t]he State Board has defined the term ‘discharge’ in
this statutory provision consistently for the past 40 years to refer to the
entire time during which the discharged waste remains in the soil or
groundwater and continues to impact or to threaten the groundwater.” (Tesoro
Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control
Bd., supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at 458.) The Court of Appeal approved of State
Board’s definition of discharge:
 
As stated in
those [State Board] decisions, discharge refers to any movement of waste from
soils to groundwater and from contaminated to uncontaminated groundwater, and
continues to occur if the waste continues to move through the soils and
groundwater and poses a threat of further degradation to groundwater. (Atchison, Topeka, supra,
1974 Cal. Env. Lexis 2 at p. *9.) An actionable discharge, therefore,
encompasses not simply the initial episode of contamination, but rather
includes the time during which the waste uncontrollably flows or migrates from
its source, through the soil, and into and within the groundwater. (See Zoecon
Corp., supra, 1986 Cal. Env. Lexis 4 at p. *3; Atchison,
Topeka, supra, 1974 Cal. Env. Lexis 2 at pp. *9–*10.)
 
Where
agencies interpret statutes within their administrative jurisdiction, such
rulings constitute “ ‘a body of experience and informed judgment to which
courts . . . may properly resort for guidance.’ ” (Yamaha
Corp. of America v. State Bd. of Equalization [citation].) Judicial deference is particularly
appropriate in cases, such as the one here, where the agency has “ ‘expertise
and technical knowledge’”  and “ ‘has
consistently maintained the interpretation in question.’ ” . . . .
 
Going beyond
judicial deference to the agency's longstanding administrative construction of
its statutes, we find that the Regional Board's definition of discharge to
include ongoing movement of contaminants through the soil and into the
groundwater is consistent with the plain language of the statute. . . . In Lake
Madrone, [citation], the court determined that “the ordinary import” of
the term “discharge” is “ ‘to relieve of a charge, load or burden; . . . to
give outlet to; pour forth.’ ” That definition is entirely congruent with the
definition used by the State Board in this case. Where, as here, a pipeline
leak puts forth or emits gasoline into the soil, and that unremediated gasoline
waste continues to pour forth or to emit chemicals forming a toxic plume that
actively threatens to pollute otherwise uncontaminated groundwater, the term
“discharge” necessarily encompasses this entire period. (Tesoro Refining
& Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Bd.,
supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at 473.)
 
Petitioner
did not address the Tesoro Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles
Regional Water Quality Control Bd. decision in its Amended Opening Brief despite
the case’s apparent relevance to the parties’ dispute. Petitioner does argue in
reply that Tesoro Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles Regional
Water Quality Control Bd. does not apply because “[t]hat case . . .
did not concern discharges created by others for which a later owner was held
liable.” (Amended Reply 3:22-23.)
 
The court is not persuaded the distinction noted by Petitioner is
material. The Court of Appeal’s decision analyzed the definition of “discharge”
at length and approved of the State Board’s definition that includes “the entire time during which the discharged
waste remains in the soil or groundwater and continues to impact or to threaten
the groundwater.” (Tesoro Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles
Regional Water Quality Control Bd., supra, 42
Cal.App.5th at 472.) The definition approved of by the Court of Appeal
reasonably includes a person or entity that purchases or acquires the
contaminated property while the discharged waste remains in the soil or
groundwater and where that waste continues to impact or threaten state waters.  (See also People v. New Penn Mines, Inc. (1963)
212 Cal.App.2d 667, discussed at San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. San Diego Regional Water Quality
Control Bd.,
supra, 36 Cal.App.5th at 438 [“an owner of an
inactive or abandoned mine may be held responsible for an actual or threatened
pollution or nuisance condition when surface water or some other mechanism
causes drainage of accumulated mine waste into a body of water”].)  
 
A
different interpretation of Water Code section 13304, to exclude the current
owners of contaminated property if they were not involved in the initial
discharges, finds no support in the plain language of Water Code section 13304
and also leads to absurd results that are inconsistent with the intent of the
Porter-Cologne Act. Specifically, if Petitioner’s interpretation were correct,
the original discharger of waste could transfer the property to a person or
entity that was not involved in the initial discharges and dissolve (or go
bankrupt) effecting leaving circumstances where there is no responsibility for
clean up and abatement under Water Code section 13304. In such a situation, the
transferee avoids any responsibility despite waste actively migrating from the
property and threatening to contaminate groundwater. Petitioner argues, in
effect, that there may be no remedy under Water Code section 13304 if
contaminated property is transferred to a person or entity that was not
involved in the initial discharge. The court finds Petitioner’s interpretation unpersuasive.  (See People
v. Jenkins (1995) 10 Cal.4th 234, 246 [when interpreting a statute or regulation, courts
seek to “avoid an interpretation that would lead
to absurd consequences”]; Takiguchi v. Venetian Condominiums Maintenance
Corp. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 880, 895. [“A remedial statute should be liberally construed to effectuate its object and
purpose, and to suppress the mischief at which it is directed.”])  
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court applies the definition of “discharge” adopted by Tesoro
Refining & Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control
Bd., supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at 473 to the evidence found in the
administrative record. The court rejects Petitioner’s contention that a
“discharger” under Water Code section 13304 may not include a person or entity
that acquired the contaminated property after the initial discharges of waste
occurred.[10]  
 
///
The Weight of the Evidence Supports the Findings
of Discharges of Waste that Create or Threaten to Create a Condition of Pollution
and Nuisance 
 
The Final CAO reports environmental
investigations have detected elevated concentrations of trichloroethylene (TCE),
tetrachloroethylene (PCE), 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene (TMB), benzene1,4-dioxane, toluene, arsenic,
and other wastes in soil, soil vapor, and/or groundwater in and around the Site
and the adjacent property at levels that exceed regulatory limits and in
concentrations that pose a risk to public health and safety. (AR 8738-8739.)
The Final CAO discusses the “groundwater basin” below the Site and reveals “[e]levated
concentrations of waste, including VOCs and other wastes, have been detected in
soil vapor, soil matrix, and groundwater beneath the Site.” (AR 8738.) The Final
CAO states “Discharges of waste at the [] Site have commingled with discharges
of waste at the LOC Site. The Regional Board is also overseeing assessment,
cleanup, and remediation of the Leach Oil Company site.” (AR 8738.) The Final CAO
finds “Rev 973 has knowledge of, and the ability to control the discharges.”  (AR 8733-34.) 

 
Significantly,
the Final CAO explains how the waste concentrations on the Site exceed
regulatory limits and present an ongoing threat to the state waters and human
health. (AR 8738. [“These concentrations of chemicals in shallow soil pose a
potential threat to human health”]; [“The TCE, cis 1,2-DCE, benzene, toluene,
arsenic, and thallium concentrations in groundwater exceed their respective
Environmental Protection Agency, State Water Resources Control Board, Division
of Drinking Water (DDW) maximum contamination levels (MCLs) of 5 pg/L, 6 pg/L,
1 pg/L, 150 pg/L, 10 pg/L and 2 pg/L; posing a threat to drinking water
resources.”])  
 
In its
Amended Opening Brief and Amended Reply, Petitioner has not persuasively
challenged or discussed these material findings by the Board. Petitioner does
not dispute the findings of ongoing contamination at the Site that exceeds
regulatory limits; migration of waste discharges from the Site to the adjacent
property; and an ongoing threat of polluting the groundwater basin below the
Site. Nor has Petitioner disputed its ownership and control of the Site since
1998.  Accordingly, Petitioner has not
met its burden of proof to show a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (Shenouda v. Veterinary Medical Bd., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at 513 [“the challenger
must explain why that evidence is insufficient to support that finding”].)[11]
 
Although
Petitioner has not shown a prejudicial abuse of discretion based on the Board’s
findings, the court has nonetheless reviewed the record independently and concluded
the Board’s findings are supported by the weight of the evidence. It is
undisputed that MLOC engaged in oil-related operations and caused discharges of
waste from the Site until about 1998. (AR 8736-8737.) After Petitioner acquired
the Site in 1998, environmental investigations detected elevated concentrations
of hazardous wastes in “soil vapor, soil matrix, and groundwater beneath
the Site” and migration of such wastes to adjacent property. (AR 8738.)  As an example, in a report dated January 19, 2001, Petitioner’s own consultant described
extensive groundwater contamination from the Site and how plumes of multiple
contaminants, including TCE, have “migrated” or “drifted” off-site. The following excerpt from the
report is illustrative:
 
Generally,
the groundwater contamination was highest near the southern, western and central
areas of the subject site. Groundwater contamination constituents consist of several
chemicals including benzene, cis-1,2-dichlorethene, cis-1,2-dichlorethane, trichloroethylene,
1,2-dichloroethane, 1, 1-dichloroethene, 1, 1-dichloroethane chlorobenzene, and
tetrachloroethylene. Based on the type of chemicals found in both the soil and
groundwater, the groundwater contamination appears to be connected to the
overlying soil contamination.
 
Figure 17
shows the distribution of TCE concentrations in the perched aquifer. The
highest
concentration is found at TP-1, located at the rear of Building Two. A spill
may have taken place at or near this location. Lateral spreading from this
location could have resulted in a TCE plume in the perched aquifer as
indicated.
 
The
concentrations of TCE in groundwater from the basal aquifer are given in Figure
18. Most of this plume remains on-site. The highest concentration is again
located at the rear of Building Two. Note that concentrations of TCE in the
basal aquifer are lower than those in the perched aquifer by about an order of
magnitude; however, all wells have been impacted. There also appears to be
significant migration of the plume to the southwest.
 
              . . . .
 
Figure 21
shows concentrations of benzene in groundwater from the basal aquifer. Benzene
is the most mobile of the BTEX compounds, so it is to be expected that significant
spreading of the plume to the south has occurred. The highest concentrations were
found in MW-2 near the truck maintenance and storage operation, and to the rear
of Building Two in MW-6.
 
. . . .
 
Figure
25 shows concentrations of 1,2-DCA ranging from non-detect to 22.4 ug/L were found
in groundwater from the basal aquifer. The highest concentration of 22.4 ug/L
was found near the underground pipeline from The Leach Oil Company. The plume
has migrated off-site to the southeast. . . .
 
Figure
26 is a plot of concentrations of 1, 1 - DCE
in groundwater from the basal aquifer. Available data indicates that this plume
has drifted off-site. The highest concentration of 9.9 ug/L was found at MW-3
and the second highest concentration was found at MW-near the underground
pipeline from The Leach Oil Company. . . .
 
.
. . .
 
Data
indicates that there were numerous unauthorized releases of hazardous material and petroleum product
releases on the subject site. These releases caused both subsurface soil and
groundwater contamination. Further work will be conducted under the guidance of
the Los Angeles Regional Water
Quality Control Board (LARWQCB) who will provide regulatory oversight. AEI
anticipates that the LAR WQCB will require further groundwater characterization
through the installation of
off-site groundwater monitoring wells in up-gradient, down-gradient and
cross-gradient locations. Additionally, remediation feasibility studies (pilot
studies) will be required to assess the effectiveness of various remediation technologies
in remediating soil and groundwater contamination on-site. (AR 2488-2489.)
 
Although the
environmental report was prepared in 2001 after Petitioner owned the Site,
Petitioner has not cited any evidence suggesting the waste circumstances have improved
at the Site. Petitioner concedes that “remediation has yet to even begin.” (Amended
Opening Brief 17:16-18; see also Amended Opening
Brief 1:10-12 and 12:11-20 and AR 8131, 8184 [acknowledging ongoing and current
contamination of Site].)   
 
The weight of the evidence supports the Board’s
findings Petitioner has “discharged” waste at or from the Site within the
meaning of Water Code section 13304 and the discharges create, or threaten to
create, pollution or nuisance conditions.
 
///
 
///
The Board’s Discretionary Determinations Re:
Primary or Secondary Liability and Which Dischargers to Name in the Final CAO
 
Petitioner argues, in the alternative, even if it
is a “discharger” under Water Code section 13304, the Board abused its
discretion by failing to designate Petitioner as “secondarily liable.”    Relatedly, Petitioner contends
the Board abused its discretion by failing to name any “PRPs” as the
“primarily-liable dischargers” in the Final CAO and “ignor[ing] the PRPs and
evidence of their liability and their ability to bring needed funds to the
cleanup.” (Amended Opening Brief 18:5.)  
 
              Primary
or Secondary Liability 
 
The phrase “secondarily liable” does not appear
in Water Code section 13304 and, apparently, anywhere else within the Water
Code. Petitioner does not cite any regulation applicable to the State Board or regional
boards describing the circumstances requiring a board to name a discharger as
“secondarily liable.” Petitioner also does not cite any appellate court
decisions addressing the issue.  
 
Petitioner does cite past decisions of the State
Board that have distinguished between primary and secondary liability in some
circumstances. (See generally Amended Opening Brief 13:18-14:9.) The Board also
cites decisions of the State Board distinguishing between primary and secondary
liability. (See generally Opposition 20.) Accordingly, based on those precedential
decisions, Respondent appears to have discretion, in some circumstances, to
name a discharger under Water Code section 13304 as primarily or secondarily
liable. To the extent the Board has such discretion, its decision to name a
discharger as primarily or secondarily liable could be reviewed by the court
for abuse of discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
“The [State] Board has cited several factors
which are appropriate for the Regional Water Boards to consider in determining whether
a party should be held secondarily liable. These include: (1) whether or not
the party initiated or contributed to the discharge; and (2) whether those
parties who created or contributed to the discharge are proceeding with
cleanup.” (In the Matter of Petitions of Aluminum Company of America, et al.
(Cal. St. Wat. Res. Bd. 1993) Order No. WQ 93-9, 1993 WL 13672991 at *6,
fn. 8.) Relevant factors include whether “(a) the petitioner did not in any way
initiate or contribute to the actual discharge of waste, (b) the petitioner
does not have the legal right to carry out the cleanup unless its tenant fails
to do so, (c) the lease is for a long term, and (d) the site investigation and
cleanup are proceeding well.”  (In the Matter of the Petition of Prudential Insurance
Company (Cal.
St. Wat. Res. Bd. 1987) Order
No. WQ 87-6, WL 1411952 at *2.)[12]  
 
Under the applicable
factors, Petitioner has not shown the Board abused its discretion in finding Petitioner
to be a primarily liable discharger. The Final CAO
identifies the dischargers as Petitioner and “[MLOC], Estate of Joseph Mouren-Laurens,
Estate of Emma Mouren-Laurens, John Mouren-Laurens and Mireille Mouren-Laurens.”
(AR 8735.) The Final CAO does not distinguish between primary or secondary
liability as to any of the dischargers. (AR 8741.)  Accordingly, the Final CAO is reasonably
interpreted to name all dischargers as primarily liable.  
 
When the Board issued
the Final CAO in 2014, environmental investigations showed elevated concentrations of hazardous
wastes in “soil vapor, soil matrix, and groundwater beneath the Site” and
migration of such wastes to adjacent property. (AR 8738.) Petitioner did not
show, in the administrative proceedings, the contamination and threat to state
waters had been remediated in the many years Petitioner had owned and
controlled the Site. Indeed, Petitioner
concedes “remediation has yet to even begin.” (Amended Opening Brief 17:16-18.)
There is no evidence “investigation and cleanup are proceeding well” or that
any other dischargers are proceeding with cleanup. Given Petitioner’s ownership
and control of the Site, the serious contamination of the soil and groundwater,
and the lack of remediation for many years since Petitioner acquired and
controlled the Site, the weight of the evidence supports the Board’s decision
to name Petitioner (as well as the other dischargers) as a primarily liable
discharger.  
 
              The
Board’s Discretionary Determination of Which Dischargers to Name in the Final CAO
 
The Board contends it has prosecutorial
discretion to determine which dischargers to name in a clean up and abatement
order. The court agrees.
 
“[A]n
agency's decision not to prosecute or enforce, whether through civil or
criminal process, is a decision generally committed to an agency's absolute
discretion. . . . This recognition of the existence of discretion is
attributable in no small part to the general unsuitability for judicial review
of agency decisions to refuse enforcement.” 
(Heckler v.
Chaney (1985) 470 U.S. 821, 831.)   
 
This
principle applies in both civil and criminal matters in which an agency or
public officer has enforcement discretion. (See People v. Karriker
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 763, 786; accord People v. Cimarusti (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 314, 322-323; Dix v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 442,
451; Gananian v. Wagstaffe (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1545-1546; Schwartz v. Poizner (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 592, 597-598.) 

 
The Board’s statutory authority to name persons or entities as
dischargers in a clean up and abatement order issued pursuant to Water Code section
13304 is a matter of prosecutorial discretion. While the court may review the
Board’s findings and decision to name Petitioner as a discharger, the court
cannot compel the Board to exercise its enforcement discretion in a particular
manner with respect to persons or entities not named in the Final CAO. Petitioner
cites no authority to the contrary.  Accordingly,
for this reason, the court rejects Petitioner’s argument the Board abused its
discretion in failing to name “any PRPs” as responsible parties in the Final CAO.
(See Amended Opening Brief 15:6-18:10.)[13]  
 
Respondent’s Investigatory Authority Under Water
Code Section 13267
 
The Final CAO requires investigation and cleanup of the Site pursuant
to Water Code section 13304. (AR 8741.) As noted, Petitioner has not
demonstrated any prejudicial abuse of discretion by the Board in the Final CAO
on those issues.
 
The Final CAO also requires submission of technical or monitoring
reports pursuant to Water Code section 13267. (AR 8741.) Water Code section
13267 authorizes a regional water board to “investigate the quality of any
waters of the state within its region.” (Wat. Code, § 13267, subd. (a).) In
conducting such investigations, the regional board “may require that any person
who has discharged, discharges, or is suspected of having discharged or
discharging . . . waste within its region . . . shall furnish, under penalty of
perjury, technical or monitoring program reports which the regional board
requires.” (Id., subd. (b)(1).)  
 
The findings and evidence discussed earlier support the Board’s investigatory
order under Water Code section 13267. Petitioner concedes if the “discharger”
findings under Water Code section 13304 are supported by the weight of the
evidence, then the Board also had the authority to issue an investigatory order
pursuant to Water Code section 13267. (Amended Opening Brief 11, fn. 1.) Other
than those arguments discussed earlier, Petitioner has not developed any
argument suggesting the Board’s findings under Water Code section 13267 were
deficient. 
 
For the reasons discussed earlier, the court finds the Board’s findings
and decision to issue an investigatory order under Water Code section 13267 are
supported by the weight of the evidence and were therefore not a prejudicial
abuse of discretion.  
 
Has Respondent Required Petitioner to Clean Up
the Leach TSDF?; and, if so, Has Respondent Abused its Discretion?
 
Petitioner contends that “in implementing the [Final] CAO, Respondent has gone
beyond the jurisdiction allowed under the express language of that order,
limiting Respondent’s cleanup obligations to discharged contamination ‘at’ the
[Site]. Respondent has insisted Petitioner assess, monitor and remediate, contamination
at and from an independently permitted, belching hazardous waste treatment
facility (‘Leach TSDF’) next door.” (Amended Opening Brief 1:12-16.)  
 
For support, Petitioner cites
primarily to evidence outside the administrative record. (See Amended Opening
Brief 14:13-14 [citing augment motion at Exh. 22, 25].) The exhibits are not
before the court and not in the administrative record.
 
Further, Petitioner is
incorrect when it argues the Final “CAO expressly limits the named dischargers’
cleanup and abatement obligations only to discharges that are ‘at the ML Property.’
” (Amended Opening Brief 14:16-17, [citing AR 8735-36].) The Final CAO states
Petitioner “shall investigate, cleanup, and abate the effects of waste
discharged or deposited at or from the Site.” (AR 8742 [emphasis
added].) The Final CAO also states
that “Discharges of waste at the MLOC Site have commingled with discharges of
waste at the LOC Site. The Regional Board is also overseeing assessment,
cleanup, and remediation of the Leach Oil
Company
site.” (AR 8738.) While the “Required Actions” in the Final CAO primarily apply
to the Site, there could be circumstances under which the Board, consistent
with the Final CAO and Water Code sections 13304 and 13267, permissibly
requires Petitioner to investigate or abate discharges of waste that are migrating,
or have migrated, from the Site. Petitioner has cited no authority to the
contrary.
 
Petitioner
also fails to meet its burden of proof and persuasion in this proceeding with
respect to the Leach TSDF. Petitioner represents “Respondent has demanded that
Petitioner include the full Leach TSDF site in virtually all assessments and
cleanup plans.” (Amended Opening Brief 14:11-12.) Petitioner also states: “To obtain Respondent’s approval, virtually all
assessment reports cover both sites. [MTA Ex 25 p. 9]. Respondent rejected
Petitioner’s proposed RAP for not including the Leach TSDF site. [MTA Ex 22 p.
3.].” (Amended Opening Brief 14:12-14.)  
 
Even if it were proper
for the court to consider the extra-record evidence proffered, Petitioner has
not explained how such exhibits support its position. Exhibit 25 is a complaint
for injunctive relief and civil liability filed by the Board in January 2023 in
state court. Petitioner does not explain how any statements on page 9 of the
complaint (or other pages) support its position the Board has exceeded the
scope of the Final CAO or its statutory authority.  
 
Exhibit 22 is letter
from the Board to Petitioner dated April 28, 2020 discussing the Board’s review
of a technical report and Remedial Action Plan submitted by Petitioner’s
environmental consultant related to the Site. Petitioner does not explain how
any statements on page 3 of the letter (or other pages) support its position the
Board has exceeded the scope of the Final CAO or its statutory authority. Accordingly,
the court is not persuaded by Petitioner’s claims relying on extra-record
evidence.
 
While the
argument is not developed, Petitioner may rely on statements in Respondent’s
letter (Exhibit 22) that Petitioner is “responsible for remediating groundwater
beneath and downgradient of the MLOC site,” and Petitioner is “considered a
responsible party in the CAO and required to conduct the onsite and offsite
assessment and cleanup of all COCs in soil, soil vapor, and groundwater sourced
from the MLOC site.” (Exh. 22 at p. 3.) These statements in the Board’s letter
appear consistent with the Final CAO and Water Code section 13304. Petitioner
has not argued or shown to the contrary. 

 
Notably,
under Water Code section 13304, subdivision (a), a discharger “shall, upon order of the regional board, clean up the waste
or abate the effects of the waste, or, in the case of threatened pollution or
nuisance, take other necessary remedial action, including, but not limited to,
overseeing cleanup and abatement efforts.” The statute does not limit the Board’s
authority to the property from which the waste originated. Rather, the statute
necessarily grants the Board authority to require a discharger to investigate, abate,
and/or cleanup contamination that has migrated off site. (See e.g. Tesoro Refining
& Marketing Co. LLC v. Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Bd., supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at 459 [“Regional
Board ordered OOI to complete onsite and offsite assessments of dissolved
groundwater contamination”].)  
 
On this
record and the parties’ briefing, Petitioner does not show any prejudicial
abuse of discretion in the manner the Board has implemented the Final CAO. The
court reaches this conclusion regardless of whether Petitioner’s arguments
related to “implementation” are reviewed under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5 or Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, and regardless of whether
Petitioner’s extra-record exhibits are considered. Therefore, the court need
not address the Board’s related exhaustion defense.  (Opposition 18:16-27.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s FAP is denied
in its entirety.   
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
October 13, 2023                                                                                                                                          


________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


