  Case Number:  23SMCV01255    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Creditors
Adjustment Bureau Inc., v. Aram Construction Company
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01255
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   9/6/2024
 

Legal
Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP section 2031.010 inspection demand, the demanding party must
seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. Thus,
unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he
or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no
showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
Pursuant to CCP section
2033.280(b), a party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not result in
automatic admissions. Rather, the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under §
2023.010 et seq.” (CCP, § 2033.280(b).) The court “shall” grant the motion to
deem RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (CCP, § 2033.280(c).) 
  
ANALYSIS 
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. moves to compel Defendant
Aram Construction Company to provide initial responses to Plaintiff's Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; and
that the Request for Admission, Set One, be deemed admitted. Plaintiff also
requests sanctions against Defendant and counsel of record, F. Michael
Sabzevar, in the amount of $1,560.00 for the reasonable expenses and attorney's
fees incurred by the moving party in connection with this motion.
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with the subject
discovery. (Jun Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendant did not timely respond to the subject
discovery. (Id., ¶ 4.) 
In opposition, Defendant filed a declaration of counsel, who takes
blame for not responding to the Request for Admission, Set One, and states that
he has served substantially code-compliant responses to the requests. (Sabzevar
Decl., Ex. A.) Counsel’s declaration does not address the RPDs or FROGs. In
reply, Plaintiff notes that Defendant has provided substantive responses to the
FROGs. Accordingly, the motions are MOOT as to the FROGs and the RFAs.
Defendant does not address the RPDs at all, and the responses are
still outstanding. Therefore, the motion to compel is GRANTED as to RPD, set
one. Mandatory sanctions are granted in the reduced total amount of $2,180.00
against Defendant and counsel of record. Sanctions are to be paid to
Plaintiff’s counsel of record within 30 days. 
Responses are ordered within 10 days.