 Case Number:  23SMCV04076    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Berokhiim v. Whirlpool
Corp., et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV04076
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
HEARING DATE:   9/6/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A defendant . . . may serve
and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .”  (CCP § 418.10(a).) A court lacks jurisdiction
over a party if there has not been proper service of process. (Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc.
v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the
statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at
1441-1442.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
412.30 provides that “[i]n an action against a corporation or an unincorporated
association (including a partnership), the copy of the summons that is served
shall contain a notice stating in substance: ‘To the person served: You are
hereby served in the within action (or special proceeding) on behalf of (here
state the name of the corporation or the unincorporated association) as a
person upon whom a copy of the summons and of the complaint may be delivered to
effect service on said party under the provisions of (here state appropriate
provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10) of the Code of Civil
Procedure).’” (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.30.) The provisions of this section are
mandatory and service of a summons that does not comply with this section is
ineffective. (Tresway Aero, Inc. v. Superior Court (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431,
435.) 
 
To effectuate service on a
corporation, summons may be delivered to the agent for service of process, or to
the president, chief executive officer, other head of the corporation, vice
president, secretary or assistant secretary, treasurer or assistant treasurer,
controller or chief financial officer, general manager, or any other person
authorized by the corporation to receive service of process. (CCP § 416.10(a),
(b); see CCP, § 416.40 [unincorporated organizations]; CCP, § 415.95 [business
organization unknown].)A general manager includes any agent of the corporation
“of sufficient character and rank to make it reasonably certain that the
defendant will be apprised of the service made.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene
Research, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant 3M Purification, S. DE
R.L. DE C.V. moves to quash the service of summons because Plaintiff failed to
effect proper service on the Mexican Entity, a foreign corporation, pursuant to
the Hague Convention on Service Abroad of Judicial Documents.
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff named
Defendant as doe 3, with the true name of “3M Purification, S. DE R.L. DE C.V.,
a business entity, form unknown.” Defendant was served via “Crystal Collins -
Customer service associate c/o CSC- Lawyers Inc. Services, agent for service of
process.” Defendant presents evidence that CSC-Lawyers Inc. is not a registered
agent for service of process of Defendant. (Hamilton Decl., ¶5.) Thus,
Plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating jurisdiction.
 
Plaintiff argues that they complied
with the service of process requirements on a foreign corporation by delivering
to its “general manager” in this State, co-defendant 3M Purification Inc.
(“3MPI”), through 3MPI’s agent for service of process registered with the
Secretary of State. (See Yamaha Motor Co. v. Superior Ct. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 264, 273-74 [no need to serve papers on a foreign manufacturer in
accord with the Hague Service Convention, where the foreign manufacturer was
validly served through its American subsidiary as a “general manager in this
state”]; Corp. Code § 2110 [delivery of process by hand valid “(a) to any
officer of the corporation or its general manager in this state…, (b) to any
natural person designated by it as agent for the service of process, or (c), if
the corporation has designated a corporate agent, to any person named in the
latest certificate”]
 
Plaintiff argues that a local
subsidiary of a foreign parent corporation is deemed the parent’s “general
manager in this State,” regardless of whether the subsidiary has any real
control or managerial responsibility over the foreign parent corporation's
activities.  (Yamaha, supra,
174 Cal.App.4th at 274.) However, Yamaha does not hold that a local
subsidiary is per se a general manager in this State. In Yamaha, the
American subsidiary was found to be a general manager in this state because it had
an exclusive arrangement to sell the manufacturer's products, provided warranty
services and English owner manuals, performed testing and marketing, and
received complaints about the manufacturer's products. (Id.; see also Cosper
v. Smith and Wesson (1959) 53 Cal.2d 77 [service on salesman was valid on
the corporation itself, where the salesman was the general manager in this
State because the company had a non-exclusive promotion contract with the
salesman for the West Coast, and that the salesman was in “ample regular
contact” so that it was “reasonably certain” that the representative would
apprise the manufacturer of the service].)
 
Notably, there is no evidence on
the record that 3MPI owns any portion of the moving Defendant, or that it is
reasonably certain service on 3MPI’s agent would result in notice to Defendant.
Instead, Plaintiff submits evidence that the EPA’s webpage identifies 3M
Purification, S. DE R.L. DE C.V. as the “Establishment Name” associated with
the defective water filter with an address in Mexico. Plaintiff notes that the EPA’s
webpage also identifies “C/O 3M COMPANY” under the section entitled
“Establishment Mailing Address Line 1” with an address in St. Paul, MN, and
directing attention to Lina Murray. Plaintiff contends that this demonstrates
Defendant is a general manager in this state. Plaintiff does not explain the
logic behind this conclusion. If anything, these documents show that some
company named “3M COMPANY” might have some relationship with Defendant, but not
that 3MPI has any relationship with Defendant. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.