Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV25323
Plaintiff's Name: 
Defendant's Name: HLW International LLP
People-Names: 
Company-Names:
HLW International LLP
Places:
Project location (not specified)
Dates:
September 2020, November 17, 2020, November 19, 2020, February 16, 2021, March 15, 2024
Events:
Termination of contract, certification letter, payment disputes
Money:
Additional costs associated with a "for convenience" termination
Intentions:
Defendant's alleged intention to induce breach of contract
Facts:
Plaintiff is a general contractor who alleged that Defendant issued an unfounded and fabricated "for cause" termination certification
Disputes:
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, lack of causation, lack of independently wrongful act
Acts:
Certification letter, pressure on Defendant to provide documentation, termination of contract
Agreements:
Contract between Plaintiff and Owner
Laws:
California Civil Code, Business and Professions Code, Evidence Code
Case Citations:
Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998), 1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003), Reeves v. Hanlon (2004), Sole Energy Co. v. Petrominerals Corp. (2005), Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003), Gray v. Don Miller & Associates, Inc. (1984), Kenly v. Ukegawa (1993), Kwikset, Inc. v. Superior Court (2011), Rincon Band of Luiseño Mission Indians etc. v. Flyn (2021), Shersher v. Superior Court (2007)
Statutes:
California Civil Code, Business and Professions Code, Evidence Code
Roles:
Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The Court does not desire oral argument on the motion.
* The case is ordered dismissed with prejudice.
* The demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
* The essential element of causation is not pled.
* The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend, unless Plaintiff can demonstrate a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English:

The Court has issued a tentative ruling dismissing the case with prejudice. The Plaintiff, a general contractor, alleged that the Defendant, HLW International LLP, issued an unfounded and fabricated "for cause" termination certification to the Owner of the project, allowing the Owner to terminate the contract and avoid paying additional costs associated with a "for convenience" termination.

The Court found that the Plaintiff's allegations did not plead a valid cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations, inducing breach of contract, or unfair business practices. Specifically, the Court found that the Plaintiff did not plead a valid basis for the alleged causation, and that the Defendant did not commit an independently wrongful act.

The Court also found that the Plaintiff did not plead a valid claim for fraud, as the alleged concealment of facts was fabricated and did not cause any actual loss or damage to the Plaintiff.

Finally, the Court found that the Plaintiff did not plead a valid claim for unfair business practices under the Business and Professions Code, as the alleged injury was not economic in nature and did not affect the Plaintiff personally.

The Court denied the Plaintiff's request for leave to amend the complaint, finding that any amendments would be futile.