  Case Number:  20STCV19835    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to install an HVAC and plumbing system in accordance with the
agreement, and perform substandard work.
            On February
15, 2024, following a jury trial, the jury rendered a verdict in favor of
Plaintiff on certain causes of action.
            Defendant
American Contractors Indemnity Company moves for judgment against Plaintiff.
            Plaintiff
makes a cross-motion for judgment against Defendant American Contractors
Indemnity Company.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant American Contractors
Indemnity Company’s motion for judgment against Plaintiff is DENIED.
            Plaintiff
Mei Xi Zhang’s cross-motion for judgment against Defendant American Contractors
Indemnity Company is DENIED.
ANALYSIS
Motion For
Judgment/Cross-Motion For Judgment
Defendant American Contractors
Indemnity Company moves for judgment against Plaintiff pursuant to Civ. Proc.
Code, § 630(f), which provides: 
(f) When the jury for any reason
has been discharged without having rendered a verdict, the court on its own
motion or upon motion of a party, notice of which was given within 10 days
after discharge of the jury, may order judgment to be entered in favor of a
party whenever a motion for directed verdict for that party should have been
granted had a previous motion been made. Except as otherwise provided in
Section 12a, the power of the court to act under the provisions of this section
shall expire 30 days after the day upon which the jury was discharged, and if
judgment has not been ordered within that time the effect shall be the denial
of any motion for judgment without further order of the court.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 630(f).) 
Defendant argues as follows:
1. Defendant AMERICAN CONTRACTORS
INDEMNITY COMPANY is named as a Defendant in the Ninth Cause of Action[1] in
Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint on file herein;
2. Defendant AMERICAN CONTRACTORS
INDEMNITY COMPANY filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on
August 26, 2020, generally denying all material allegations and raising various
affirmative defenses;
3. This action proceeded to trial
by jury on February 6, 2024;
4. Plaintiff rested her case
without mentioning Defendant American Contractors Indemnity Company and without
offering any specific evidence relating to said Defendant;
5. The evidence at trial viewed in
a light most favorable to Plaintiff is insufficient as a matter of law to
support the Ninth Cause of Action for Recovery on Contractor’s Bond against Defendant
AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY;
6. The jury was discharged on
February 15, 2024 without rendering a verdict on any causes action against
Defendant AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDEMNITY COMPANY;
7. Defendant AMERICAN CONTRACTORS
INDEMNITY COMPANY is entitled to a judgment in its favor and against Plaintiff,
as a matter of law.
            Plaintiff
makes an amended cross-motion for judgment against Defendant American Contractors
Indemnity Company pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 630(f) and Civ. Proc. Code, §
996.440(a), which provides:
(a) If a bond is given in an action or proceeding, the liability on
the bond may be enforced on motion made in the court without the necessity of
an independent action.
 
(b) The motion shall not be made until after entry of the final
judgment in the action or proceeding in which the bond is given and
the time for appeal has expired or, if an appeal is taken, until the appeal is
finally determined. The motion shall not be made or notice of motion served
more than one year after the later of the preceding dates.
 
(c) Notice of motion shall be served on the principal and sureties at
least 30 days before the time set for hearing of the motion. The notice
shall state the amount of the claim and shall be supported by affidavits
setting forth the facts on which the claim is based. The notice and
affidavits shall be served in accordance with any procedure authorized by
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010).
 
(d) Judgment shall be entered against the principal and sureties in
accordance with the motion unless the principal or sureties serve and file
affidavits in opposition to the motion showing such facts as may be deemed by
the judge hearing the motion sufficient to present a triable issue of fact. If such a showing is made, the issues to be tried shall be
specified by the court. Trial shall be by the court and shall be set for the
earliest date convenient to the court, allowing sufficient time for such discovery
proceedings as may be requested.
 
(e) The principal and sureties shall not obtain a stay of the
proceedings pending determination of any conflicting claims among beneficiaries.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 996.440 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Plaintiff’s motion pursuant to Civ.
Proc. Code, § 996.440 is premature because there has been no final judgment
entered in this action with the appeals period having been exhausted. As such,
Plaintiff’s motion for judgment is DENIED.
            By that same token, however, it is
clear from the language of Civ. Proc. Code, § 996.440 that judgment against the
bond and sureties is to be determined by the judge by way of a noticed motion
on affidavits or by court trial if there are triable issues. As noted, this
determination must be made after final judgment entered in this action with the
appeals period having been exhausted. As such, Defendant’s motion for judgment
is also DENIED.
 


