 Case Number:  20STCV47977    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
alleges that she was subjected to sex and disability harassment and
discrimination, forcing Plaintiff to take a medical leave, and was further
harassed upon her return.
 
            Defendant
Rogelio Navarete filed a Cross-Complaint alleging that Plaintiff’s allegations
have caused him emotional distress
 
The Court granted Cross-Defendant
Sandra Goumghar’s anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the Cross-Complaint
filed by Defendant Rogelio Navarete.
 
            Defendants
Wal-Mart Associates, Inc. and Sam’s Club move to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
and to compel a mental examination of Plaintiff.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants
Wal-Mart Associates, Inc. and Sam’s Club’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition is GRANTED. Defendants shall be entitled to a full day of
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, limited to the allegations in the
Supplemental Complaint. No sanctions were requested.
 
            The
hearing on Defendants’ motion to compel a mental examination of Plaintiff is
CONTINUED to March 29, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Defendants are to submit a Declaration
of Dr. Greenberger which addresses the above-identified deficiencies by March
22, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Compel Deposition
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff’s deposition regarding the allegations in her Supplemental
Complaint.
 
Civ Proc. Code § 2025.450 provides
in pertinent part:
 
(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following:
 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.

(Civ.
Proc. Code., § 2025.450(a) & (b).)
 
            Here,
the Declaration of Bree A. Oswald reflects that Defendants’ counsel engaged in
sufficient meet and confer efforts prior to bringing this motion. 
 
            Because
it does not appear that the deposition notice requested production of any
documents, good cause for production need not be shown. (Oswald Decl., Exh. A.)
 
            Plaintiff
does not dispute that Defendants are entitled to depose her as to the allegations
of the Supplemental Complaint, but takes the position that the deposition
should only be 2 – 4 hours. Given that Plaintiff did not move for a protective
order, and Plaintiff does not cite any authority for the proposition that a
deposition as to a supplemental complaint may be limited in this manner,
Plaintiff’s position is not well-taken.
 
            The
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Defendants shall be entitled
to a full day of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, limited to the allegations
in the Supplemental Complaint.
 
            No
sanctions were requested.
 
Motion To Compel Mental
Exam
 
            Defendants
Wal-Mart Associates, Inc. and Sam’s Club move to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
and to compel a mental examination of Plaintiff.
 
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 2032.020(a) provides in relevant part:
 
(a) Any party may
obtain discovery, subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 2019.010), by means of a . . . mental examination
of (1) a party to the action, . . . in any action in which the mental . . .
condition . . . of that party . . .  is
in controversy in the action.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code § 2032.020(a).)
 
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2032.310 provides:
 
(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by . . . a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.
 
(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to be
examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.)
 
            Civ. Proc. Code, §
2032.320 provides in pertinent part:
(a)  The court shall grant
a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for
good cause shown.
. . .
(d)  An order granting a
physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.
. . .
(Civ. Proc. Code, § 2032.320(a) & (d).)
 
            Here, Defendants’
counsel Bree Oswald has submitted a declaration reflecting a sufficient meet
and confer effort. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Complaint deemed filed on August 3, 2023 alleges:
 
16. The following alleged facts occurred after the
filing of the original complaint in this action: 
 
a) Ms. Goumghar returned to work from medical leave
on or about September 5, 2022. She continued to work with restrictions. 
 
b) On or about September 12, 2022, Ms. Goumghar was
told by her manager, Mike Ruiz, that that the Greeter position, Ms. Goumghar’s
current position, was being eliminated and that she should resign and receive a
severance package. Mr. Ruiz was well aware that Ms. Goumghar was represented by
counsel and that a lawsuit was already pending. Regardless, Mr. Ruiz engaged
with Ms. Goumghar without her attorneys present and convinced her to sign a
paper indicating that she was resigning and accepting a severance package.
Ostensibly, the severance package was the motivating factor utilized by WalMart
to secure employee resignations. At no time during this conversation was the
amount of the severance package disclosed to Ms. Goumghar. To date, Ms.
Goumghar has not received a severance package. 
 
c) On or about September 14, 2022, Ms. Goumghar
emailed District Manager Brenda Caldera and rescinded her resignation and
acceptance of a severance package. Ms. Goumghar has not received any severance
package to date. 
 
d) Plaintiff was wrongfully terminated due to her
disabilities on or about September 12, 2022
 
     (Supplemental Complaint, ¶
16.)
 
21. As a direct and legal result of the acts and
omissions of Defendant Wal-Mart and DOES 1 through 100, and each of them, Plaintiff
was rendered sick, sore, lame, disabled and/or disordered, both internally and
externally, and suffered, among other things, numerous internal injuries,
severe fright, shock, pain, discomfort and/or anxiety. 
 
22. As a further legal result of the acts and
omissions of Defendant Wal-Mart and DOES 1 through 100, and each of them,
Plaintiff may have been forced to incur expenses for medical care, X-rays,
and/or laboratory costs during the period of Plaintiff’s disability, and is
informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that he may in the future be forced
to incur additional expenses of the same nature, all in an amount which is at
present unknown.
 
23. Prior to the occurrence of the incidents,
Plaintiff was an able-bodied individual, but since said incidents may have
been unable to engage fully in Plaintiff’s occupation, and is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges, that Plaintiff will be incapacitated and/or
unable to perform Plaintiff’s usual work for an indefinite period of time in
the future, all to Plaintiff’s damage in an amount which is at present
unascertained. Plaintiff will pray leave of court to show the total amount of
loss of earnings at the time of trial. 
 
24. As a further direct and legal result of the acts
and conduct of Defendant Wal-Mart and DOES 1 through 100, as aforesaid,
Plaintiff has been caused, and did suffer, and continues to suffer severe and
permanent emotional and mental distress and anguish, humiliation,
embarrassment, fright, shock, pain, discomfort and/or anxiety. The exact
nature and extent of said injuries is presently unknown to Plaintiff, who will
pray leave of court to assert the same when they are ascertained.
 
     (Supplemental
Complaint, ¶¶ 21 – 24 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Similar
allegations are contained at ¶¶ 34, 38 – 41, 51, 56 – 58, 67, 72 – 74, 95 – 97.
 
            A
plaintiff’s mental condition is only “in controversy” in the action for
purposes of an IME if the plaintiff claims that emotional distress is
continuing/ongoing, not if it is only in the past. (Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1883-87.) Here,
Plaintiff has chosen to place her mental condition in controversy in this action.
(Civ. Proc. Code, § 2032.020(a).) 
 
            The
notice of motion only identifies the person who will perform the examination—Dr. Dennis
Greenberger, PhD, in person—and the place—Anxiety and Depression Center, 1500
Quail Street, Suite 250, Newport Beach, California 92660. The notice of motion
does not set forth a date or time for the proposed examination, only mentioning
Dr. Greenberger’s first availability in advance of trial. In this regard, the motion
does not comply with the requirements of Civ. Proc. Code, § 2032.310(b). Defendants
are to obtain a firm date and time of the examination from Dr. Greenberger.
 
            The notice of motion
goes on to state as follows:
 
1. Dr. Greenberger shall conduct a complete examination focusing on
alleged injuries including, but not limited to, emotional and mental distress
that Plaintiff claims to have sustained as result of her employment with
Defendants. 
 
2. Dr. Greenberger will ask Plaintiff questions relating to: (1) a
history of the present 
condition, (2) a past psychological history, and (3) a developmental
history. There will not be inquiry into the conduct, events, or circumstances
alleged to have produced or contributed to the Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants, other than is necessary for purposes of diagnosis and evaluation of
Plaintiff’s injuries, symptoms, and conditions. 
 
3. The exam will consist of a face-to-face clinical interview and
written psychological 
tests.   
 
4. The face-to-face portion of the evaluation shall consist of a
standard clinical interview and may address the following areas (among others):
History of Difficulties, Subjective 
Complaints and Course of Complaints, Psychological and Psychiatric
History, Alcohol and Drug History, Medical History, Educational History, Family
History, Marital and Social History, Legal History, Occupational History, and a
Mental Status Examination. 
 
5. The psychological testing shall be determined under the sole
discretion of Dr. 
Greenberger and may consist of psychological testing
including, but not limited to, the following:  
 
¿ Beck Depression Inventory; 
¿ Beck Anxiety Inventory; and 
¿ MMPI II. 
 
6. Dr. Greenberger may use, and Plaintiff shall cooperate in the use
of, accepted 
diagnostic instruments, examinations, tests, and techniques. Dr.
Greenberger will not use any diagnostic tests or procedures that are unduly
painful, protracted, or intrusive. Dr. Greenberger’s examination will operate
under accepted industry standards of practice for forensic psychological examinations.

 
7. No person other than Plaintiff and Dr. Greenberger will be present
in the examination 
room during the interview. However, Plaintiff may bring someone for
emotional support, who will be permitted to wait in the lobby during the
examination.  
 
8. Dr. Greenberger shall audio record the interview portion of the
examination. No 
other audio recording of the exam will be permitted. Neither party may
video record the 
examination. 
 
9. Plaintiff shall allow approximately eight (8) hours for completion
of the examination, 
excluding lunch and rest breaks, as needed. 10. In the event Plaintiff
fails to cancel this appointment less than (1) business day prior to the
appointment date, Plaintiff will be responsible for the late cancellation fee
of $1,500. Should Plaintiff fail to appear for the examination as scheduled,
Plaintiff will be responsible for the No-Show Appointment fee of $3,000 charged
by Dr. Greenberger. 
 
11. The audio recording and reporting related to this mental
examination will be used 
solely for purposes of this lawsuit, will be shared only with the
parties, their counsel, their counsel’s support staff, and retained experts or
consultants in this lawsuit, including, but not limited to, Plaintiff’s
treating physicians or mental health practitioners, and will not be shown or
provided to any other person. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit or
preclude the use of these materials at the time of trial, in depositions, or as
otherwise necessary for purposes of this lawsuit. 
 
12. Any raw data, scoring, or interpretive reporting related to this
mental examination is 
acknowledged to be under a strict copyright and proprietary framework
and will not be shared with counsel for either party. Any raw data resulting
from this mental examination will be provided to Plaintiff’s corresponding
psychological expert directly, upon request. This data is not to be shared outside
the scope of expert to expert correspondence and must be immediately destroyed
upon conclusion of this litigation. 
 
13. If Plaintiff fails to comply with this mental examination,
Defendant may seek 
sanctions in an amount necessary to pay any charges of Dr. Greenberger
and also for reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs that may be required to
enforce compliance.
 
     (Notice of Motion, Pages 3:6
– 5:1 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            By making an
open-ended reference to tests Dr. Greenberger “may” conduct, “including but not
limited to” the three tests listed, the motion does not comply with Civ. Proc.
Code, § 2032.320(d), which requires that the diagnostic tests and procedures be
specified. In this regard, Dr. Greenberger must specify exactly which tests he
will administer.
 
            On the merits:
 
“A mental examination
conducted under this chapter shall be performed only by a licensed physician, or
by a licensed clinical psychologist who holds a doctoral degree in psychology
and has had at least five years of postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of
emotional and mental disorders.”  
 
(Code Civ. Proc, § 2032.020(c)(1)[bold emphasis
added].) 
 
            There is
no indication that Dr. Greenberger meets the qualifications set forth in §
2032.020.
 
            Accordingly,
the hearing on Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination is
CONTINUED to March 29, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Defendants are to submit a Declaration
of Dr. Greenberger which addresses the above-identified deficiencies by March
22, 2024.
 
 