


[1] Because the Court finds these allegations sufficient
to state a cause of action, it need not address Zdanow’s PPP loan arguments.

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04660




MOTION


Motion
  for Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Claude Zdanow




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Main Street Corridor, LLC 



 
MOTION
 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff Main Street Corridor, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brought suit against Defendants Claude Zdanow; Stadiumred Group; Stadiumred;
and Stadiumred, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two causes of action
for (1) constructively fraudulent transfer and (2) fraudulent transfer.  
 
Defendant Claude Zdanow (“Zdanow”) moves for terminating and monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 based on the claims Plaintiff alleges against Zdanow in
the complaint.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Zdanow replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 states that a court
may impose sanctions on a party or attorney that presents a pleading, petition,
motion, or other similar papers that does not meet the following criteria:  
(1) It is not being
presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause
unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) The claims, defenses,
and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law.
(3) The allegations and
other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so
identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable
opportunity for further investigation or discovery.
(4) The denials of factual
contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified,
are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.
(Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7, subd. (b)(1)-(4); see also Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
967, 976 [a violation of any of the criteria under subdivision (b) may give
rise to sanctions].)  In addition, Section 128.7 does not require a
finding of subjective bad faith; instead it requires only that a court find
that the conduct be objectively unreasonable.  (See In re Marriage of Reese & Guy
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1221.) 
 
Further, under Section 128.7, a court may impose sanctions
if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was
indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. (Bucur v. Ahmad
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189-190.)  A
claim is factually frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and is
legally frivolous if it is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.”  (Ibid.)  In either case, to obtain sanctions, the
moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting the claim was
objectively unreasonable.  (Ibid.)
 A claim is objectively unreasonable if
“any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and completely
without merit.”  (Ibid.) However,
“section 128.7 sanctions should be ‘made with restraint’ [Citation], and are
not mandatory even if a claim is frivolous.”  (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428, 448.) 
 
Under Section
128.7, a court “may issue sanctions, including . . . terminating sanctions against a party for
filing a complaint that is legally or factually frivolous.”  (Kumar v. Ramsey (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
1110, 1120.)  A court has broad
discretion to impose sanctions if the moving party satisfies the elements of
Section 128.7.  (Peake v.
Underwood, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 441.)  
 
Here, on October 3, 2021, Plaintiff filed the complaint
against Defendants alleging claims for constructive fraudulent transfer
and fraudulent transfer.  As discussed
more fully in the concurrent tentative ruling overruling Zdanow’s demurrer to
the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that in 2017, it entered into a commercial lease
agreement with non-party to the lawsuit, Mediakix; in 2019, Stadiumred (owed by
Zdanow) acquired Mediakix and ceased making rent payments to Plaintiff, even
though Medaikix was solvent at the time of acquisition, and then diverted all
of Mediakix’s funds and assets elsewhere, obtaining two PPP loans on behalf of
Stadiumred in the interim, neither of which were used to pay Plaintiff any rent.  (See Compl. ¶¶ 10-14, 18-21, 23-32.)  
 
Plaintiff also alleges
that Stadiumred’s acquisition of Mediakix assigned the lease to Stadiumred,
pursuant to the terms of the lease. 
(Compl. ¶ 21.)  Finally, Plaintiff
alleges on information and belief that Zdanow has similarly drained other
companies it has acquired of all their assets, including SevenBlue, Magic
Bullet Media, and Gyrosity Projects. 
(Compl. ¶ 14.)
 
Zdanow argues (1) there is no legal or factual basis
obligating Stadiumred to pay Mediakix’s rent under the lease because the plain
terms of the contract demonstrate that the conditions for an assignment to
occur are not met and the law forbids using PPP loan funds for that purpose;
and (2) Plaintiff misrepresents that Mediakix’s last rent payment was in 2019,
when the evidence demonstrates its rent was paid in full through March 2020, with
two partial payments made thereafter for April and May 2020, intentionally
concealing the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Mediakix’s ability
to continue paying rent.
 
In support, Zdanow provides the Declaration of Claude
Zdanow, attached to which is a copy of the lease, the repayment agreement, and a
copy of Mediakix’s rent payment records, indicating:
 
a. $18,565 paid on 12/30/2019 [January 2020 rent payment] 
 
b. $18,697 paid on 01/28/2020 [February 2020 rent payment] 
 
c. $18,565 paid on 02/24/2020 [March 2020 rent payment] 
 
d. $4,933 paid on 04/17/2020 [partial April 2020 rent payment] 
 
e. $4,933 paid on 05/04/2020 [partial May 2020 rent payment]
 
(Zdanow Decl. ¶ 5.)  Zdanow further declares:  
 
7. On or about January 1, 2020, following months of negotiations, SRI
acquired a majority ownership stake in Mediakix from Evan Asano, Mediakix’s
founder and then-CEO. The acquisition did not include or involve an assignment
of the Lease to SRI, nor did it otherwise result in SRI becoming obligated to
pay rent to Plaintiff. To be clear, the Lease was never assigned to SRI at any
time. At no time did SRI ever conduct business from, maintain a physical office
at, or become a tenant at, the Premises. 
 
8. Following SRI’s acquisition of Mediakix, it quickly became
apparent that Mr. Asano had misrepresented Mediakix’s financial health during
negotiations—far from being a financially solid company, revenue was falling
off quickly and Mediakix was on the verge of experiencing severe cashflow
problems. Mr. Asano quickly went on leave, golden parachute in hand, leaving
the remainder of Mediakix’s executive team to work with SRI in an attempt to
keep the business from failing. 
 
9. For the first couple months of 2020, it appeared that these
collaborative efforts to keep Mediakix afloat might be successful. And despite
its financial difficulties, Mediakix continued to timely pay rent in full for
multiple months after its acquisition by SRI. At no time did Mediakix transfer
any assets to me whatsoever. 
 
10. Unfortunately, the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the
associated nationwide economic shutdown, was the final nail in the coffin for
Mediakix. After paying rent in full for January, February, and March 2020,
Mediakix was only able to make partial rent payments for April 2020 and May
2020. 
 
11. In light of Mediakix’s inability to pay rent, the parties began
looking for a new tenant to take over the Premises—that search was ultimately
successful in May 2021 when they identified Swyft Technologies US Inc.
(“Swyft”) as a suitable subtenant. 
 
12. SRI applied for and received two PPP loans, the first in April
2020 and the second in March 2021. SRI certified on its PPP applications that
the loans would be used to meet its payroll costs, which were approximately $1
million per month at that time. In accordance with that certification nearly
all of SRI’s PPP funds were then used to make payroll, with minor amounts spent
on other authorized and forgivable expenses.
 
(Zdanow Decl. ¶¶ 7-12.)
            As discussed in the concurrent tentative ruling on
Zdanow’s demurrer, Plaintiff alleges that prior to Stadiumred’s acquisition of
Mediakix, Mediakix was solvent, and that upon Stadiumred’s acquisition,
Mediakix suddenly stopped making rent payments to Plaintiff, and was eventually
determined to be insolvent, because Zdanow and Stadiumred fraudulently
transferred Mediakix’s pre-acquisition funds and assets to themselves.  Further, Plaintiff alleges Zdanow has a
pattern of depleting other companies he acquires of all their funds and assets
in the same manner.  As such, Plaintiff
adequately alleges a fraudulent transfer and the Court did not need to analyze
the allegations regarding Stadiumred’s purported mishandling of PPP loan funds.
            Zdanow has provided some declaratory evidence that
Mediakix was not as solvent as Plaintiff, Stadiumred, and Zdanow believed prior
to the acquisition, and that the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic were
“the final nail in the coffin for Mediakix.” 
However, Zdanow has not provided any evidence demonstrating that he did
not fraudulently transfer Mediakix’s preacquisition assets to himself or his
other entities to prevent Mediakix from paying Plaintiff the rent it owed.  Therefore, the Court finds that Zdanow has
not demonstrated that the Complaint was brought for an improper purpose, or
that the claims are unmeritorious under  existing law.
            However, the Court finds that there appears to be no
evidentiary support or likely evidentiary support for Plaintiff’s allegation
that Stadiumred’s acquisition of Mediakix operated to assign the lease to
Stadiumred or that Stadiumred was obligated to use its PPP loan proceeds to pay
Mediakix’s rent.  
As Zdanow points out, California law dictates
that leases cannot be assigned to a third party without the assignee’s express
assumption of the lease.  (Demurrer at p.
11 [citing BRE DDR B Whittwood CA LLC v. Farmers & Merchants Bank of
Long Beach (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 992, 1000.])  
With regard to the purported
assignment, the Complaint merely alleges “The Lease provided that a transfer of
40% or more of Mediakix’s ownership was deemed an assignment of the lease by
Mediakix.  Under this provision, when the
Acquisition took place, pursuant to the above alleged Civil Code sections, SRI
became an additional “debtor” and MSC became SRI’s creditor.”  (Compl. ¶ 21 [referring to Civil Code
sections for Uniform Voidable Transactions].) 

 
Thus, a provision in a lease
agreement between Plaintiff and Mediakix could not, by operation of law,
effectuate an assignment of the lease to Stadiumred without Stadiumred’s
express assumption of the lease, and Plaintiff has not otherwise alleged or
provided evidence that Stadiumred ever expressly assumed the lease.  By contrast, the Zdanow declaration indicates
that no such express assumption occurred. 
(Zdanow Decl. ¶ 7.)  As such,
there appears to be no legal or factual basis requiring Stadiumred to have used
its PPP loan proceeds to pay Mediakix’s rent.
            Similarly, regarding the stopped rent payments, the
Complaint alleges “On information and belief, in 2019, exercising control over
Mediakix, Zdanow caused Mediakix to stop paying Rent.  Zdanow did this even though Mediakix
had sufficient funds to make payment.” 
(Compl. ¶ 23.)  In fact, Zdanow
has presented evidence that the rent was paid in full through March 2020, with
two partial payments made thereafter for April and May 2020.  
            Notwithstanding,
the Court exercises its discretion and declines to award sanctions.  Regardless of whether the rent payments
stopped in late 2019 or in early 2020, the heart of Plaintiff’s claims – that Mediakix
owes approximately $251,984.94 in back rent – is substantially supported.  In reply, Zdanow argues that Plaintiff also
misrepresented the monthly rent as being lower than it actually was, which also
falsely creates the impression that Mediakix had been delinquent in its rent
payments for longer than it actually had. 
The Court does not find that these two small accounting discrepancies
warrant sanctions.
Similarly, there is no evidence that Plaintiff
did not have a good faith belief that discovery would reveal Stadiumred
improperly diverted funds out of Mediakix to prevent Mediakix from paying
Plaintiff its rent.  That the evidence
may ultimately reveal that Mediakix had hidden financial problems before the
acquisition and that the COVID-19 pandemic strained Mediakix’s finances beyond
the brink does not mean that sanctions are warranted.  This provides an independent basis for
Plaintiff’s claims, notwithstanding that there appears no legal or factual
support for Plaintiff’s allegations that Stadiumred was obligated to use its
PPP loan proceeds to pay Mediakix’s rent pursuant to an assignment of the lease
by operation of Stadiumred’s acquisition.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies without prejudice Zdanow’s motion for
terminating and monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.  
 
Zdanow shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file  the notice with a proof of service forthwith.

 
 
DATED:  July 18, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 