 Case Number:  23SMCV05222    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05222




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff American Express National Bank




OPPOSING PARTY


none
  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment
Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Plaintiff’s
     Evidence in Support of its Motion for Summary Judgment

 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff American Express National Bank (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant Vivian Flesch (“Defendant”) alleging the
common counts of open book account and account stated.  Defendant filed an answer to the complaint on
December 4, 2023.  
 
Plaintiff now moves for summary judgment.  Plaintiff’s motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.    Open Book Account
 
The elements of a common count
are (1) statement of indebtedness in a certain sum; (2) consideration; and (3)
nonpayment.  (Allen v. Powell
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510.)  
 
The term
“book account” means a detailed statement which constitutes the principal
record of one or more transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out
of a contract or some fiduciary relation, and shows the debits and credits in
connection therewith, and against whom and in favor of whom entries are made,
is entered in the regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or
fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner and is (1) in
a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but
detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of a permanent character, or is
kept in any other reasonably permanent form and manner.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 337a, subd. (a).)
 
            “A
book account is ‘open’ where a balance remains due on the account.”  (Eloquence Corporation v. Home Consignment
Center (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 655, 664–665.) 
However, “[t]he mere recording in a book of transactions or the
incidental keeping of accounts under an express contract does not of itself
create a book account.”  (Id. at
p. 666.)   
 
Further, “[a]n open account
results where the parties intend that the individual items of the account shall
not be considered independently, but as a connected series of transactions, and
that the account shall be kept open and subject to a shifting balance as additional
related entries of debits and credits are made, until it shall suit the
convenience of either party to settle and close the account, and where,
pursuant to the original express or implied intention, there is but one single
and indivisible liability arising from such series of related and reciprocal
debits and credits.”  (R.N.C. Inc. v.
Tsegeletos (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 967, 972.)
 
The essential elements of an
account stated are: (1) previous transactions between the parties establishing
the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a
promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due.  (Leighton v. Forster (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 467, 491.)
 
Plaintiff has provided evidence that on June 1, 1993, Defendant opened
an American Express Gold Card Account number ending in x90000.  (UMF Nos. 1, 13.)  The Account is governed by the Cardmember
Agreement, a physical copy of which Plaintiff transmitted to Defendant with the
card.  (UMF Nos. 2-3; 14-15.)  By keeping and using the Account, Defendant
agreed to be bound by the terms of the Cardmember Agreement.  (UMF Nos. 4; 16.)  Defendant used the Account to pay for various
goods and services and/or obtain cash advances. 
(UMF Nos. 5; 17.)  
 
Further, pursuant to the Cardmember Agreement, Defendant is personally
responsible for repaying Plaintiff for all charges, advances, fees and interest
on the Account by making regular monthly payments.  (UMF Nos. 6; 18.)  Defendant failed to make the required monthly
payments on the Account.  (UMF Nos. 7; 19.)  Plaintiff maintains an accounting of all
credits and debits on the Account, which it sent to Defendant every month.  (UMF Nos. 8; 20.)  Defendant’s outstanding balance on the
account is $29,227.51.  (UMF Nos. 11; 23.)   
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has met its burden of establishing the prima
facie elements of its cause of action for common counts – open book account and
account stated.  Because Defendant has
not opposed the Motion, Defendant has not met her burden of production to raise
a triable issue of material fact.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court grants Plaintiff’s unopposed
motion for summary judgment.  Further,
the Court will enter the Order lodged on April 22, 2024, and orders Plaintiff
to lodge a proposed Judgment in conformity with the Court’s ruling on or before
August 1, 2024.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  July 18, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court