  Case Number:  19SMCV01966    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV01966




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Gilberto Rios dba Beto’s Drywall & Plaster
  Interior Finishes




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Michael Levine and Zorbey Ozdilek (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative Fourth Amended Complaint on June 30, 2022 against Defendants Montalba
Architects, Inc.; David Desire Montalba, AIA; Jonathan Eric Handzo, AIA; Denver
Thomas Dale IV; Temperature Equipment Corporation; Sure Light Electric, Inc.;
Fabie Tile & Marble, Inc.; Folger Roofing & Construction Company, Inc.;
Heritage Woodworks, Inc.; L.A. Overhead Door, Inc.; PBS Engineers, Inc. (fka
Doe 1); WMW, Inc. dba Weather Masters Waterproofing (fka Doe 2); Rapid Duct
Testing & Air Balancing, Inc. (fka Doe 3); Ben McDonald (fka Doe 4);
Michael Knopoff (fka Doe 5); David Trumbull dba Sure Light Electric (fka Doe
6); Gilberto Rios dba Beto’s Drywall & Plaster Interior Finishes (fka Roe
1); E&J Lopez Plumbing, Inc. (fka Roe 2); and M&F Hardwood Floors, Inc.
(fka Roe 3) alleging eleven causes of action for (1) professional negligence;
(2) breach of contract; (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (4) breach of the implied covenant to perform work in a good and
competent manner; (5) breach of fiduciary duty; (6) aiding and abetting breach
of fiduciary duty; (7) fraud and deceit; (8) aiding and abetting fraud and
deceit; (9) negligence; (10) conversion; and (11) violation of Business &
Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.
 
Several cross-complaints have been filed, including one by Denver
Thomas Dale, IV, which also names Defendant Gilberto Rios dba Beto’s Drywall
& Plaster Interior Finishes (“Beto’s”). 
As the Court noted at the last status conference on May 30, although
Beto’s has answered this cross-complaint, Beto’s has not yet filed an answer to
Plaintiffs’ operative Fourth Amended Complaint. 

 
Beto’s now moves for a short continuance of the September 3, 2024
trial date to sometime on or after October 21, 2024 because counsel is out of
the country when the current trial is set. 
Beto’s motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Trial and Discovery Cut-Off
Dates
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Beto’s
requests a trial continuance because Beto’s counsel “purchased tickets for an
overseas trip in December 2023 which would take us out of the country for the
first three weeks of September.”  (Wilton
Decl. ¶ 6.)  This was before the February
2, 2024 status conference where the Court set the trial date for September
3.  Counsel advised the Court at the
status conference of his unavailability for trial on September 3 due to his
preplanned vacation, but the Court set the trial date anyway.
 
            The
Court finds that Beto’s has not provided any legal basis demonstrating that counsel’s
vacation constitutes “other excusable circumstances” warranting a continuance
under Rule 3.1332(c)(3).  The Court also finds
it concerning that counsel has still not filed an answer on behalf of Beto’s
when the parties are so close to trial, despite being alerted by the Court of
this issue on May 30.
 
            With
regard to the factors the Court considers when determining whether a
continuance is warranted, Beto’s concedes that the trial is imminent, and that
there have been previous continuances due to the large number of parties and
cross-complaints at issue.  The Court
also notes that this case is extremely aged, with the original complaint having
been filed on November 8, 2019, meaning that the parties are running up against
the five-year rule, and the Court’s trial calendar is very impacted.  The Court further notes that although no
party has opposed the motion, the requested continuance was not presented as a
stipulation.  Moreover, counsel declares,
“Discovery to date has shown Beto’s Drywall to be a peripheral party at
best with minimal accusations of wrongdoing against him.”  (Wilton Decl. ¶ 7.)  As such, in the absence of a stipulation,
without “other excusable circumstances” or other good cause shown, and in view of Beto’s lack of diligence in
filing an answer to the operative complaint, the Court does not find a trial continuance
is warranted to accommodate the vacation of counsel to a “peripheral party” in
such a complex and aged action.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Beto’s unopposed motion to continue the
trial without prejudice.   
 
            Beto’s shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:  July 18, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court