 Case Number:  23SMCV04660    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04660




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Claude Zdanow




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Main Street Corridor, LLC



 
MOTIONS
 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff Main Street Corridor, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
brought suit against Defendants Claude Zdanow; Stadiumred Group; Stadiumred;
and Stadiumred, Inc. alleging two causes of action for (1) constructively
fraudulent transfer and (2) fraudulent transfer.  
 
Defendant Claude Zdanow (“Zdanow”) demurs to both causes of action for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Zdanow
replies.  
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Zdanow’s Request for Judicial
Notice
 
Zdanow requests judicial notice of (1) the commercial property lease
between Plaintiff and Mediakix referenced in paragraphs 18 and 21 of the
Complaint and of (2) the May 10, 2021 Repayment Agreement referenced in
paragraphs 28-29 of the Complaint.  
 
Zdanow’s request is made pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (h) as “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” 
 In support of Zdanow’s request, Zdanow
cites to Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1285, fn. 3, and McBride
v. Smith (2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1160, 1173. 
The Court finds both cases distinguishable.  
 
            In Ingram v. Flippo, the
Court took judicial notice of a letter and media release both made by a District
Attorney that the complaint quoted and summarized in detail, where both sides
quoted from it in their briefing, and where there was no objection to the
request.  Unlike a letter and media
release by a District Attorney, which appear to be public records and therefore
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy (public government records), private contracts
and agreements between parties are not capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  
 
            Likewise, McBride v. Smith simply
stands for the proposition that the Court will accept as true specific facts
included in exhibits attached to the complaint or in documents subject to
judicial notice over general conclusory allegations to the contrary.  The opinion does not stand for the
proposition that a court may properly take judicial notice of private
agreements.  (See, e.g., FNB Mortg.
Corp. v. Pacific General Group (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1132 [“Language
used in any opinion is of course to be understood in light of the facts and the
issue before the court, and an opinion is not authority for a proposition not
therein considered”].)  
 
 
            Therefore, the Court declines to
take judicial notice of the agreements.  The
Court similarly disregards the Declaration of Claude Zdanow, as courts may not
consider extrinsic evidence when ruling on a demurrer.  (See, e.g., Childs v. State of California
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 155, 163 [“It is an elementary rule that the sole
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the challenged
pleading.  It cannot, properly, be
addressed to or based upon evidence or other extrinsic matters”].)
 
            Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice
 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
Exhibit 1: the Rent Complaint naming Stadiumred
as a defendant, case number 21SMCV00349
 
Exhibit 2: the notice/proof of service to
Stadiumred that Plaintiff is seeking entry of judgment for breach of the repayment
agreement, filed in the same case.
 
Exhibit 3: judgment entered against Stadiumred in
the same case
 
Exhibit 4: a printout from the Small Business
Association website on PPP Loan information showing that SRI received PPP loan
funds on or about March 31, 2021.
 
Judicial notice may generally
be taken of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].) 
 
Plaintiff’s request appears to
be an attempt for the Court to take judicial notice of hearsay allegations and
declarations filed in another action. 
Further, the Court does not find it necessary to take judicial notice
that Plaintiff in fact filed a complaint against Stadiumred to recover
rent amounts owed, or that the parties entered into a repayment agreement, from
which Stadiumred apparently did not make payments.  These are all alleged in the Complaint, and a
demurrer tests the sufficiency of the allegations, not the evidence.  Therefore, the Court declines to take
judicial notice of exhibits 1-3.
 
As for Exhibit 4, Plaintiff
has provided no legal basis for the Court to take judicial notice of the Small
Business Website, or of the hearsay matters contained thereon.  Therefore, the Court similarly declines to
take judicial notice of exhibit 4.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Plaintiff alleges two causes
of action for (1) constructively fraudulent transfer; and (2) fraudulent
transfer.
 
“A fraudulent conveyance is a
transfer by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent
to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.”  (Nautilus, Inc. v. Yang (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 33, 39.)  Such transfers are
voidable.  (Ibid.; see also Civ.
Code, § 3439.04.)
 
“Constructive fraud exists in
cases in which conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that
is, in which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the
actual consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131.)  “Constructive fraud is a unique species of
fraud applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.”  (Ibid.)  The “elements of constructive fraud cause of
action are (1) a fiduciary or confidential relationship; (2) nondisclosure
(breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to deceive, and (4) reliance and
resulting injury (causation).”  (Ibid.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the
following facts applicable to both causes of action: 
 
·      
On
January 25, 2017, Plaintiff entered into a commercial lease agreement (“Lease”)
with non-party to the litigation, Mediakix, which required Mediakix to pay
monthly rent in the amount of $14,261. 
(Compl. ¶ 18.)  
 
·      
“The
Lease provided that a transfer of 40% or more of Mediakix’s ownership was
deemed an assignment of the lease by Mediakix.” 
(Compl. ¶ 21.)
 
·      
In late
2019, Defendant Zdanow (who also allegedly owns the various Stadiumred
entities), allegedly acquired Mediakix, through Stadiumred.  (Compl. ¶¶ 10-13; 19-20.)
 
·      
Mediakix
was allegedly solvent at the time of Zdanow’s acquisition.  (Compl. ¶ 19.)
 
·      
Upon
acquiring Mediakix, Zdanow caused Mediakix to stop paying rent, even though Mediakix
had sufficient funds to make rent payments. 
(Compl. ¶ 23.)
 
·      
Mediakix
did not pay rent through March 2021, at which time Mediakix abandoned the
property, owing $251,984.94 in unpaid rent, late fees, and unpaid water
bills.  (Compl. ¶ 25.)
 
·      
Zdanow
caused Stadiumred to apply for and receive Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”)
loans on April 13, 2020 and in March 2021, the combined total of which was
$1,500,000.  Both loans were forgiven.  (Compl. ¶¶ 24, 26, 27.)
 
·      
Zdanow
did not use the PPP loan funds to pay Plaintiff any of the outstanding
rent.  (Compl. ¶ 27.)
 
·      
Plaintiff
initiated an Unlawful Detainer action, after which, “[t]o avoid a judgment, the
parties entered into an agreement under which [Plaintiff] would forbear
evicting Mediakix and [Stadiumred] provided that these debtors repaid past-due
Rent in accordance with an agreed payment schedule” but “[n]o payments were
ever made” pursuant to that agreement. 
(Compl. ¶¶ 28-29.)
 
·      
Zdanow diverted
funds and assets from Mediakix and Stadiumred and “left both Mediakix and SRI
insolvent” and without any remaining assets. 
(Compl. ¶¶ 30-32.)
 
·      
“On information and belief, most if not all of
the small media companies acquired by Zdanow as part of the [Stadiumred]
Network have since been drained of funds and are no longer actively providing
services, including, without limitation, MediaKix, SevenBlue Magic Bullet Media
and Gyrosity Projects.”  (Compl. ¶ 14.)
 
Zdanow demurs to both causes
of action on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff fails to identify any asset of
Mediakix’s that Zdanow transferred; and (2) Stadiumred not using its PPP loan
proceeds to pay the back-owed rent does not constitute a fraudulent transfer
because (a) the acquisition of Mediakix did not cause an assignment of the
lease to Stadiumred; and (b) the law forbade Stadiumred from using the PPP loan
proceeds to pay Mediakix’s rent obligations.
 
As to Zdanow’s first point,
the Court finds the Complaint adequately alleges that Zdanow diverted funds and
assets from Mediakix.  (See Compl. ¶ 32
[“The money diverted from SRI and Mediakix by Zdanow is an ‘asset’ and
qualifies as ‘property’ as specified in California Civil Code 3439.01(a) and
3439.01(j)”].)
 
As such, the allegations that
Zdanow and Stadiumred stopped Mediakix from paying Plaintiff rent and instead diverted
funds out of Mediakix, which was solvent prior to Stadiumred’s acquisition and
insolvent afterwards, as Zdanow had allegedly done to other companies he
acquired, are sufficient to state a cause of action at this stage of the
litigation.[1]  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Zdanow’s Demurrer to the Complaint.  Further, the Court orders Zdanow to file an
Answer to the Complaint on or before August 8, 2024.
 
Zdanow shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice
with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  July 18, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


