  Case Number:  21STCV28723    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementCase Name: Atakan Akoglu v. Universal Music Group, Inc., et al.Moving Party: Defendant Def Jam Recordings (“Def Jam”)Responding Party: Plaintiff Atakan AkogluTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This is a personal injury case arising from a car collision wherein Plaintiff alleges defendant Hassan Rage (“Rage”) collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle from behind. Plaintiff asserts a single cause of action for negligence against all defendants, including Def Jam and UMG Recordings, Inc., (“UMG”).  Def Jam is a division of UMG.  In November 2021, Def Jam rented the subject vehicle using a UMG travel agent.  The vehicle was rented by Def Jam to provide for the travel and accommodation of its recording artist, FRVR Friday (UMF No. 5.) At the time of the accident, Rage was an Assistant Manager of 2255033 Alberta LLC, working under his supervisor, Jonathan Tesfamichael, who was FRVR Friday’s manager. (UMF No. 10.)  FRVR Friday’s Creative Director and his assistant were passengers in the vehicle driven by Rage when the collision occurred. (UMF No. 14.) MOVING PARTY POSITION Def Jam argues Plaintiff cannot establish requisite elements for his negligence cause of action, arguing that Rage was not Def Jam’s agent or employee at the time of the accident, that Def Jam did not negligently entrust the vehicle to Rage, and that there is no evidence that Def Jam’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 6-9.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues triable issues exist with respect to Def Jam’s negligence. Namely, that Rage was acting as Def Jam’s agent at the time of the crash. (Opposition, p. 7.) Plaintiff also argues a triable issue exists as to whether Def Jam negligently entrusted the subject vehicle to Rage. Additionally, Plaintiff argues circumstantial evidence of knowledge that Rage drove for FRVR Friday – as well as permissive policy allowing individuals working with the FRVR Friday team to drive the rental car – reflect conduct that was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Id.)REPLYIn a joint reply, Def Jam, UMG, and Universal Music Group, Inc. argue that Plaintiff has not created a triable issue that Rage was acting as their agent. Defendants contend there is no evidence to support any inference of ostensible agency, as there is no evidence that at the time of the accident, Plaintiff reasonably believed that Rage was acting on behalf of Def Jam, UMG or Universal – or that his alleged injuries stem from this belief. (Reply, p. 4.)ANALYSIS I. Procedural MattersThe Court takes judicial notice of the following:• Plaintiff’s August 4, 2021 complaint.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying Def Jam as Doe Defendant No. 1.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying UMG Recordings as Doe Defendant No. 2.II. Evidentiary Objections Def Jam, UMG, and Universal Music Group, Inc. provide 28 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence in the Declaration of Jack Cohen, Declaration of Eilin Suarez, and Declaration of Laura Lynn Davidson. The Court’s rulings on those objections are set forth in a separate order. III. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  Any person is capable of contracting to appoint or serve as an agent. (Civ. Code § 2296.) An agency relationship may be created and authority may be conferred by a prior agreement or after-the-fact through ratification. (Civ. Code § 2307.) The creation of an agency relationship is fact specific. Agencies are determined by the relations of the parties as they exist under the circumstances of their agreement or acts. (Trane Co. v. Gilbert (1968) 267 Cal. App. 2d 720, 726.) Here, Def Jam has not met its initial burden to make a prima facie showing that no agency relationship existed with Rage at the time of the collision. Def Jam’s own facts establish that it rented the subject vehicle using UMG’s travel agent “as an accommodation” for Def Jam’s recording artist, FRVR Friday.  (UMF. No. 5)  Def Jam also establishes that Rage was acting within the course and scope of his employment with  FRVR Friday’s manager.  (UMF. Nos. 9 – 10.)  In other words, Def Jam rented the car to provide a benefit (e.g., transportation) for Def Jam’s artist, and Rage was driving the car in the course and scope of his employment with Def Jam’s artist’s manager.  On summary judgment, the court must view the evidence, and all “‘inferences' reasonably drawn therefrom... in the light most favorable to the opposing party.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 843 (internal citation omitted).)  Based on the facts relied on by Def Jam, a reasonable inference that can be drawn is that Def Jam enjoyed a benefit by providing transportation for its own recording artist. This inference is not sufficiently attenuated by the fact that Rage was employed by the artist’s manager.  Rather, the facts and reasonable inferences drawn therefrom suggest that Def Jam intended to provide transportation for its artist, for the benefit of itself and its artist.  In Glanville v. Cannick (1960) 182 Cal.App.2d 514, the plaintiff furnished a car to transport himself and his guests to a football game and asked one of his guests to drive. These facts were undisputed at trial.  On appeal, the Court found that plaintiff benefited from this arrangement and, as such, an agency relationship was created as a matter of law. (Id. at 517.) A similar result was reached in Souza v. Corti (1943) 22 Cal.2d 454, where the Court held that when a passenger provides the car and the driver is operating it for the passenger's own benefit, the relationship of principal and agent exists as a matter of law. (Id. at 461.) Because a reasonable inference can be drawn that Def Jam benefited from “accommodating” its own artist by providing transportation, the Court cannot find that Def Jam met its burden of establishing the lack of a triable issue of fact as to whether Rage was acting within the course and scope of an agency relationship with Def Jam.  Even if a prima facie showing had been made that no agency relationship existed, Plaintiff nevertheless provides admissible evidence raising a triable issue of material fact as to whether an agency relationship existed.  Namely, Plaintiff provides evidence suggestive of Def Jam and UMG’s potential ratification of Rage’s actions as their agent after the fact. It is possible to establish an agency relationship by subsequently ratifying the act which was purportedly done on their behalf, treating it as if it were originally authorized. (Camden Systems, LLC v. 409 North Camden, LLC (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1068; Civ. Code § 2307.) Here, Plaintiff provides evidence that, at Def Jam’s request, UMG rented another six vehicles in Rage’s name after the crash occurred. (PUMF 8, 9.) Notably, UMG and Def Jam even rented a vehicle with Rage as the named driver the day after the crash. (PUMF 5.) As a result, the Court finds a triable issue exists as to whether UMG and Def Jam ratified Rage as an agent and entrusted him with the rental vehicle. (PUMF 5.) Plaintiff also provides admissible evidence that the subject vehicle was rented without restrictions on permissive users/drivers. (PUMF 41.) Importantly, Ms. Suarez, who was the named renter of the subject vehicle, asserts she was told by UMG that the rental of the subject vehicle was not limited to certain named drivers, but was for those working with Jonathan Tesfamichael and FRVR Friday. Though UMG questions the ultimate weight Plaintiff’s evidence should be afforded, Plaintiff nevertheless provides sufficient evidence to demonstrate a triable issue exists. Because a triable issue of fact exists over whether Rage acted in the course and scope of an agency with Def Jam, Defendant’s other arguments must also fail.  Specifically, if Rage was acting as Defendant’s agent, Defendant would face liability regardless of whether it negligently entrusted the vehicle or independently contributed to the collision.RULINGBased on the foregoing, Def Jam’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. ____________Motion for Summary JudgementCase Name: Atakan Akoglu v. Universal Music Group, Inc., et al.Moving Party: Defendant UMG Recordings, Inc. (“UMG”)Responding Party: Plaintiff Atakan AkogluTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This is a personal injury case arising from a car collision wherein Plaintiff alleges defendant Hassan Rage (“Rage”) collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle from behind. Plaintiff asserts a single cause of action for negligence against all defendants, including Def Jam and UMG Recordings, Inc., (“UMG”).  Def Jam is a division of UMG.  In November 2021, Def Jam rented the subject vehicle using a UMG travel agent.  The vehicle was rented by Def Jam to provide for the travel and accommodation of its recording artist, FRVR Friday (UMF No. 5.) At the time of the accident, Rage was an Assistant Manager of 2255033 Alberta LLC, working under his supervisor, Jonathan Tesfamichael, who was FRVR Friday’s manager. (UMF No. 10.)  FRVR Friday’s Creative Director and his assistant were passengers in the vehicle driven by Rage when the collision occurred. (UMF No. 14.) MOVING PARTY POSITION UMG argues Plaintiff cannot establish requisite elements for his negligence cause of action, arguing that Rage was not UMG’s agent or employee at the time of the accident, that UMG did not negligently entrust the vehicle to Rage, and that there is no evidence that UMG’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 6-9.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues triable issues exist with respect to Def Jam’s negligence. Namely, that Rage was acting as UMG’s agent at the time of the crash. (Opposition, p. 7.) Plaintiff also argues a triable issue exists as to whether UMG negligently entrusted the subject vehicle to Rage. Additionally, Plaintiff argues circumstantial evidence of knowledge that Rage drove for FRVR Friday – as well as permissive policy allowing individuals working with the FRVR Friday team to drive the rental car – reflect conduct that was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Id.)REPLYIn a joint reply, Def Jam, UMG, and Universal Music Group, Inc. argue that Plaintiff has not created a triable issue that Rage was acting as their agent. Defendants contend there is no evidence to support any inference of ostensible agency, as there is no evidence that at the time of the accident, Plaintiff reasonably believed that Rage was acting on behalf of Def Jam, UMG or Universal – or that his alleged injuries stem from this belief. (Reply, p. 4.)ANALYSIS I. Procedural MattersThe Court takes judicial notice of the following:• Plaintiff’s August 4, 2021 complaint.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying Def Jam as Doe Defendant No. 1.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying UMG Recordings as Doe Defendant No. 2.II. Evidentiary Objections Def Jam, UMG, and Universal Music Group, Inc. provide 28 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence in the Declaration of Jack Cohen, Declaration of Eilin Suarez, and Declaration of Laura Lynn Davidson. The Court’s rulings on those objections are set forth in a separate order. III. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  Any person is capable of contracting to appoint or serve as an agent. (Civ. Code § 2296.) An agency relationship may be created and authority may be conferred by a prior agreement or after-the-fact through ratification. (Civ. Code § 2307.) The creation of an agency relationship is fact specific. Agencies are determined by the relations of the parties as they exist under the circumstances of their agreement or acts. (Trane Co. v. Gilbert (1968) 267 Cal. App. 2d 720, 726.) Here, UMG has not met its initial burden to make a prima facie showing that no agency relationship existed with Rage at the time of the collision.. (UMF. No. 2)  UMG’s own facts establish that Def Jam is a division of UMG and that it rented the subject vehicle “as an accommodation” for Def Jam’s recording artist, FRVR Friday.  (UMF. Nos. 2 and 5)  UMG also establishes that Rage was acting within the course and scope of his employment with  FRVR Friday’s manager.  (UMF. Nos. 9 – 10.)  In other words, UMG rented the car to provide a benefit (e.g., transportation) for an artist contracted with Def Jam (a division within its own company), and Rage was driving the car in the course and scope of his employment with Def Jam’s artist’s manager.  On summary judgment, the court must view the evidence, and all “‘inferences' reasonably drawn therefrom... in the light most favorable to the opposing party.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 843 (internal citation omitted).)  Based on the facts relied on by UMG, a reasonable inference that can be drawn is that Def Jam and UMG enjoyed a benefit by providing transportation for Def Jam’s recording artist. This inference is not sufficiently attenuated by the fact that Rage was employed by the artist’s manager.  Rather, the facts and reasonable inferences drawn therefrom suggest that Def Jam and UMG intended to provide transportation for Def Jam’s artist, for the benefit of themselves and the artist.  In Glanville v. Cannick (1960) 182 Cal.App.2d 514, the plaintiff furnished a car to transport himself and his guests to a football game and asked one of his guests to drive. These facts were undisputed at trial.  On appeal, the Court found that plaintiff benefited from this arrangement and, as such, an agency relationship was created as a matter of law. (Id. at 517.) A similar result was reached in Souza v. Corti (1943) 22 Cal.2d 454, where the Court held that when a passenger provides the car and the driver is operating it for the passenger's own benefit, the relationship of principal and agent exists as a matter of law. (Id. at 461.) Because a reasonable inference can be drawn that UMG benefited from “accommodating” Def Jam’s artist by providing transportation, the Court cannot find that UMG met its burden of establishing the lack of a triable issue of fact as to whether Rage was acting within the course and scope of an agency relationship with UMG.  Even if a prima facie showing had been made that no agency relationship existed, Plaintiff nevertheless provides admissible evidence raising a triable issue of material fact as to whether an agency relationship existed.  Namely, Plaintiff provides evidence suggestive of Def Jam and UMG’s potential ratification of Rage’s actions as their agent after the fact. It is possible to establish an agency relationship by subsequently ratifying the act which was purportedly done on their behalf, treating it as if it were originally authorized. (Camden Systems, LLC v. 409 North Camden, LLC (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1068; Civ. Code § 2307.) Here, Plaintiff provides evidence that, at Def Jam’s request, UMG rented another six vehicles in Rage’s name after the crash occurred. (PUMF 8, 9.) Notably, UMG and Def Jam even rented a vehicle with Rage as the named driver the day after the crash. (PUMF 5.) As a result, the Court finds a triable issue exists as to whether UMG and Def Jam ratified Rage as an agent and entrusted him with the rental vehicle. (PUMF 5.) Plaintiff also provides admissible evidence that the subject vehicle was rented without restrictions on permissive users/drivers. (PUMF 41.) Importantly, Ms. Suarez, who was the named renter of the subject vehicle, asserts she was told by UMG that the rental of the subject vehicle was not limited to certain named drivers, but was for those working with Jonathan Tesfamichael and FRVR Friday. Though UMG questions the ultimate weight Plaintiff’s evidence should be afforded, Plaintiff nevertheless provides sufficient evidence to demonstrate a triable issue exists. Because a triable issue of fact exists over whether Rage acted in the course and scope of an agency with UMG, Defendant’s other arguments must also fail.  Specifically, if Rage was acting as Defendant’s agent, Defendant would face liability regardless of whether it negligently entrusted the vehicle or independently contributed to the collision.RULINGBased on the foregoing, UMG’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. ___________Motion for Summary JudgementCase Name: Atakan Akoglu v. Universal Music Group, Inc., et al.Moving Party: Defendant Universal Music Group, Inc. (“Universal”)Responding Party: Plaintiff Atakan AkogluTentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUND This is a personal injury case arising from a car collision wherein Plaintiff alleges defendant Hassan Rage (“Rage”) collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle from behind. Plaintiff asserts a single cause of action for negligence against all defendants, including Universal, UMG, its division Def Jam Recordings (“Def Jam”). Universal is a holding company that does not have any day-to-day operations or employees. (UMF 2.) Universal is an indirect parent of UMG, which Def Jam is a division of. (UMF 4.) Universal does not create, develop, perform, market sell, distribute, or exploit recorded music or musical compositions, and does not have any dealings with artists or their management. (UMF 3.)At the time of the accident, Rage was an Assistant Manager of 2255033 Alberta LLC, working under his supervisor, Jonathan Tesfamichael, who was FRVR Friday’s manager. (UMF Nos. 10, 11.)  FRVR Friday’s Creative Director, as well as his assistant, were passengers in the vehicle driven by Rage when the collision occurred. (UMF No. 17.) MOVING PARTY POSITION Universal argues Plaintiff cannot establish requisite elements for his negligence cause of action, arguing that Rage was not Universal’s employee or agent at the time of the accident, that Universal did not negligently entrust the vehicle to Rage, and that there is no evidence that Universal’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Universal Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 6-9.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues triable issues exist with respect to Universal’s negligence. Namely, that Rage was acting as Universal’s agent at the time of the crash. (Opposition, p. 7.) Plaintiff also argues a triable issue exists as to whether defendants negligently entrusted the subject vehicle to Rage. Additionally, Plaintiff argues circumstantial evidence of knowledge that Rage drove for FRVR Friday – as well as permissive policy allowing individuals working with the FRVR Friday team to drive the rental car – reflect conduct that was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Id.)REPLYIn a joint reply, Def Jam, UMG, and Universal argue that Plaintiff has not created a triable issue that Rage was acting as their agent. Defendants contend there is absolutely no evidence to support any inference of ostensible agency, as there is no evidence that at the time of the accident, Plaintiff reasonably believed that Rage was acting on behalf of Def Jam, UMG or Universal – or that his alleged injuries stem from this belief. (Reply, p. 4.)ANALYSIS I. Procedural MattersThe Court takes judicial notice of the following:• Plaintiff’s August 4, 2021 complaint.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying Def Jam as Doe Defendant No. 1.• Plaintiff’s December 21, 2021, amended complaint identifying UMG Recordings as Doe Defendant No. 2.II. Evidentiary Objections Def Jam, UMG, and Universal Music Group, Inc. provide 28 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence in the Declaration of Jack Cohen, Declaration of Eilin Suarez, and Declaration of Laura Lynn Davidson. The Court’s rulings on those objections are set forth in a separate order.  III. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  Any person is capable of contracting to appoint or serve as an agent. (Civ. Code, § 2296.) An agency relationship may be created and authority may be conferred by a prior agreement or after-the-fact through ratification. (Civ. Code, § 2307.) The creation of an agency relationship is fact specific. Agencies are determined by the relations of the parties as they exist under the circumstances of their agreement or acts. (Trane Co. v. Gilbert, 267 Cal. App. 2d 720, 726.) Agency relationships can be established by formal or explicit agreement between agent and principal, or alternatively through ostensible authority, wherein the behavior of an alleged principal creates a belief among third parties that an agency exists. (Young v. Horizon West, Inc. (App. 6 Dist. 2013) 163 Cal.Rptr.3d 704, 714.) Apparent Or Ostensible Authority Can Be established informally and determined based on circumstantial evidence. (Gaine v. Austin, 58 Cal. App. 2d 250, 261.) Negligent entrustment liability does not arise from the relationship between the parties but from the act of entrustment itself. (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552.)  The determination of whether the entruster acted negligently is typically a question for the jury, applying general principles of negligence. (White v. Inbound Aviation (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 910.)Here, Universal meets its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that it is not vicariously liable for Rage’s negligence by providing evidence that Rage has never been employed by or an agent of Universal. (UMF No. 7.) Moreover, Universal meets its burden due to the absence of evidence suggesting Rage was employed by or an agent of Universal – a holding company that has no employees. (UMF No. 2.) The burden thus turns to Plaintiff, who provides no evidence to show a triable issue exists with respect to Universal’s vicarious liability. Because Plaintiff provides no evidence to show a triable issue that Rage was an agent for or employee of Universal, Plaintiff is unable to meet its burden to support his vicarious liability claim against Universal. Universal similarly meets its initial burden with respect to Plaintiff’s negligent entrustment argument. Namely, Universal argues it was not involved in renting the vehicle Rage drove nor entrusted the vehicle to Rage – and moreover had no knowledge of or information as to why Rage was driving it at the time. (UMF No 9.) This is sufficient to make a prima facie showing that Universal did not entrust Rage with the vehicle, as there is otherwise no evidence in this case reflecting any action by Universal to suggest it entrusted Rage with the vehicle. Plaintiff, in turn, does not meet his burden to show a triable issue exists here. In fact, Plaintiff does not address Universal at all, stating that “UMG is responsible for the actions of those who are retained to help fulfill the driving responsibilities” so FRVR Friday can meet the objectives of the recording contract. (Opposition, p. 8.) Plaintiff provides no evidence of and makes no contentions regarding Universal’s involvement in this matter. Thus, there is no basis for imposing liability on Universal for negligent entrustment. Similarly, Universal makes a prima facie showing that its conduct was not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries – as there is no evidence of any connection between Universal and Rage, the rented vehicle, or the accident. (UMF Nos. 1-12.) Plaintiff, in turn, makes no claims and provides no evidence of any other possible negligent act, error or omission by Universal that could qualify as a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Opposition, p. 9-10.) As a result, the Court finds that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Universal’s liability for Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence. Universal is thus entitled to summary judgement. RULING Based on the foregoing, Universal’s motion for summary judgement is GRANTED. 