..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23NWCV01639
Plaintiff's Name: LEFKOWITH, DEREK and JENNIFER
Defendant's Name: BROWN, BENJAMIN and KRISTY
People-Names: LEFKOWITH, DEREK and JENNIFER, BROWN, BENJAMIN and KRISTY
Company-Names: None
Places: Lakewood, California
Dates: May 26, 2023, March 19, 2022
Events: Social media posting, sex party, firearm brandishing, restraining order
Money: None
Intentions: Intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, abuse of process, trespass, defamation
Facts: Plaintiffs and defendants reside on neighboring properties; defendants allegedly listed plaintiffs' home as the location for a sex party and brandished a firearm at plaintiffs; defendants allegedly wrongfully obtained a civil harassment restraining order against plaintiffs.
Disputes: Plaintiffs' causes of action are uncertain and may be barred by the doctrine of res judicata
Acts: Plaintiffs' complaints of intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, abuse of process, trespass, and defamation
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Case Citations: Butler v. Sequeira, Khoury v. Maly's of Calif. Inc., Schlicker v. Hemenway, Plant Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp., Bush v. Superior Court, Wong v. Jing, Coleman v. Republic Indemnity Ins. Co., CACI No. 1620, Carlsen v. Koivumaki, State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. v. Lee, Trear v. Sills, Ralphs Grocery Store v. Victory Consultants, Inc., John Doe 2 v. Sup. Ct.
Statutes: California Civil Procedure Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* The Judge OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend the Demurrer to the Plaintiffs' Complaint.
* The Judge GRANTED the Defendants' Request for Judicial Notice.
* The Judge found that the Plaintiffs' Complaint sufficiently alleged intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, and defamation.
* The Judge SUSTAINED the Demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the Demurrer to the Plaintiffs' Complaint. The judge has OVERRULED the Demurrer in part and SUSTAINED it with 30 days leave to amend in part. The judge has found that the Plaintiffs' Complaint sufficiently alleges intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, assault, and defamation. However, the judge has SUSTAINED the Demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action with 30 days leave to amend, finding that the allegations are uncertain or lack sufficient facts. The judge has also GRANTED the Defendants' Request for Judicial Notice. The ruling is subject to change after the parties have an opportunity to file objections and the judge has considered those objections.
