 Case Number:  22NWCV00413    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  C SANDOVAL v.
SANDOVAL
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00413
HEARING:  03/07/24
 
#3
 
Plaintiff’s Application for Order of Issuance of Writ of
Attachment in the Amount of $185,696.37 is CONTINUED to Thursday,
March 28, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 

 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed by Martha Sandoval, guardian ad litem
for Maria Sandoval, an individual and Trustee of the Sandoval Family Trust
Dated May 13, 2008. The operative pleading is the Third Amneded Complaint
(“TAC”) filed on April 19, 2023. The TAC alleges that Defendant Gloria Sandoval
is the administrator of Everardo Sandoval and is representing his estate
against the claims that Plaintiff Maria Sandoval has against his estate.
(See TAC ¶2.) Importantly, Martha Sandoval does not assert any claims on her own
behalf—only as GAL for Maria Sandoval. 
 
In Opposition, Defendant argues that Martha Sandoval lacks
standing to present this Motion because she is not a real party in interest to
this action and because “Defendant is informed and believes, and based thereon
alleges, that Maria passed away on or about January 18, 2024.” (Opp. 2:22-23.) 
 
In Reply, Moving Party does not expressly admit or deny that
Maria Sandoval passed away after this action was filed. Rather, Moving Party
argues that “there is absolutely no reason why the motion should still not be
considered by the Court given that it was filed during the lifetime of Maria
Sandoval. Given that there is a guardian ad litem in this case, and that there
is no law requiring the denial of the motion if a party dies after it is filed,
then this argument must be dismissed.” (Reply 2:17-21.) 
 
It is undisputed that the causes of action contained within
the operative TAC belong to Maria Sandoval. Martha Sandoval does not assert any
claims on behalf of herself, only in a representative capacity. It is also
undisputed that Maria Sandoval, the real party in interest, passed away after
this action was filed. 
 
A cause of action does not abate by reason of the
plaintiff’s death. (CCP §377.21.) The Court may make appropriate orders
substituting the decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest as
the plaintiff on claims belonging to the decedent. (CCP §377.33.) The successor
in interest must execute and file a declaration in statutory form. (CCP
§377.32.) Nothing in the statute specifies a timeline pursuant to which the
foregoing acts must be taken. However, “[t]he court may in its discretion dismiss
an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this article on its own motion
or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to the court appropriate
under the circumstances of the case.” (CCP §583.410(a).)
 
To date, no Application(s) for Order
Substituting as Successor-in-Interest for Deceased Plaintiff has been
filed/lodged with this Court. The Court notes that no Motion to Dismiss has
been filed/scheduled. 
 
This 
Motion is CONTINUED as indicated above. 
 
 
 
 
 