  Case Number:  19NWCV00954    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  C GONZALES v. LEWIS
CASE NO.:  19NWCV00954 
HEARING:  03/07/24
 
#1
 
Cross-Defendant ELIZABETH AMAYA’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action for quiet title was filed by Plaintiff DORA
GONZALES on December 17, 2019. On July 13, 2020, Cross-Complainant ELAINE
WATROUS, Successor Trustee of the Dora Gonzales Living Trust, dated December
13, 2010 (“Cross-Complainant”) filed her Cross-Complaint against various
cross-defendants for cancelation of a grant deed and deed of trust relating to
the Subject Property of this litigation. 
 
On May 11, 2022, the action was dismissed without prejudice
as to David Meckler as Trustee for the 2018 Meckler Family Freeloader Trust
(“Meckler Trust”). On May 27, 2022, Judgment was entered in favor of
Cross-Defendant Meckler Trust against Cross-Complainant. The Meckler Trust
foreclosed on the Subject Property on July 16, 2022. 
 
On October 5, 2022, Cross-Complainant filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint targeting the buyer of the Subject Property, without leave of
Court. The improperly filed First Amended Cross-Complaint was stricken on May
11, 2023. 
 
On July 20, 2023, Cross-Complainant sought and was granted
leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) on July 20, 2023 in
order to add the buyer of the Subject Property as a cross-defendant to this
action. 
 
The FAXC alleges that “On June 13, 2022, David Meckler as
Trustee for the 2018 Meckler Family Freeloader Trust recorded a Notice of
Trustee’s Sale pursuant to the forged Deed of Trust….. On or about July 27,
2022, the Subject Property sold at a foreclosure sale for $375,625.00 to
Cross-Defendant Elizabeth Amaya, an individual…. The said Trustee’s Deed Upon
Sale is void as it purports to be a transfer of title based on a foreclosure
sale based upon the above-described forged Deed of Trust…. Because of this invalid
foreclosure sale, David Meckler… no longer has a claim to the property and
Cross-Complainant dismisses her cross-complaint as to that entity.” (FAXC ¶36.)
“Elizabeth Amaya is a proper Cross-Defendant in this action because she
purchased the Subject Property pursuant to a foreclosure action that was
exercised pursuant to a void Deed of Trust… which was executed pursuant to a
void Grant Deed.” (FAXC ¶37.)
 
The FAXC asserts claims for: (1) Cancellation of Grant Deed;
and (2) Quiet Title. 
 
Cross-Defendant ELIZABETH AMAYA (“Amaya”) specially and
generally demurs to each cause of action. 
 
Uncertainty
 
Amaya argues that Cross-Complainants claims are fatally uncertain.
This argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for uncertainty is not
intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading
but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.”
(Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover,
demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or
she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Here, it is clear from Amaya’s other arguments that they understand what Cross-Complainant
at least attempt to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The demurrer is
not sustained on the basis of uncertainty.
 
Sham Pleading 
 
Amaya also argues that Cross-Complainants claims against her are
barred by the sham pleading doctrine because “the first amended complaint makes
no mention that her previous attack to cancel the deed of trust owned by former
cross-defendant Meckler Trust was decided against her in a judgment.” (Dem. 10:2-4.)

 
The “sham pleading doctrine”
provides that “[i]f a party files an amended complaint and attempts to avoid
the defects of the original complaint by either omitting facts which made the
previous complaint defective or by adding facts inconsistent with those of
previous pleadings, the court may take judicial notice of prior pleadings and
may disregard any inconsistent allegations.” (emphasis added.) (Colapinto v.
County of Riverside (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 147, 151-152.) Plaintiffs can
only “avoid the effect of the sham pleading doctrine by alleging an explanation
for the conflicts between the pleadings. [Citation.]. (Deveny v. Entropin,
Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 426.) While the sham pleading rule “is a good rule
to defeat abuses of the privilege to amend and to discourage sham and
untruthful pleadings” … "[i]t is not a rule…which is intended to prevent
honest complainants from correcting erroneous allegations…or to prevent correction
of ambiguous facts.” (Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965) 234
Cal.App.2d 178, 185.)  
 
The demurrer is not sustained under the sham pleading doctrine. In its’ June
29, 2023 Order, this Court expressly granted Cross-Complainant’s application
for leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint to add a new defendant (the
buyer of the property) to this action. (See June 29, 2023 Order.) This Court
does not find the added facts to be inconsistent with the prior pleadings, and
to the extent that some inconsistencies exist, the Court finds that Cross-Complainant
has adequately explained the conflicts—Cross-Complainant discovered new facts after
the initial Cross-Complaint was filed, and after the Subject Property was sold
to Amaya. 
 
Res Judicata
 
Amaya also argues that that this action is barred by res judicata
because the Meckler Trust successfully defeated the Cross-Compliant, secured
Judgment in their favor, and Amaya shares an identity of interests with the
Meckler Trust. 
 
The elements of res
judicata are: (1) a claim or issue raised in the present action is identical to
a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding
resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the doctrine
is being asserted was a party or in in privity with a party to the prior
proceeding. (Brinton v. Bankers Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 550, 556.) 
 
“California adheres
to a ‘primary rights’ theory in determining whether the claims or causes of
action are the same. The significant factor is whether the claim or cause of
action is for invasion of a single primary right. Whether the same facts are
involved in both suits is not conclusive. Moreover, more than one act may
constitute a single cause of action. Under Pomeroy’s primary rights theory, ‘…a
cause of action consists of 1) a primary right possessed by the plaintiff, 2) a
correspondent primary duty devolving upon the defendant, and 3) a delict or
wrong done by the defendant which consist in a breach of such primary right and
duty. Thus, two actions constitute a single cause of action if they both affect
the same primary right.” (Burdette v. Carrier Corp. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1668, 1685.) Moreover, a dismissal, with prejudice, is a bar to any
future action involving the same subject matter. (Wouldridge v. Burns
(1968) 265 Cal.App.2d 82, 84.) 
 
A
dismissal without prejudice is not a final judgment on the merits.
Cross-Complainants claims are not barred by res judicata. 
 
First and Second Causes of Action – Cancellation of Deed
and Quiet Title
 
The elements of a cause of action for instrument
cancellation are (1) a written instrument; (2) a reasonable apprehension that
it may cause serious injury to someone; (3) as to whom it is void or voidable.
(Cal. Civ. Code §3412.)
 
The
elements for a quiet title action are: (1) a description of the property; (2)
Plaintiff’s title or interest and the basis; (3) defendant is asserting an
adverse claim or antagonistic property interest; (4) date as of which the
determination is sought; and (5) prayer for determination of title. (CCP
§761.020.) “[A]s a general matter an action to quiet title cannot be maintained
by the owner of equitable title as against the holder of legal title.” (Warren
v. Merrill (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 96, 113.) However, where a party acquires
legal title through fraud, that party may hold the property “as a constructive
trustee for the defrauded party, and the defrauded party would “based on the
equities, [hold] superior title.” (Ibid.) 
 
Amaya argues that these claims are subject to demurrer
because she is a bona fide purchaser for value of the Subject Property. “Under
California law, a bona fide purchaser for value takes title free and clear of
an improperly reconveyed deed of trust, so long as the reconveyance is voidable
and not void.” (Shiavon v. Aranaudo Bros. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 374,
376.) 
 
However, “[t]he determination whether a party is a good
faith purchaser or encumbrancer for value ordinarily is a question of fact.” (Triple
a Management Co. v. Frisone (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 520, 536.) 
 
Here, the FAXC does not conclusively establish that Amaya
was a bona fide purchaser with no knowledge of any forgery or fraud. Amaya’s
arguments with respect to the bona fide purchaser for value defense, and the
defense of laches, raise factual determinations which are not appropriately
decided at this stage of the litigation The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
 