  Case Number:  22STCV05374    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
14, 2025                               TRIAL DATE:  May 19, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Todd Sosna, PhD v. Colonnade
West, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV05374
 





















 
CROSS-DEFENDANT
MAXI SERVE RESTORATION & CONSTRUCTION’S MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD
FAITH SETTLEMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendant
Maxi Serve Restoration & Construction  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Colonnade West, Inc. 
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDRUAL BACKGROUND
 
            This is a nuisance
action.  Plaintiff Todd Sosna, PhD (Sosna
or Plaintiff) owns a condominium unit (the Property) at defendant Colonnade
West, Inc.’s (Colonnade) common interest development (the Development).  In 2019, the Property experienced rainwater
intrusions.  Sosna alleges that Colonnade
or its vendors failed to properly design gutters, install drainage from
common-area planters, or properly waterproof the planters in the building which
caused the rainwater to pool up and enter the Property through a common-area
wall.  Sosna seeks recovery of $73,051.62
in property damage, $580,800 in loss of use, and attorney fees. 
 
            On February 14, 2022, Sosna
commenced this action against Colonnade.
 
            On October 27, 2023, Colonnade filed
a Cross-Complaint against ELB Capital Corp. and Maxi Serve Restoration &
Construction (Maxi) for equitable indemnity. 
According to the Cross-Complaint, Maxi’s scope of work at the Development included waterproofing planters and
waterproofing stucco flashing, including flashing adjacent to the Property.  
 
            On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff and Maxi reached a settlement agreement whereby
Maxi agreed to pay Plaintiff $35,000. 
The settlement is dependent on a finding of good faith.
 
            On October
7, 2024, Maxi filed this Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
 
            On December
31, 2024, Colonnade filed an opposition. 
 
            On January 3,
2025, Maxi replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under section
877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure,[1] “[a] determination by the
court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor . . .
for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity,
based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (§ 877.6, subd. (c).)  Additionally, a determination that a
settlement was made in good faith will reduce the claims against the
non-settling defendants by the amount specified in the settlement agreement.  (§ 877.6, subd. (a).)  “The party asserting the lack of good faith
has the burden of proof on that issue.” 
(§ 877.6, subd. (d).)  
 
Section 877.6
requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its aegis
to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s dual
objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the parties
at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement).  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (Tech-Bilt).)  Good faith settlements further two sometimes
competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the parties at
fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.¿ (Erreca’s v. Superior
Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1487.)¿ The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is¿required to “be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”¿ (Tech-Bilt, 38
Cal.3d at p. 499.) ¿
 
In Tech-Bilt,
the California Supreme Court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement was made in good faith.  The Tech-Bilt factors
are: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Id. at pp. 498-501.)  
 
             In City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251 (Grand
Terrace), the Court of Appeal provided the following guidance regarding a
good faith settlement determination:¿¿ 
 
“If the good faith settlement is contested,
section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule for the
hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the
settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the
nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith. If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.” 
 
(City of Grand Terrace, supra, 192
Cal.App.3d at pp. 1261-62.)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            As a
threshold issue, Colonnade argues the motion should be denied because Maxi and
Colonnade “are neither joint tortfeasors nor co-obligors on any contract.”  (Opp’n., 10:24-25.)  In other words, Colonnade’s position is that
Section 877.6 does not apply because Maxi is a party to this action via
Colonnade’s Cross-Complaint; Maxi is not a defendant in Plaintiff’s
complaint.  
 
The argument lacks merit. 
It is well-settled, “[i]f a cross-defendant without legal liability to
the plaintiff settles with the plaintiff in an amount within the reasonable
range of what the cross-defendant’s liability would be, the interests of
the nonsettling cross-complainant are protected, and both the policies of
encouraging settlements and equitable financial sharing are served. However,
when such a cross-defendant enters into a disproportionately low settlement
with the plaintiff solely to obtain immunity from the cross-complaint, the
inference that the settlement was not made in good faith is difficult to avoid.”  (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1354, emphasis in original.)  Section 877.6 is available to Maxi.  Therefore, the court proceeds to consider the
Tech-Bilt factors.  
 
Application of the
Tech-Bilt Factors 


1.     
Rough Approximation of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery and the
Settlor’s
Proportionate
Liability. 
 
The first Tech-Bilt
factor consists of two parts – a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total
recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability.  When approximating a plaintiff’s total
recovery or the settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should .
. . not yearn for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.  Because the application of section 877.6
requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case go to trial,
all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive conclusion.”  (North County Contractor’s Assn. v.
Touchstone Ins. Services (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090 (North County).)  “The
ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the settlement is grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of the settlement
would estimate the settlor’s liability to be.” (City of Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1262.)  
 
Even though “an
offer of settlement must bear some relationship to one’s proportionate
liability, bad faith is not ‘established by a showing that a settling defendant
paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair share.’  [Citation.]” 
(North County, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p.1090.)  “Such a rule would unduly discourage
settlements” and “convert the pretrial settlement approval procedure into a
full-scale mini-trial.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  Rather,
in order to meet the proportionality requirement, “all that is necessary is
that there be a ‘rough approximation’ between a settling tortfeasor’s offer of
settlement and his proportionate liability. 
[Citation.]”  (North County,
supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1090-91.)  In determining whether the settling
defendant’s settlement figure is “within the ballpark” of his fair share of
liability, the Court may rely on “the judge’s personal experience” and the experience
of “experts in the field.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 500.)

            Additionally, “a court not
only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s liability to the plaintiff, but it must
also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged
to be responsible for the same injury. 
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. 
[Citation.]”  (TSI Seismic
Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) 

            Under the terms of the
settlement, Maxi has agreed to a settlement of $35,000.00, to be paid by Maxi’s
insurance carrier.  In exchange, Plaintiff
will release any and all claims that arise out of or relate to Plaintiff’s
complaint as to Maxi.  
 
The settlement of
$35,000 reflects roughly 48% of Plaintiff’s property damage claim.  Colonnade argues the settlement amount does accurately
reflect Maxi’s central role in Plaintiff’s damages.  (Opp’n, at p. 12.)  In support, Colonnade submits Maxi’s
responses to Colonnade’s special interrogatories wherein Maxi admits to
waterproofing the flashing at the Development in 2016.  (Daley Decl., Ex. 5 (Maxi’s Responses to
Special Interrogatories 2 & 3 at pp. 153-54).)  Colonnade also submits Plaintiff’s evidence to
establish that the only property damage not associated with Maxi’s work is
damage to the flooring in a closet which represents a small fraction of the
overall damage.  (Daley Decl., Ex. 7, at
pp. 178, 182.)  In other words, Colonnade
contends Maxi’s share of liability exceeds Colonnade’s share of
liability which cuts against the reasonableness of the settlement.
 
In reply, Maxi
argues that bad faith is not established by showing a settling defendant paid
less than his theoretical fair share. 
The point is well taken.  The Tech-Bilt
court expressly disapproved of such a rule. 
Showing that a settling defendant paid less than his theoretical
proportionate or fair share “would unduly discourage settlements.”  (Tech-Bilt, at p. 499.)  This is so because “damages are often
speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often uncertain
or remote. And even where the claimant’s damages are obviously great, and the
liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement figure is often
reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or
underinsured, joint tortfeasor.” (Id., quoting Stambaugh v. Superior
Court (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 231, 238.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s property damages claim is not speculative, nor is the
settlement figure disproportionately low.
 
Colonnade raises three
additional challenges to the reasonableness of the settlement.  Colonnade argues the settlement does not
account for Plaintiff’s claims for loss of use, injunctive relief to repair the
flashing, and attorney fees.  These
challenges do not support a finding of bad faith.  
 
As to the loss of use claim, Colonnade
argues the settlement does not account at all for this claim, which Plaintiff
values at nearly $600,000.  However, any
parties contending that the Settling Parties have not entered into a settlement
in good faith bear the burden of proof to demonstrate the settlement was not
entered into in good faith. (§
877.6(d); City of
Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1261-62.) 
Here, as
Maxi points out, Colonnade has not offered any evidence to show the claim for
loss of use is worth $600,000.  Thus, in contrast
to Plaintiff’s property damage claim, the loss of use claim is speculative, and
the failure to consider loss of use in reaching a settlement does not serve as
a basis for a finding of bad faith. 
 
As to repair costs
to prevent future leaks, Plaintiff seeks “injunctive relief requiring
Association to maintain and repair the common, area (including the gutters,
tiles, planters, and waterproofing near the Unit) and the Unit[.]”  (Complaint, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 1.)  Colonnade offers evidence to show that the “flashing
adjacent to Sosna’s Unit is visibly corroded and needs to be repaired.”  (Colonnade’s Volume of Exhibits, Ex. 7, at
pp. 174-75.)  Colonnade argues that the
failure to consider the future repair costs in reaching the settlement figure
cuts against a finding of good faith. 
However, missing from Colonnade’s showing is any evidence to establish
that the flashing corroded due to Maxi’s waterproofing of the flashing in 2016
or that the corrosion did not exist prior to Maxi’s work on the Development in
2016.  Colonnade does not establish Maxi’s
share of liability for the cost of future repair work, let alone provide an
estimate of those repairs.  
 
As to attorney
fees, Plaintiff seeks recovery of attorney fees pursuant to the CC&Rs and
Civil Code section 5975(c).  (Complaint,
¶ 17.)  Maxi argues the failure to
consider attorney fees in the settlement does not weigh against good faith because
Plaintiff seeks recovery of attorney fees pursuant to the CC&Rs.  And as, Colonnade concedes, the CC&Rs
govern the obligations between Colonnade and Plaintiff.  (See Opp’n, p. 10:21-22.)  Maxi is a nonparty to the CC&Rs.  Thus, as Maxi’s argument goes, the
obligations arising from the CC&Rs cannot apply to Maxi, including the
ability to recover attorney fees from Maxi. 
Naturally, Colonnade argues that Plaintiff’s attorney fees claim is a
part of Plaintiff’s total recovery.  
 
  Maxi’s point is well taken.  In addition, according to the Cross-Complaint,
Colonnade seeks indemnity from Maxi if it “is found to be liable in any respect
for the damages alleged by Todd Sosna.” 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13, emphasis added.)  Plaintiff does not seek recovery of attorney
fees as damages. (See Complaint, ¶ 17.) Colonnade does not have a viable
indemnity claim against Maxi for any attorney fees Plaintiff may recover from
Colonnade.  
 
Colonnade does not
meet its burden to show the settlement figure is “not within the
ballpark.”  Further, Colonnade does not
establish that Maxi’s liability for indemnity to Colonnade is grossly
disproportionate to the settlement amount.  The first Tech-Bilt factor weighs in
favor of Maxi’s good faith settlement. 
 
2. The Amount Paid in Settlement.


Maxi will pay $35,000.00.  
 
3. The Allocation Of
Settlement Proceeds Among Plaintiffs. 
            
The allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs is only relevant if there is more than one
plaintiff.  (See Cahill v. San Diego
Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 968 (Cahill).)  Here, there is only one plaintiff.  This factor is not relevant to the good faith
inquiry.
 
4.  A
Recognition That A Settlor Should Pay Less In Settlement Than He Would If   
     He Were Found Liable After Trial. 


The court
expressly recognizes that a settlor should pay less in settlement that he would
if he were found liable after trial. 
This factor weighs in Maxi’s favor. (See Cahill, supra, 194
Cal.App.4th at p. 968.)  

             5.  The
Financial Conditions And Insurance Policy Limits Of Settling Defendants. 

            An exception to the proportionality
requirement described above is that “a disproportionately low settlement figure
is often reasonable” when the settling defendant is “relatively insolvent” and
uninsured or underinsured.  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499; see Schmid v. Superior Court
(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1245–6 [holding that “a settlement of a personal
injury lawsuit is in ‘good faith[]’ . . . where a defendant pays the plaintiff
the limit of the defendant’s insurance policy and has no assets, even though
the amount paid in settlement is far less than the likely amount of a judgement
against the defendant were the case to go to trial”]; see also County of Los
Angeles v. Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1157–8 [finding that the
settling defendant’s “modest” financial condition and insurance limits “are
necessarily controlling and effectively override the other Tech-Bilt factors”].)  
 
However, the court
must be able to ascertain the information regarding the settling party’s
financial condition or insurance coverage. “The wealth or nonwealth of settling
defendant is a factor for the trial court to consider under Tech-Bilt.” (Grand
Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at 1263-64 [“Nonsettlors assert that
there was insufficient evidence presented as to settlor’s financial condition
and he availability of additional money from USAA, both of which could have
added to the pot, if available, to make up his proportionate share in settlement.  As to this contention, we agree”].)[2]
 
Here, Maxi does not describe its financial condition.  Without evidence of Maxi’s financial
condition, the court cannot evaluate Maxi’s ability to pay an appropriate
settlement amount in relationship to its liability.  This weighs somewhat against a good faith
determination.  
 
              6. The Existence Of Collusion, Fraud, Or
Tortious Conduct Aimed To Injure   
                  The Interests Of The Non-Settling
Defendants.

            “Any negotiated settlement
involves cooperation, but not necessarily collusion.  It becomes collusive when it is aimed to
injure the interests of an absent tortfeasor. 
Although many kinds of collusive injury are possible, the most obvious
and frequent is that created by an unreasonably cheap settlement.”  (River Garden Farms, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 986, 996.) 
“Prevention of collusion is but a means to the end of preventing
unreasonably low settlements which prejudice a nonparticipating
tortfeasor.  The price of a settlement is
the prime badge of its good or bad faith. 
Construed in the light of [section 877.6’s] objectives, the good faith
release clause extends the obligation of good faith beyond the parties to the
negotiations, embracing an absent tortfeasor.” 
(Ibid.) 
 
            Here, there is no evidence to show
the settlement agreement was the product of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct.  Although the impact of the good
faith settlement would be injurious to Colonnade’s rights of indemnification,
Colonnade has not submitted any evidence to establish the settlement is out of
the ballpark.  This factor weighs
slightly in favor of a good faith settlement.      
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            After
weighing the relevant Tech-Bilt factors, the court finds the settlement
between Plaintiffs and Maxi passes the test for a good faith settlement.   
 
            Accordingly,
Maxi Serve Restoration
& Construction’s Motion for a Determination of a Good
Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
            
            Moving
party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   January 14,
2025                                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 


