 Case Number:  23STCV11510    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 14, 2025                                         TRIAL DATE:  March
9, 2026
                                                           
CASE:                         Roni Alvandi v. Alvand Transportation Corp.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11510
 





















 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER TO MAINTAIN ATTORNEYS’ EYES ONLY DESIGNATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Alvand Transportation Corp.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Roni
Alvandi
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Roni Alvandi (Plaintiff) brings this contractual
fraud action against Alvand Transportation Corp. (ATC) and Victor Alvandi
(Victor) (collectively, Defendants).  ATC
provides full-service freight and bus fleet management.  It is owned and operated by Plaintiff’s
father, Victor.  As alleged in the
complaint, Amtrak requested proposals for a three-year contract in 2022.  Because ATC did not know how to price and
submit a bid to Amtrak, Victor approached Plaintiff with an offer.  Under the terms of the offer, if Plaintiff
secured the new contract with Amtrak, Defendants would pay Plaintiff 25% of the
projected profits.  With Plaintiff’s
help, ATC submitted the winning bids to secure the contract with Amtrak.  However, Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff 25%
of the projected profits. 
 
On July 26, 2024, the parties entered into a Stipulation and
Protective Order – Confidential Attorneys Eyes Only (the Protective Order) to
streamline the discovery process.  As
relevant here, the Protective Order states, 
 
“Attorney's
Eyes Only Designation. “Attorneys’ Eyes Only” means any information that
belongs to a Designating Party who believes in good faith that it contains
proprietary or highly sensitive business information, the Disclosure of which
is likely to cause significant harm to the business or competitive position of
the designating party that cannot be avoided by less restrictive means. The
Designating Party shall have the right to designate as “Attorneys’ Eyes Only”
only non-public Documents, Testimony or Information that have not been
previously disclosed to the other Party or non-Party.”
 
(Protective Order, ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff propounded Requests for Production of Documents on
ATC concerning ATC’s financial information. 
In response, ATC produced its tax returns for 2018, 2022, and 2023, an Amtrak
Pricing Schedule, and additional financial documents such as balance sheets and
profit and loss statements.  ATC
designated these documents as Attorney’s Eyes Only (AEO).  Plaintiff objected to the AEO designation.[1]
 
On November 15, 2024, ATC filed this Motion for Protective
Order to maintain the AEO designation.  ATC
seeks to prevent Plaintiff himself from viewing the AEO-designated documents.
 
On December 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
On January 8, 2025, ATC replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, … That a trade secret or
other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be
disclosed, or be disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified
way.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subd. (b)(5).)
 
ATC seeks to maintain the AEO designation of its tax returns
from 2018-2022, an Amtrak Pricing Schedule, balance sheets and profit and loss
statements as AEO.  Plaintiff asserts
that ATC’s designation is improper.  
 
This case turns on the language of the Protective Order.  As relevant here, the Protective Order states,

 
“Attorney’s
Eyes Only Designation. “Attorneys’ Eyes Only” means any information that
belongs to a Designating Party who believes in good faith that it contains
proprietary or highly sensitive business information, the Disclosure of which
is likely to cause significant harm to the business or competitive position of
the designating party that cannot be avoided by less restrictive means. The
Designating Party shall have the right to designate as “Attorneys’ Eyes Only”
only non-public Documents, Testimony or Information that have not been
previously disclosed to the other Party or non-Party.”
 
(Protective Order, ¶ 9.)
“Disclose”
or “Disclosed” or “Disclosure” means to reveal, divulge, give, or make
available Materials, or any part thereof, or any information contained therein.
 
(Protective Order, ¶ 1(f).)
            
ATC argues the AEO-designated information is entitled to
continued protection from disclosure to Plaintiff himself because Plaintiff, as
ATC’s competitor, could use ATC’s sensitive financial information for his own
personal gain.  In support, ATC explains Plaintiff
has already used such information once before when Plaintiff usurped ATC’s attempts
to acquire AmericanStar Tours[2]
by acquiring AmericanStar Tours for Plaintiff’s personal gain.  (Madnick Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  ATC further explains good cause exists to
maintain the designation because the information includes: (i) highly sensitive
financial, sales, forecasting, pricing, marketing, and client information which
would be valuable to competitors and harmful to ATC if disclosed; (ii) 
Plaintiff is ATC’s competitor; (iii) the information is available
to Plaintiff’s counsel and/or his experts to analyze, just not to Plaintiff
himself; and (iv) the information Plaintiff requests was not disclosed to him.
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff raises procedural and substantive challenges to ATC’s motion.  He argues (1) ATC did not meet and confer
prior to filing this motion, (2) ATC does not satisfy the standard needed for
AEO designation, and (3) the documents are improperly designated because they
were disclosed to Plaintiff and to non-parties.[3]  The court addresses these challenges in turn.
 
            First, the
parties discussed the propriety of the AEO designations in email
communications.  (See Madnick Decl., Exhs.
C, D, E.)  ATC satisfied its meet and
confer obligations prior to the filing of this motion.
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that ATC must “establish that the
documents contain ‘proprietary or highly sensitive business information, the Disclosure
of which is likely to cause significant harm to the business or competitive
position of the designating party that cannot be avoided by less restrictive
means.’” (Opposition, p. 1:19-21.)  This
is incorrect.  As set forth in the
Protective Order, an AEO designation is proper if the “Designating Party who believes
in good faith that it contains proprietary or highly sensitive business
information, the disclosure of which is likely to cause significant harm to the
business or competitive position of the designating party that cannot be
avoided by less restrictive means.”  Further,
designation applies only to “non-public Documents, Testimony or Information
that have not been previously disclosed to the other Party or non-Party.”  Stated another way, ATC need
only establish a good faith belief, the non-public nature of the information,
and no prior disclosure to Plaintiff or a non-party. 
 
Third, Plaintiff’s disclosure argument is based upon an
understanding that disclosure encompasses documents that have not been provided
to Plaintiff or non-parties prior to litigation. 
ATC argues disclosure means documents disclosed during
litigation because Plaintiff’s interpretation would render the AEO designation
meaningless.  
Plaintiff prevails. 
The Protective Order states: “The Designating Party shall have the right
to designate as “Attorneys’ Eyes Only” only non-public Documents, Testimony or
Information that have not been previously disclosed to the other Party or
non-Party.” (Protective Order, ¶ 9, emphasis added.)  “ ‘Disclose’ or ‘Disclosed’ or ‘Disclosure’
means to reveal, divulge, give, or make available Materials, or any part
thereof, or any information contained therein.” (Protective
Order, ¶ 1(f).)  The plain language of
the Protective Order does not contain any limitation on when the disclosure was
made and thus encompasses information that was disclosed prior to the litigation.  
 
Plaintiff’s interpretation is also well-founded.  In support, Plaintiff submits a redline of
the Protective Order which includes the “previously disclosed” language to the
Protective Order which was not present in a prior draft.  (Shaumyan Decl., Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff’s counsel further attests that the
parties negotiated this language to ensure only non-public documents that
Alvand had not previously provided to Plaintiff or non-parties could be marked
as Attorneys’ Eyes Only.  (Shaumyan
Decl., ¶
2.)  ATC does not dispute that the
language was negotiated for this specific purpose. 
 
The court finds the AEO designation should not be
maintained.  The parties appear to agree
that Plaintiff viewed or helped produce the challenged documents during his
consultation with ATC.  The
AEO-designated documents were therefore disclosed to Plaintiff within the
meaning of the Protective Order.  ATC
does not submit any evidence identifying which, if any, documents were not
disclosed previously to Plaintiff.  
 
III.       CONCLUSION         
            Based on
the foregoing, the Motion is DENIED. 
            Plaintiff
to give notice.
 
Dated:   January 14, 2025                               




 


   




 


 
  Kerry Bensinger  
 
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 


