 Case Number:  23STCV20436    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - without Motion to Strike
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - without Motion to Strike is sustained in part and
overruled in part. 
                                                                                                                                        
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Jerry Griess, Bakman Pacific, LLC, Burlington Pacifici
LLC, Berendo Pacific LLC, Chase Pacific LLC, Redondo Pacific LLC, East Pacific
LLC, and Pledmont Pacific LLC (Plaintiffs) filed this action against Craig Chalfant (Defendant) seeking a
declaratory judgment that Plaintiffs have fulfilled all their obligations under
a settlement agreement with Defendant. 
Defendant (Cross-Complainant) filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC) against Plaintiffs, Brett Cyprus, Gail Cyprus, and Spaulding Pacific,
LLC (Cross-Defendants) alleging (1) multiple fraud-related actions; (2) multiple
elder abuse actions; (3) Breach of Contact; (4) Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (5) Tenant and Housing Law Violations; (6) Civil
Extortion; (7) Unfair Competition Law violation; (8) Emotional Distress –
multiple actions; (9) Civil Conspiracy; (10) Abuse of Process; and (11)
Declaratory Relief. 
The motion now before the Court is Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - without
Motion to Strike
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538.
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without
leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of
action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can
be cured by amendment.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Cross-Complainant’s request for judicial notice is denied.
 
ANALYSIS
Meet and Confer
Cross-Complainant argues that Cross-Defendants failed to
meet and confer, and therefore, the Court should strike the demurrer.
The Court finds that Cross-Defendants have satisfied their
obligation to attempt to meet and confer. Regardless, failure to meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).
Accordingly, the Court will consider the merits of the demurrer. 
I.  Length of FACC
Cross-Defendants argue that the FACC is vague, uncertain,
and unintelligible on all counts because it is overly long and contains
irrelevant material. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.10, subdivision (a)
provides in relevant part, “A complaint or cross-complaint shall contain … [a]
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.”
Failure to use concise language is not grounds for sustaining
a demurrer. See Moropoulos v. C. H. & O. B. Fuller Co. (1921)
186 Cal. 679, 686 (noting complaint had been written without “putting it in
concise language, and with the addition of much surplusage.”). “The rule that
the complaint must contain a statement of the facts in ordinary and concise
language is completely ignored. Nevertheless, if, intermingled with such
matters, there are averments of ultimate facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, it was error to sustain the demurrer without leave.” M. G.
Chamberlain & Co. v. Simpson (1959) 173 Cal.App.2d 263, 267 (citation
omitted). “A complaint will be held to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action if, upon a consideration of all of the facts stated, it appears
that the plaintiff is entitled to any relief, even though the facts may not be
clearly stated or may be intermingled with irrelevant facts or the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.” Marin
v. Jacuzzi (1964) 224 Cal.App.2d 549, 552.
“Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted
only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond. A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695 (cleaned up). 
The Cross-Complaint is over 500 pages long and contains many
repetitive allegations. However, that alone is not a valid basis for sustaining
a demurrer. Defendants argue that the Supreme Court has said, "[a]
complaint should be kept to a reasonable length.” Committee On Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217,
superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227. However, the
context of that statement was that greater detail was not necessary to meet the
specificity requirement for fraud claims. Ibid (“A complaint which set
out each advertisement verbatim, and specified the time, place, and medium,
might seem to represent perfect compliance with the specificity requirement,
but as a practical matter, it would provide less effective notice and be less useful
in framing the issues than would a shorter, more generalized version.”) Cross-Defendants
provide no authority for the proposition that a court may sustain a demurrer merely
because the complaint is not concise. Nor do they identify with any
specificity, the source of uncertainty within the complaint, other than its
length. Accordingly, the Court overrules the special demurrer for uncertainty
based on the length of the complaint. 
 
II. Litigation Privilege
Cross-Defendants argue that the litigation privilege bars each
of the causes of action because they are based upon statements made as part
of a settlement negation.  
“[T]he litigation privilege, set forth in Civil Code section
47, subdivision (b) … holds as privileged statements made in any ‘judicial
proceeding.’” Navarro v. IHOP Properties, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
834, 843. Statements relating to settlement fall within the privilege,
“including those made during settlement negotiations.” Ibid. “[T]he
absolute litigation privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), bars
derivative tort actions and applies to all torts other than malicious
prosecution, including fraud, negligence and negligent misrepresentation.” Kuehn
v. Kuehn (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 824, 834 (citation omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted). 
Here, Plaintiff’s fraud claims are based on the following alleged
statement made in a letter by Greiss’s former attorney, Andrew R. Kisli, during
settlement negations: “Please note that because you are no longer a resident manager,
you no longer have a right to reside in your current rental unit. Should you refuse
to accept this settlement, you must agree in writing to pay the current market rent
in the City of Los Angeles for a 1 bedroom apartment, $1924 per month. Should you
fail to do so, Mr. Griess will file an unlawful detainer action to obtain a
Court Order requiring you to vacate the premises.” FACC ¶ 23. 
Cross-Claimant alleges in the FACC that these were false
statements of law, which fraudulently induced him to sign the settlement
agreement. FACC ¶ 25. Because it is apparent on the face of the FACC that the
allegedly fraudulent statement was made as part of a settlement negation, Cross-Claimant’s
claims for fraud are barred by the litigation privilege. Likewise, based on the
same facts, the civil extortion claim is barred by the litigation
privilege. See Flickinger v. Finwall (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 822,
84 (holding the litigation privilege bars a claim of civil extortion). However,
while referenced in some of the other causes of action, the privileged
communication is not obviously the sole basis for the remaining claims. Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer based on litigation privilege is sustained without leave
to amend as to all fraud claims (causes of action 1-8) and the civil extortion
claim (cause of action 23) and overruled as to all other claims.
III. Uncertainty
Cross-Defendants argue that the FACC is uncertain because it
contains contradictory facts.
While plaintiffs are permitted to plead inconsistent legal
theories, they are not permitted to plead inconsistent facts. See Steiner v.
Rowley (1950) 35 Cal.2d 713, 719 (contradictory or antagonistic
facts are not allowed); See also Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945 (“In the absence of inconsistent factual allegations any
inconsistency between plaintiff's legal theories is immaterial.”) (citations
omitted) (internal quotations omitted). A court is not required to accept as
true allegations contrary to factual allegations in former pleading in the same
case. Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336,
343.
Cross-Defendants argue that the FACC is contradictory
because Cross-Complainant argues that the settlement agreement does not exist
because it is unenforceable due to misrepresentation or fraud, but also argues
that Cross-Defendants breached the settlement agreement. The Court disagrees.
This is a permissible pleading of inconsistent theories, not antagonistic
facts. While they may not simultaneously recover on both theories, 
“a plaintiff may plead inconsistent claims that allege both the existence of an
enforceable agreement and the absence of an enforceable agreement.” Klein v.
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1389. 
IV. Elder Abuse (Counts 9-11)
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant fails to plead
the elements of violating Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600, etc.
“The Elder Abuse Act defines ‘abuse’ as ‘[p]hysical abuse,
neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting
physical harm or pain or mental suffering,’ ‘deprivation by a care custodian of
goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental
suffering,’ or ‘[f]inancial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.’” Arace
v. Medico Investments, LLC (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 977, 982 (quoting Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.07, subd. (a)). 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Claimant failed to plead
the required elements of financial elder abuse. 
The elements of a financial elder abuse claim are (1) defendants
took the elder’s property; (2) that the elder was 65 years of age or older at
the time of the conduct; (3) defendants took/hid/appropriated/obtained the
elder’s property for either a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud; (4)
that the elder was harmed; and (5) that defendants’ conduct was a substantial
factor in causing the elder’s harm. CACI 3100.
Cross-Claimant fails to identify any property that
Cross-Defendants took from him. To the extent that the alleged property taken is
the rights he surrendered by signing the settlement agreement, the litigation
privilege barred the claim. FACC ¶ 496. Accordingly, the demurrer to the ninth cause
of action for elder fraud is sustained with leave to amend.
Next, Cross-Defendants argue that as Cross-Claimant's
landlord, they were not his caregivers and are not liable for neglect. 
Neglect is defined in relevant apart as “The negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent
adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like
position would exercise.” Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (a)(1).
Cross-Claimant fails to plead any facts showing that
Cross-Defendants were his caregivers. His assertions that the role of a
landlord is analogous to that of a caregiver are legal conclusions that the
Court is not required to accept as true. Accordingly, the Court sustains the
demurrer with leave to amend as to the tenth cause of action for neglect of an
elder. 
For the reasons stated above, the Court likewise sustains the
demurrer to the eleventh count for conspiracy to commit elder abuse with leave
to amend.
 
 
V. Breach of Contract 
Additionally, Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant
fails to properly plead any of his contract claims properly.
To properly plead breach of contract, “[i]f the action is
based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must
be attached and incorporated by reference." Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal. App. 3d 452, 459. Alternatively,
"in an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language." Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 189,
198-199.
Cross-Claimant failed to state the terms of the contract,
attach a copy of the contract to the complaint, or state the contract's operative
terms. FACC at pp. 390-394. Therefore, he fails to properly plead any breach of
contract claim. Likewise, he fails to properly plead a breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which provides that “that neither
party will do anything which will injure the right of the other to receive the
benefits of the agreement.” Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 578, 589 (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). Therefore,
the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to causes of action twelve,
thirteen, and fourteen. 
VI. Tenant and Housing Claims (Counts 15-19)
Next, Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant fails to
properly plead any tenant and housing claims. The Court agrees. 
A. Statutory Claims
First, Cross-Defendants argue that these causes of action do
not meet heightened pleading standards applicable to statutory claims.
Statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity. Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.
Cross-Claimant provides a list of statutes Cross-Defendants
allegedly violated but fails to allege sufficient specifics. He does not
provide any dates associated with the alleged unlawful rent increases, failure
to provide mandatory rent registration notices, failure to keep an onsite
manager or any facts supporting his allegation of lease modification. FACC ¶¶
1090-95. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the
fifteenth cause of action for violation of tenant protection statutes.
B. Implied Warranty of Habitability 
Cross-Complainant also fails to state a claim for breach of
the implied warranty of habitability.
The elements of a breach of implied warranty of habitability
claim "are the existence of a material defective condition affecting the
premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a
reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was
given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages."
Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1297, 173
The Cross-Complainant fails to allege that he notified the
landlord of the defective condition, and if so, on what date. Accordingly, the sixteenth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
C. Tenant Harassment 
Cross-Complainant fails to state a cause of action for
tenant harassment. 
“Tenant Harassment shall be defined as a landlord’s knowing
and willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that
causes detriment and harm, and that serves no lawful purpose, including…
Failing to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance
required by Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws…Attempting
to coerce the tenant to vacate with offer(s) of payments.” L.A. Municipal Code §
45.33. 
While Cross-Complainant alleges failures to complete
necessary repairs, he does not state when he told Cross-Defendants about the
need for repair or when repairs were done, if ever. FACC ¶ 1162; 1159. Additionally,
his claim that the settlement agreement constitutes an attempt to coerce the
tenant to vacate with offers of payments is barred by the litigation privilege.
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to count seventeen.

D. Breach of Quiet Enjoyment 
Cross-Complainant likewise fails to allege a claim for
breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.
The elements of a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2)
absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have
quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under the landlord, which "substantially interfere[s] with a
tenant[']s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by
the tenancy"; and (4) an applicable remedy. See Andrews v. Mobile Aire
Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.
As with the breach of contract claim, Cross-Claimant fails
to attach a copy of the lease or plead its operative terms. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the eighteenth count for breach of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment is sustained with leave to amend. 
E. Wrongful Eviction
Cross-Complainant fails to plead facts sufficient to allege
a claim for wrongful eviction. 
“An essential element of a wrongful eviction claim is that
the tenant has vacated the premises.” Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 873, 900 (citation omitted).
As pleaded, Cross-Complainant has not vacated the premises.
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the claim for
wrongful eviction.


VII. Nuisance
Cross-Defendants list the nuisance claim among those they
demur to but provide no argument. Motion at p. 25:13-26:9. Accordingly, the
Court overrules the demurrer as to the nuisance claim. 
VIII. Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Likewise, Cross-Defendants list the negligent infliction of
emotional distress claim among those they demur to but provide no argument.
Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer as to the negligent infliction of
emotional distress claim. Demurrer at p. 25:13-26:9.
IX Intentional Infliction of emotional distress. 
Cross-Defendants argue that the claim of intentional
infliction of emotional distress fails to state a cause of action because Cross-Complainant
directs this cause of action at every single cross-defendant without
allegations that each of them partook in any of the alleged conduct.
Cross-Complainant alleges that Griess is “responsible for
the actions and decisions of the limited liability companies listed as
cross-defendants.” FACC ¶ 3. However, this is a legal conclusion, not entitled
to a presumption of truth. Additionally, Cross-Complainant states that “‘Jerry’
shall be inclusive of all cross-defendants.” Ibid. He further alleges
that Griess, Brett Cyprus, and Gail Cyprus were “at all relevant times” owners
of the named LLCs involved in this matter. FACC ¶¶ 4-5. Further,
Cross-Complaint alleges that these companies are nothing but the alter egos of the
three individual Cross-Defendants. FACC ¶¶ 58-65.
“The ‘single enterprise,’ or alter ego, doctrine is an
equitable doctrine: ‘A corporate identity may be disregarded—the “corporate
veil” pierced—where an abuse of the corporate privilege justifies holding the
equitable ownership of a corporation liable for the actions of the corporation.”
Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1341 (citation
omitted). “In California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego
doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” Ibid. (citations omitted) (internal
quotation marks omitted). Alter ego liability is not limited to the parent
corporations and subsidiaries but can also apply to affiliated companies. Ibid.
In applying the doctrine, courts consider the following
factors: (1) the commingling of funds and assets of the two entities, (2) identical
equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees,
(3) disregard of corporate formalities, (4) identical directors and officers,
and (5) use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other. Cam-Carson,
LLC v. Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549-550. Courts
look to the totality of the circumstances, and no one factor is dispositive. Whether
a party is liable under an alter ego theory is normally a question of fact. Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811.
Cross-Complainant alleges that the LLCs were all owned by
the same three people, that when Cross-Defendants employed him, he received his
salary from different LLCs interchangeably, that money was transferred across
LLCs for non-entity specific functions, management decisions were uniformly applied
across the LLCs, and a uniform lease agreement that had the various LLCS listed
with checkboxes. FACC ¶¶ 58-65. The Court finds that Cross-Complainant has
adequately alleged facts supporting his argument that each LLC is an alter ego
for the three owners and the other LLCs. Accordingly, the demurrer as to the
intentional infliction of emotional distress claim for failure to identify
which of the Cross-Defendants engaged in the alleged malicious conduct is
overruled. 
 
X. Unfair Competition
Cross-Defendant demurs to the third cause of action,
violation of Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section
17200 et seq., (the “UCL”), arguing Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts
to support the cause of action. 
“California Business and Professions Code Sections 17000, et
seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall mean and
include unlawful, unfair fraudulent business practices.” Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618-19. “By proscribing ‘any
unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL ‘borrows’ rules set out in other
laws and makes violations of those rules independently actionable. However, a
practice may violate the UCL even if it is not prohibited by another statute.” Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
803, 835 (citation omitted). To prevail on a UCL claim, there must be “some
connection between the wrongdoing and the harm.” In re Firearm Cases
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 959, 979.
While Cross-Complainant lists a pattern of misconduct done
to others, the only unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent act he alleges
Cross-Defendants did to him concerns the settlement agreement, which is
protected by the litigation privilege. FACC ¶ 1350. Additionally,
Cross-Complainant’s alleged damages are a loss of “financial stability and
housing security.” FACC ¶ 1351. However, he acknowledges that he was paid
$25,000 under the settlement agreement, does not plead that he paid the higher
rent, and acknowledges that he never vacated the premises. FACC ¶ 27. Thus, he
fails to state any cognizable injury. Therefore, the demurrer to the twenty-fourth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
XI. Civil Conspiracy 
“Conspiracy is not a cause of action, but a legal doctrine
that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort
themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its
perpetration.” Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511. “Standing alone, a conspiracy does no harm and
engenders no tort liability. It must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort.” Ibid.
While Cross-Claimant may be able to argue civil conspiracy
to establish liability between Cross-Defendants for other claims, it is not
itself a cause of action. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to the civil
conspiracy cause of action without leave to amend. 
XII. Abuse of Process
“The common law tort of abuse of process arises when one
uses the court's process for a purpose other than that for which the process
was designed. To succeed in an action for abuse of process, a litigant must
establish that the defendant (1) contemplated an ulterior motive in using the
process, and (2) committed a willful act in the use of the process not proper
in the regular conduct of the proceedings.” JSJ Limited Partnership v.
Mehrban (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1512, 1522 (citation omitted) (internal quotation
marks omitted). “‘Abuse of process is not just another name for malicious
prosecution.… Malicious prosecution and abuse of process are
distinct. The former concerns a meritless lawsuit (and all the damage it
inflicted). The latter concerns the misuse of the tools the law affords
litigants once they are in a lawsuit (regardless of whether there was probable
cause to commence that lawsuit in the first place).’” S.A. v. Maiden
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 41-42 (quoting Bidna v. Rosen (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 27, 40).
Cross-Complainant alleges that Plaintiffs brought their declaratory
relief action for the improper purpose of his wrongful eviction. This speaks
only to the Plaintiffs’ reason for bringing the suit, not to their conduct in
litigating it. Accordingly, the demurrer to the abuse of process action is
sustained with leave to amend.
XII. Declaratory Relief
Cross-Defendants argue that the claim for declaratory relief
is moot, because Cross-Claimant has repudiated the settlement agreement.
To qualify for declaratory relief, a plaintiff must allege
two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights
or obligations of a party. Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527,
546. Where “[a plaintiff] has a fully matured cause of action for money, he
must seek damages, and not pursue a declaratory relief claim.” Jolley v.
Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 910. 
Cross-Claimant seeks “a judicial declaration regarding [his]
rights, status, and other legal relations under the rent control ordinance and
his employment agreement.” FACC ¶ 1409. While he makes several additional
requests for relief that are not appropriately categorized as declaratory, he
has appropriately alleged that there is a dispute about whether the rent
control ordinance protects him. Moreover, because he has not alleged he has
paid any of the increased rent, on the face of the pleadings, Cross-Complainant
does not have a present claim for money damages but a controversy as to his
rights going forward. Accordingly, the demurrer to the declaratory relief cause
of action is overruled. 
 
CONCLUSION
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer - without Motion to Strike is sustained
in part and denied in part. The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as
to the causes of action for fraud, civil extortion, and civil conspiracy (causes
of action 1-8, 23, and 25). The demurrer is overruled as to the nuisance,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and declaratory relief claims (causes of action 20, 21, 22, and 27).
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to all other claims. Cross-Defendant
to give notice. Cross-Complainant has thirty days to amend. 
The Court strongly urges Cross-Complainant to shorten his
amended cross-complaint. It is not necessary to include precedent or legal
argument in the complaint. All that is required are “[a] statement of the facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language …
[and] [a] demand for judgment for the relief to which the pleader claims to be
entitled. If the recovery of money or damages is demanded, the amount demanded
shall be stated.” Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10, subd. (a) (emphasis added). The
facts need only be stated once and can be incorporated into all subsequent
causes of action without repeating them. 



 