 Case Number:  23CHCV01639    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/11/24
Case #23CHCV01639
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 4/23/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Marc Davis and Mom’s Haus, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Geneva Fontenette
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
1.      Breach
of Written Contract 
2.      Financial
Elder Abuse
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to the 1st
cause of action and sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to the 2nd
cause of action.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an “Operating Agreement”
entered on 5/5/20 between Defendant Mom’s Haus, LLC (Mom’s Haus) and Plaintiff
Geneva Fontenette (Plaintiff) who was 82 years old at or around the time the
contract was entered.  The “Operating
Agreement” was signed by Defendant Marc Davis (Davis) on behalf of Mom’s Haus,
LLC.  Pursuant to the “Operating
Agreement,” Mom’s Haus was purchasing the restaurant Mom’s Bar-B-Que House from
Plaintiff.  
 
Pursuant to the agreement, Mom’s Haus was to pay
Plaintiff a total of $70,000.000 with $35,000.00 due on 5/1/20 and the
remaining balance paid in 24 monthly installments of $1,458.33 to begin not
less than 90 days after the expiration of the California statewide mandate on
business closures pursuant to the Covid-19 pandemic.  (See First Amended Complaint (FAC),
Ex.1).
 
Plaintiff alleges that Mom’s Haus has defaulted on 10 of
the 24 payments due under the contract and has refused to perform under the
contract.  (FAC ¶¶16-17).  Plaintiff alleges that defendants/Mom’s Haus
owe her $14,583.30, plus attorneys’ fees and costs as provided for in the
contract  (FAC ¶18).
 
On 6/7/23, Plaintiff filed the instant action against
Davis and Mom’s Haus (collectively, Defendants) for: (1) Financial Elder Abuse,
(2) Unfair Business Practices, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Breach of Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Unjust Enrichment and (6) Negligent
Misrepresentation.  After meet and confer
efforts failed to resolve all of the issues Defendants had with the complaint,
on 12/28/23, Defendants filed and served a demurrer to the entire complaint.  On 2/14/24, the Court sustained the demurrer
without leave to amend as to the 2nd, 4th, 5th
and 6th causes of action and with 30 days leave to amend as to the 1st
and 3rd causes of action.  (See
2/14/24 Minute Order).
On 3/15/24, Plaintiff filed and served the subject First
Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract
and (2) Financial Elder Abuse.  After
meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the issues Defendants had with the
First Amended Complaint, on 4/23/24, Defendants filed and served the instant
demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.  CCP 430.10(e), (f).  On 5/14/24, Plaintiff filed and served an
opposition to the demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1st cause of action – Breach of Written Contract
 
The elements of a breach of contract cause of action are:
(1) a contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach and (4) resulting damage.  
Richman (2014) 224 CA4th 1182, 1186.   Plaintiff
has alleged sufficient facts to support the necessary elements of a breach of
contract cause of action.  (See
FAC ¶¶5-6, 14-18).  Defendants’ argument
that they had a valid reason not to pay amounts due under the contract are
outside the pleading and cannot be considered on demurrer.
 
2nd cause of action – Financial Elder Abuse
 
Welfare and Institutions Code 15610.30 provides: 
 
“(a) ‘Financial abuse’ of an elder
or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult
for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or
dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining,
or retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
(b) A person or entity shall be
deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property
for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or entity takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the person or
entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to
the elder or dependent adult.
(c) For purposes of this section, a
person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property when an elder or dependent adult is deprived of any property
right, including by means of an agreement, donative transfer, or testamentary
bequest, regardless of whether the property is held directly or by a
representative of an elder or dependent adult.
(d) For purposes of this section,
“representative” means a person or entity that is either of the following:
(1) A conservator, trustee, or
other representative of the estate of an elder or dependent adult.
(2) An attorney-in-fact of an elder
or dependent adult who acts within the authority of the power of attorney.”
 
Welfare & Institutions Code 15610.70 provides: 
 
“(a) ‘Undue influence’ means
excessive persuasion that causes another person to act or refrain from acting
by overcoming that person's free will and results in inequity. In determining
whether a result was produced by undue influence, all of the following shall be
considered:
(1) The vulnerability of the
victim. Evidence of vulnerability may include, but is not limited to,
incapacity, illness, disability, injury, age, education, impaired cognitive
function, emotional distress, isolation, or dependency, and whether the influencer
knew or should have known of the alleged victim's vulnerability.
(2) The influencer's apparent
authority. Evidence of apparent authority may include, but is not limited to,
status as a fiduciary, family member, care provider, health care professional,
legal professional, spiritual adviser, expert, or other qualification.
(3) The actions or tactics used by
the influencer. Evidence of actions or tactics used may include, but is not
limited to, all of the following:
(A) Controlling necessaries of
life, medication, the victim's interactions with others, access to information,
or sleep.
(B) Use of affection, intimidation,
or coercion.
(C) Initiation of changes in
personal or property rights, use of haste or secrecy in effecting those
changes, effecting changes at inappropriate times and places, and claims of
expertise in effecting changes.
(4) The equity of the result.
Evidence of the equity of the result may include, but is not limited to, the
economic consequences to the victim, any divergence from the victim's prior
intent or course of conduct or dealing, the relationship of the value conveyed
to the value of any services or consideration received, or the appropriateness
of the change in light of the length and nature of the relationship.
(b) Evidence of an inequitable
result, without more, is not sufficient to prove undue influence.”
 
Statutory claims, such as a claim for financial elder
abuse, must be pled with particularity.  See
Covenant Care, Inc. (2004) 32 C4th 771, 790; Carter (2011) 198
CA4th 396, 410.  
 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff has still failed to allege sufficient specific
facts to state a claim for financial elder abuse.  
The facts alleged provide that Plaintiff was 82 years old
at or around the time the contract was entered; Plaintiff was acquainted with
Davis as he was a long-customer of Plaintiff’s restaurant;  in or around March 2020, Davis suggested that
Plaintiff sell him the restaurant; Plaintiff was worried about her financial
condition because her husband had passed away and her sixty-one year old son had
sickle-cell anemia; the day after her husband died on 5/4/20, Plaintiff signed
the contract for the sale of the restaurant without having time to review it
and thereafter, Defendants breached the sales contract.  (See FAC ¶¶1-4, 6, 16).
 
Plaintiff concludes, without any factual support, that Davis
had a position of financial superiority over plaintiff and access to legal
forms to allegedly “come up with a wholly-deficient agreement.”  (FAC ¶5). 
Additionally, it is not clear how Davis’s alleged failure to comply with
“corporate formalities” in setting up Mom’s Haus LLC allegedly defrauded
Plaintiff out of the business.  (FAC ¶3).
 
Unlike in Mahan, cited by Plaintiff, Plaintiff has
not pled that she was suffering from mental incapacity and/or was in cognitive
decline at or around the time the contract was entered and/or that Defendants
were aware of same.  See Mahan
(2017) 14 CA5th 841, 866-867.  Plaintiff
also fails to allege sufficient facts to support her claims that she was
deceived into entering the agreement because she was grieving and emotionally
and financially stressed and/or that Defendants exercised undue influence over
Plaintiff with regard to the contract.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer to the 1st cause of action for
breach of written contract is overruled. 
The demurrer to the 2nd cause of action for financial elder
abuse is sustained.  Due to the liberal
policy of allowing leave to amend and because this is only the First Amended
Complaint, Plaintiff is given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in her
financial elder abuse cause of action.  
 
A Second Amended Complaint is due to be filed and served within
30 days.  
 
 
 
 
 
  