 Case Number:  23GDCV01210    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CESAR YANEZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORD
   MOTOR COMPANY, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23GDCV01210
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR
  PRODUCTION, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   28, 2024




 


)


 



 
          On November 28, 2023, plaintiff Cesar
Yanez (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for an order compelling defendant Ford
Motor Company (“Defendant”) to serve further responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff states in their notice of motion
that a further response to RFP Nos. 16-22, 24-25, and 27-31 is necessary
because they seek documents relevant to their Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act claims arising from their purchase of a 2021 Ford F-150 on September 9,
2021. Plaintiff’s document request Nos. 15-22, 24-25, and 27-31 seek documents
relating to Defendant’s warranty, repurchase policies, procedures, and
practices, as well as Defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar defects in
other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the vehicle purchased by
Plaintiff. 
          Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that on September 22, 2023, they drafted and served a meet and
confer letter that requested a response by September 29, 2023. Plaintiff’s
counsel further states that on October 9, 2023, defense counsel only agreed to
produce a small fraction of responsive documents without providing supplemental
responses. 
          On February
14, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief asserting that Plaintiff’s motion
is premature and moot. Defense counsel, Jason M. Richardson, declares that in a
response dated October 9, 2023, Ford agreed to produce some of the documents
requested subject to a protective order and requested that Plaintiff sign a
protective order that was concurrently provided. The proposed production would
adhere to a paragraph in discovery addendum to a standing order issued by Judge
Ralph C. Hofer in Department D in the Glendale Courthouse. This addendum was
attached to Plaintiff’s own meet and confer letter and the Court notes that the
standing order in this Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse is substantively
identical. 
Mr. Richardson claims that Plaintiff’s
counsel never responded to this offer for a supplemental production, which
ignores that Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s letter was untimely and did
not offer to produce supplemental responses. Furthermore, if Defendant is
offering to supplement its production, it should also serve supplemental
responses because Plaintiff is entitled to a sworn statement identifying the parameters
of its production. Nevertheless, the Court notes that Plaintiff did not explain
why Defendant’s offer to produce documents consistent with Judge Hofer’s
discovery addendum was inadequate. 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion and orders Defendant to serve supplemental responses which provide the
production of the following: 
- Any Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by defendant
and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of
California, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased to the present.
- Defendant’s written statements of
policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or
replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was
purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.
- Any internal analysis, investigation,
and/or communications regarding the same defects claimed by plaintiff in
vehicles of the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle which were
sold within the State of California.
- A list of or compilation of customer
complaints in defendant’s electronically stored information database that are
substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles
purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject
vehicle. A substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of
reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other
manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in any work order
or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled
maintenance items. The list provided by defendant may be in the chart or
spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership
or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’ reported
complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names, addresses, phone
numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying information.
- Technical Service Bulletins and/or
Recall Notices regarding the same defects claimed by plaintiff in vehicles of
the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle which were sold within the
State of California.
          Further
responses are due within 20 days. 
          Both parties’
requests for sanctions are DENIED as Defendant was substantially justified in
opposing this motion and Plaintiff was substantially justified in making it. 
Plaintiff did not file a reply brief.  
Dated
this 28th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 