  Case Number:  22AHCV00114    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VIOLETA MARTIN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DONALD
   RANCE WELCH, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22ahcv00114
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR) ORDER ESTABLISHING ADMISSIONS OF
   FACT BY DEFENDANT SARA WELCH
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   28, 2024



 
On January 24, 2024, plaintiff Violeta
Martin (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for an order deeming admitted the
matters within Requests for Admission (Set One) propounded on defendant Sara I.
Welch (“Defendant”). Although Plaintiff claims that the discovery requests were
served on Defendant’s counsel of record on September 22, 2023, and refers to a Declaration
of Juan F. Dotson, no such declaration or proof of service is on file and there
is no copy of the discovery requests at issue. Furthermore, it does not appear
that the discovery was properly served. The attorney on the caption page of the
answer purportedly filed by Defendant, Chris Prussak, has admitted that he did
not have authority to file the answer on Defendant’s behalf because he did not
represent Defendant and has not had contact with Defendant in 10 years. If
Prussak did not represent Defendant, serving only Prussak with the discovery
requests would not be sufficient to effectuate service on Defendant. 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
without prejudice. 
Additionally, based on the allegations
of the Complaint, it does not appear to the Court that Defendant was even served
properly with the summons and complaint because Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant resides in South Carolina and voluntarily surrendered her license to
practice law in California in 2021. (Compl., para. 3.) However, the proof of
service of summons shows that the summons and complaint were served by substituted
service on “John Doe” at 801 S. Garfield Ave Ste 288 in Alhambra, which is the
address for Welch Law Firm, on May 2, 2022. Therefore, it does not appear that Defendant
could be served at the business address for Welch Law Firm as her place of
business. Also, the name on the proof of the service is “Sara Lone Welch”,
which does not match the name on the Complaint. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 28th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 