 Case Number:  23AHCV00503    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



REBECCA DEAN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
M.
   PERNECKY MANAGEMENT CORP., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23ahcv00503
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES; REQUEST FOR
   MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February 28,
   2024



 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff Rebecca
Dean (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for an order compelling defendant M.
Pernecky Management Corp. (“Defendant”) to serve initial responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff also requests that the Court
impose monetary sanctions against Defendant and defense counsel. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) However, on February 7, 2024,
Defendant filed a declaration from counsel stating that verified responses were
served on January 26, 2024. (Miller Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.) Accordingly, the motion
for an order compelling responses is DENIED. 
Nevertheless, sanctions may be awarded
under in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though
the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed. (C.R.C. 3.1348.) 
Here, Plaintiff served her discovery
requests on August 7, 2023, but Defendant offers no reason for the delay in
providing its verified responses. Therefore, sanctions are imposed on Defendant
and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $310,
consisting of 1 hour at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $250 and a $60
filing fee, payable within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 28th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 