  Case Number:  23AHCV00378    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YI MAO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHARON
   WEI, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00378
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT SHARON
   WEI; DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANTS YI ZHANG ZHOU, 161 ALICE ST ARCADIA LLC
   AND 9416 BROADWAY LLC  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   2, 2023



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
February 22, 2023, plaintiff Yi Mao (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Sharon Wei (“Wei”), Yi Zhang Zhou (“Zhou”), 161 Alice St. Arcadia
LLC (“161 Alice LLC”), and 9416 Broadway LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) asserting
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and
abetting the breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, and
constructive trust. Plaintiff alleged he owned interests in property located at
161 Alice Street in Arcadia, California (the “Alice Property”) and 9416
Broadway in Temple City (the “Broadway Property”) 
          On
July 25, 2023, the Court ruled on a demurrer and motion to strike jointly filed
by Zhou, 161 Alice LLC and 9416 Broadway. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an amended complaint (“FAC”) which added claims to quiet title and causes of
action for constructive fraud and conversion. 
          Wei
filed a demurrer and motion to strike on September 15, 2023. Subsequently, on
September 27, 2023, Zhou, 161 Alice LLC, and 9416 Broadway LLC filed a
demurrer. Plaintiff filed opposition briefs on October 20, 2023, and Defendants
filed reply briefs on October 26, 2023. 
This order
will address both demurrers and Wei’s motion to strike. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.     DISCUSSION
A.          
The
Allegations of the FAC
1.          
The
Alice Property
As before, Plaintiff alleges that in
July 2020, Wei solicited him to invest in the Alice Property and proposed that
Plaintiff and Zhou would each own a 50% interest in the Alice Property if they
each invested $350,000. (FAC, ¶ 20.) As part of this investment project, Wei
would serve as the project manager and would be compensated with 20% of the net
profit after the Alice Property was developed and sold, as long as the net
profit from the sale was at least $400,000. (FAC, ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff agreed to invest in the Alice
Property and on or about August 4, 2020, $350,000 was transferred from his bank
account to Wei’s account at East West Bank. The money was transferred using
Plaintiff’s check which was signed and endorsed by Wei pursuant to a limited
power of attorney executed on March 14, 2012. (FAC, ¶ 21, Exs. A-B.) Plaintiff
did not discover until October 2022 that Wei wrote “Gift” on the check, which
Plaintiff claims constitutes a material breach of her fiduciary duties. 
Wei and Zhou then signed and executed
an investment project and loan agreement (the “Investment Agreement” or “Agreement”).
(FAC, ¶ 24.) The Agreement identified Wei as the project manager and listed
Zhou and Plaintiff as “Investor/Lender.” (FAC, ¶ 24.) While Plaintiff is
listed as a party, Plaintiff alleges he did not learn of this Investment
Agreement until September 30, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
On or about August 12, 2020, Wei asked
for an additional one-month emergency loan from Plaintiff in the amount of
$180,000 for the Alice Property, and induced Plaintiff into signing documents
which falsely claimed that the loan was a gift and that Wei was Plaintiff’s
sister. (FAC, ¶¶ 32-35.) Plaintiff alleges that Wei failed to fulfill her
promise to repay the loan by September 12, 2020. (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Wei committed
fraud on or about October 29, 2020, by putting her name on the transfer deed
for the Alice Property instead of listing Plaintiff and Zhou.  (FAC, ¶ 38.) 
On or about November 19, 2020, Wei
solicited Plaintiff to invest in the Broadway Property. Shortly after, Wei and
Zhou formed 161 Alice LLC. Wei filed articles of organization on or about
November 29, 2020; Zhou filed a statement of information in which Zhou listed
herself and Wei as managers or members without including Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶
40-41.) Then, on April 20, 2021, Wei transferred title to the Alice Property to
herself and Zhou; Wei and Zhou then transferred title and ownership to 161
Alice LLC. 
2.          
The
Broadway Property
From July 20 to July 27, 2022,
Plaintiff travelled to Los Angeles from Toronto, CA (which the Court previously
assumed referred to “Canada”, not “California”) to inspect his properties and
bank accounts. (FAC, ¶ 49.) On this trip, Plaintiff discovered that Wei never
returned the loan of $180,000 and confronted her, demanding immediate repayment
with 2 years of interest. (FAC, ¶¶ 50-51.) Wei claimed that she invested the
money into the Broadway Property on Plaintiff’s behalf and represented that
Plaintiff now owned a 50% interest in the Broadway Property. (FAC, ¶ 52.) 
Around October 1, 2022, Zhou, Wei, and
Plaintiff met in person. Wei and Zhou reiterated that Plaintiff’s $180,000 loan
was invested in the Broadway Property and that he was a 50% owner in both the
Alice Property and the Broadway Property; Wei and Zhou also promised to
transfer 50% of each property to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 54.) Zhou and Plaintiff
also jointly decided to put the Alice Property up for sale. (FAC, ¶ 55.) 
On or about October 7, 2022, Zhou filed
another statement of information for 161 Alice LLC. (FAC, ¶ 56, Ex. F.) Again,
Zhou failed to list Plaintiff as a member of the LLC and only listed herself
and Wei, thereby essentially representing that they were the only two owners of
the Alice Property. (FAC, ¶ 56.) The same day, Zhou filed a statement of
information for 9416 Broadway LLC which also listed herself and Wei as members
or managers, without including Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 60, Ex. G.) 
3.  
Sale
of the Alice Property and Failure to Repay Loans
On or about October 21, 2022, the Alice
Property was listed for sale at the price of $1.7 million. (FAC, ¶ 64.) On or
about January 6, 2023, unbeknownst to Plaintiff, Wei and Zhou lowered the
asking price for the Alice Property to $1.45 million. (FAC, ¶ 70.) 
On January 27, 2023, Plaintiff’s loan
to Wei for $350,000 matured, but Wei failed to repay the money to Plaintiff.
(FAC, ¶ 71.) On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff sent formal demand letters to Zhou
and Wei demanding that they restore to him his 50% interest in the Alice and
Broadway Properties, but Zhou and Wei failed to do so, resulting in the filing
of this action.  (FAC, ¶¶ 72-73.)
B.          
Wei’s
Demurrer
1.          
Improper
Amendments
As an initial matter, Wei argues that
Plaintiff was only granted leave to amend his breach of contract claim but that
Plaintiff impermissibly added his claims for quiet title, fraud, constructive
fraud, and conversion against her. 
The Court disagrees with Wei’s
assertion. The Court previously noted that Plaintiff had failed to assert any
cause of action against either of the LLC defendants; Plaintiff’s amended
complaint aimed to remedy that defect. (Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015.) Furthermore, had Plaintiff filed a noticed motion
for leave to amend in order to add the three additional claims against Wei, the
motion would have been granted; Wei notably does not argue that the statute of
limitations has run on any of these causes of action or that they are somehow
barred as a matter of law. Therefore, in the interest of judicial economy, the
Court overrules Wei’s demurrer to the First, Second, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth
Causes of Action on this ground is therefore OVERRULED. 
2.          
Third
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
Wei argues that Plaintiff fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for breach of the
Investment Agreement because: (1) there was no meeting of the minds and (2) the
Agreement itself is uncertain. (Wei Demurrer, pp. 6-8.)  Wei argues that there could not have been any
“meeting of the minds” if Plaintiff was unaware of the Agreement at the time it
was executed. Wei also argues that the Agreement is uncertain as to its
essential terms because it fails to identify the term “Project” and only refers
to “161 & 161 ½ Alice Street, Arcadia, CA 91006-3926.” (Id., p. 7.)
Wei argues that there is no indication what the “Project” would be, whether it
would be a simple acquisition and flip, an acquisition and a remodel followed
by a sale, a subdivision or consolidation, or some other transaction or series
of them. (Id.) In addition, Wei argues that neither the source of the
revenue nor profit is identified, and collectively, these missing terms show
that there is no contract because the parties’ obligations cannot be determined.
(Id.)
In opposition, Plaintiff dismisses
Wei’s claims of ambiguity and points out that no ambiguity exists because Wei
drafted the Agreement. Plaintiff also states that if Wei insists that no
contract exists, that she return the amount of $350,000 to him. At the very
least, Plaintiff argues, Wei’s actions created an implied contract between them
which she then materially breached.
It is undisputed that Plaintiff did not
sign the Investment Agreement attached as Exhibit C to the FAC, nor was he
aware of it until September 30, 2022. In this regard, Plaintiff fails to state
that the Investment Agreement constitutes an enforceable contract between him
and Wei. Nevertheless, the remainder of the FAC’s allegations supports
Plaintiff’s contention that he and Wei entered into an implied contract which
she later breached. Therefore, the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is
sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend the allegations to reflect an implied
contract instead of a written contract. 
C.          
Zhou,
161 Alice LLC, and 9416 Broadway LLC’s Demurrer
1.          
First
and Second Causes of Action to Quiet Title 
Zhou,
161 Alice LLC and 9416 Broadway demur to Plaintiff’s First and Second Causes of
Action and argue that Plaintiff is not asserting a “real property claim”
because his claims arise from a promissory note issued by Wei.  
“Real property claim” means the cause or causes of action in
a pleading which would, if meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to
possession of, specific real property or (b) the use of an easement identified
in the pleading, other than an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any
regulated public utility. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.4.) Here, Zhou and the LLC
defendants rely on Urez Corp. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d
1141, but this case is inapposite because the plaintiff was seeking to impose a
constructive trust on real property only to recover money damages, which is not
an action affecting title or possession of real property. Here, Plaintiff is
not collecting on an ordinary promissory note, but is suing for the ownership
interest in real property for which he allegedly paid Wei.  
          The demurrer
to the First and Second Causes of Action are therefore OVERRULED.  
2.  
Fifth
Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting the Breach of Fiduciary Duty
The
Court previously overruled Zhou’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for
aiding and abetting the breach of fiduciary duty. Zhou demurs once again to
this cause of action arguing that the FAC fails to state that she knew the full
extent of Plaintiff relationship with Wei. Zhou argues that she could not have
knowingly provided aid to Wei. 
The
extent of Zhou’s knowledge is an issue of fact to be resolved in litigation.
For now, Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded a claim for aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty by alleging that Zhou had actual knowledge of Wei’s
breach of her fiduciary duties. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 57-58.) 
Zhou’s
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
D.         
Wei’s Motion
to Strike
Wei
moves to strike parts of Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff was not
allowed to add additional allegations or causes of action after the Court
sustained the demurrer filed by Zhou and the LLC defendants. Because this
portion is discussed above in connection with Wei’s demurrer and rejected, the
motion to strike is moot on this ground. 
Wei
also moves to strike Paragraphs 65-68, which alleged that she improperly
represented on her divorce petition that she owned an interest in the Alice and
Broadway Properties. Wei contends that these allegations are protected by the
litigation privilege (Civil Code § 47). 
The
litigation privilege is absolute, which means it applies regardless of the
existence of malice or intent to harm. (Abraham v. Lancaster Community
Hospital (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 796, 810.) In the landmark case of Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212, the California Supreme Court
formulated the rule as follows: “[T]he privilege applies to any communication
(1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the action.”
Here,
Wei allegedly made certain representations about her interests in the Alice
Property and the Broadway Property in connection with her divorce proceedings
as part of her statutorily mandated disclosures. These representations clearly
meet the Silberg test and are privileged. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the representations fall within the exception
set forth in Civil Code section 47(b)(1), which states: 
 
An allegation or averment contained in
any pleading or affidavit filed in an action for marital dissolution or legal
separation made of or concerning a person by or against whom no affirmative
relief is prayed in the action shall not be a privileged publication or
broadcast as to the person making the allegation or averment within the meaning
of this section unless the pleading is verified or affidavit sworn to, and is
made without malice, by one having reasonable and probable cause for believing
the truth of the allegation or averment and unless the allegation or averment
is material and relevant to the issues in the action.
 
This statutory exception is
inapplicable because Wei’s representations were not “made of or concerning” Plaintiff.

Accordingly, Wei’s motion to strike
Paragraphs 65 through 68 is GRANTED. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Wei’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20
days’ leave to amend as to the Third Cause of Action and OVERRULED as to the
First, Second, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action. 
Wei’s motion to strike is GRANTED in
part as to Paragraphs 65 through 68. 
Zhou, 161 Alice LLC, and 9416
Broadway’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 2nd day of November
2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 