  Case Number:  21STCV12444    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ENCINO NEWCASTLE HOMEOWNERS, Plaintiff(s), vs. DEL SOL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 21STCV12444 (R/T 24STCV15463) Hearing Date: September 5, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Encino Newcastle Homeowner’s Association (“Encino”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Del Sol Property Management, Inc. (“Del Sol”), Lara Sinitsin (“Sinitsin”), and Does 1 through 100 for, alleging that Encino hired Del Sol, owned and operated by Sinitsin, as its property manager in January 2010. Encino alleges that defendants used their position to siphon money from Encino, convert its property, enter improper contracts and agreements, and have refused to return Encino’s books and records. The FAC sets forth eight causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Accounting; (5) Conversion and Theft; (6) Fraud; (7) Specific Performance; and (8) Declaratory Relief.¿ Defendants Del Sol and Sinitsin filed a cross-complaint against Encino, Kourosh Yaghoobian (“Yaghoobian”), Giv Bastanielahabadi, and Allen Tabibi (“Tabibi”) for breach of written contract and inducing breach of contract, alleging that these cross-defendants intended to take over The Board through unlawful means, and by making false allegations that Del Sol and Sinitsin were stealing money from Encino.¿¿ On June 24, 2024, plaintiff/cross-defendant Encino and cross-defendants Yaghoobian and Tabibi (collectively, “Movants”) move for terminating sanctions against defendants/cross-complainants Del Sol and Sinitsin (collectively, “Respondents”) on the grounds of spoliation of material evidence. In the alternative, Movants request issue/evidentiary sanctions, and the addition of monetary sanctions. On August 22, 2024, Respondents filed their opposition disputing Movants characterization of the facts. On August 28, 2024, Movants filed a reply.  II.  LEGAL STANDARD “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.) “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.¿ But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].) “Discovery sanctions must be tailored in order to remedy the offending party's discovery abuse, should not give the aggrieved party more than what it is entitled to, and should not be used to punish the offending party.” (Karlsson v. Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1217.)¿ “Although the court has discretion in choosing a sanction, this discretion must be exercised in a manner consistent with the basic purposes of such sanctions, e.g., to compel disclosure of discoverable information.”¿(Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1193 (citation omitted).)¿“Furthermore, the sanction chosen should not provide a windfall to the other party, by putting the prevailing party in a better position than if he or she had obtained the discovery sought and it had been favorable.”¿(Ibid. (citations omitted).)  III.  DISCUSSION A terminating sanction is an extreme remedy; it is only justified where a violation is preceded by a history of abuse and less severe sanctions would fail to produce compliance.¿(Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) A movant seeking discovery sanctions based on the alleged spoliation of evidence proceeds by showing a prima facie case that the respondent destroyed evidence which had a substantial probability to establish an element of the movant’s defense.¿(Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1226 (Williams).¿The burden then shifts to the respondent to show otherwise. (Ibid.) Here, Movants argue that Del Sol destroyed evidence and failed to take steps to preserve data in this matter after being placed on notice of anticipated litigation. Movants contend Sinitsin, Del Sol’s Person Most Qualified, testified that she sent Movants’ documents from the year 2017 for shredding as a result of nonpayment from Movants, and that those documents were highly relevant to the Movants’ claims. Movants contend Sinitsin’s testimony that she did not know the Association would be requesting those documents at the time of the shredding is disingenuous, because Sinitsin received the Movants’ records request in June 2020, and Del Sol had a policy to preserve records for three years and shred documents every year.  In opposition, Respondents argue Del Sol did not violate any of its discovery obligations. Respondents argue that despite Sinitsin oferring to allow an inspection free of charge, Yaghoobian terminated Del Sol’s contract effective July 23, 2020. Respondents dispute Movants’ claim that Del Sol was “on notice” that the records had to be preserved. After the contract termination, Yaghoobian never followed up with Sinitsin about the inspection, and told Sinitsin that he no longer wanted the records. Respondents argue Yaghoobian never requested Del Sol keep the invoices for future litigation, nor did he ever advise Del Sol to expect future litigation. Respondents contend that after the company’s services were terminated, Del Sol had no reason to believe Encino would sue. Thus, by the time Encino sued Del Sol in April 2021, Del Sol had already shredded all records older than 2019 for all clients in the regular course of its business, which included Movants’ records. In reply, Movants argue that Respondents incorrectly claim Yaghoobian, as opposed to Encino, sought access to the records. Movants reassert that Respondents knew of impending litigation. “A terminating sanction is appropriate in the first instance without a violation of prior court orders in egregious cases of intentional spoliation of evidence.”¿(Williams v. Russ¿(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223.)¿“Spoliation of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for another's use in pending or future litigation.”¿(Ibid.)¿Here, the Court has reviewed the evidence proffered by both parties and finds insufficient evidence that Respondents engaged in any intentional spoliation of evidence. Just because there was a request to inspect records in May 2020, regardless of whether it be by Yaghoobian or by Encino, is not the same as providing a letter of preservation, nor is it otherwise equivalent to placing Respondents on notice that specific records must be preserved for future litigation. Further, Movants contention that Del Sol itself threatened litigation is not the same as Movants providing that they themselves would move for future litigation. There is no evidence that Movants unequivocally informed Respondents of Movants’ anticipated lawsuit, prior to the actual act of shredding pursuant to Del Sol’s regular course of business, to have placed Respondents on notice that preservation was necessary.  IV. CONCLUSION Movants’ motion for termination sanctions, or in the alternative evidentiary and issue sanctions, is DENIED. The Court declines to award monetary sanctions to either party.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 4, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 