 Case Number:  21STCV03475    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV03475




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Steuber Corporation and Patrick
  Fink 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On January 28, 2021, Plaintiff Christina
Stever (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Steuber Corporation,
Alta Service, Patrick Fink, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a
motor vehicle accident. 
 
            Defendants
Steuber Corporation and Patrick Fink (Defendants) move to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Cindy Chapman states that she has made numerous
attempts to reschedule Plaintiff’s deposition, but that Plaintiff has been
unresponsive. (Chapman Decl. ¶ 5–7.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement
has been satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants first noticed Plaintiff’s deposition on February 21, 2023
set for May 2, 2023. (Chapman Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff canceled on April
27, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) On July 14, 2023, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition set for August 9, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff immediately notified
Defendants she was unavailable on that date. Despite Defendants’ attempts to
reschedule a mutually agreeable date, Plaintiff has been unresponsive. (Id. ¶
5–6.) No objections have been served. The Court therefore grants the motion to
compel.
 
Defendants seek $418.65 in monetary sanctions representing a $119
hourly rate and two hours to prepare this motion, one hour to appear at the
hearing, and the $61.65 filing fee. However, in light of the type of motion,
the fact no opposition was filed, and that Defendants can appear remotely, the
Court awards $229.65 (2 hours of attorney time and the $60 filing fee.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Steuber Corporation and Patrick Fink’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall appear for
deposition within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff Christina Stever[1] is
ordered to pay $229.65 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendants within
30 days. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


