 Case Number:  22STCV09483    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09483




MOTIONS:  


Requests
  for Admission, Set One Deemed Admitted  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Long Beach Public Transportation
  Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Long Beach Public
Transportation Company (Defendant) moves to have Request for Admissions, Set
One Deemed Admitted. Defendant asserts that on September 28, 2022, it served
Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff Juana Sandoval (Plaintiff).
(Sullivan Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Extensions to respond were granted until January
10, 2023, when Defendant requested responses without objections. (Id. ¶
4.) On February 3, 2023, Plaintiff served unverified responses. (Id. ¶
5, Exh. C.) Since then, no verification has been sent. Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to this motion, but a Non-Opposition Declaration. In it, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that he served verified responses to Requests for Admissions,
Set One, on October 30, 2023. (Smith Decl. ¶ 3.) He also declares the responses
are in substantial compliance with section 2033.330. (Id. ¶ 4.) Defendant has
not filed a reply and does not appear to dispute this assertion. Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion as moot.  
 
            Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record for $1,250. This amount represents an
hourly rate of $250 for two hours drafting the motion, two hours drafting a
reply, and one hour to appear at the hearing. Given the type of motion and the
fact counsel can appear remotely at the hearing, the Court finds this amount is
excessive and reduces it to $500 (2 hours of attorney time).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to have Request for Admissions, Set
One Deemed Admitted, is DENIED as moot.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record in the reduced amount of $500. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of
this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 