  Case Number:  20STCV40634    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV40634




MOTIONS:  


Application
  for Determination of Good Faith of Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant Veronica Soto




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Cross-Defendant Veronica Soto (Soto) moves for a determination that a settlement
has been entered in good faith. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
An
unopposed motion for determination of good faith of settlement need not contain
a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors by declaration
or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting forth the grounds of good
faith and a declaration containing a brief background of the case is
sufficient.  (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cross-Defendant Veronica Soto has entered into a settlement with Cross-Complainants
Natalie Bebejian and Shant Bebejian for $10,000 in exchange for a full release
of all the claims of Cross-Complainants against Soto resulting from the motor
vehicle accident on October 31, 2019. 
 
This case arises out of a three-vehicle accident. (Gonter Decl. ¶ 2.) On
October 31, 2019, Plaintiff Douglas Means was traveling eastbound on Devonshire
Street in Northridge, California. Soto was driving westbound on Devonshire
Street. Defendant and Cross-Complainant Natalie Bebejian was traveling
northbound on Woodley Avenue. At the intersection of Woodley Avenue and
Devonshire Street, Cross-Complainant alleges the traffic signal changed from
green to black, which then caused a collision between the three cars. Soto and
Plaintiff Means contend they entered the intersection on a green light. (Id.
¶ 6–7.) Natalie Bebejian and Shant Bebejian filed a cross complaint on January
22, 2021 against Douglas Means, Veronica Soto, City of Los Angeles, and Does 1
to 100. 
 
Soto contends the amount of the settlement is fair given the lack of
evidence that Soto was at fault. $10,000 will be paid by Soto’s insurance
company. Natalie Bebejian demonstrated she paid $4,497 in medical bills. (Id.
¶ 12.) Cross-Complainant Shant Bebejian, Natalie’s husband, alleged loss of
consortium due to the accident but did receive medical or psychological care.
He alleges his wife’s injuries caused some strain of their marriage. (Id.)
Soto has paid this settlement in lieu of prolonging litigation and carried the
statutory minimum liability coverage. Therefore, the settlement appears to be a
rough approximate of Soto’s liability and Cross-Complainant’s recovery. Additionally,
the settlement arose out of private mediation between the drivers. As a result,
it does not appear there was collusion or fraud to injure non-settling
defendants. As the settlement agreement notes, the remaining claim on the
cross-complaint is against City of Los Angeles. 
 
Therefore, Soto has satisfied her burden that the settlement was
entered in good faith. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the application for determination of good faith settlement
is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendant Veronica Soto shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 