 Case Number:  21STCV26613    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV26613




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Adrien Aaron Garcia




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Juan Carlos Olvera and American Way Management, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 20, 2021, Plaintiff Adrien Aaron Garcia (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Juan Carlos Olvera, American Way Management, Inc.,
and Does 1 to 20 for negligence and negligent entrustment resulting from a
motor vehicle accident. On September 13, 2021, Defendants Juan Carlos Olvera
and American Way Management, Inc. (Defendants) filed an answer, and then an
amended answer on September 23, 2021. On February 28, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to Defendants’ first, second,
and third affirmative defenses, resolving the issue of liability in Plaintiff’s
favor. 
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to
file a first amended complaint in order to assert a claim for punitive damages.

 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Punitive
Damages
 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must
allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code
section 3294.  (College Hosp., Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has
been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with
knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and
deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop
Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149,
1155.) 
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is
not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall
Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)
Moreover, conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864,
872.) 
 
In the context of driving under the influence, the California Supreme
Court has required a showing that the defendant “was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 895-96.) Thus, merely alleging one was driving while intoxicated is
insufficient. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89.) “Allegations
of intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment or the
running of stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action for punitive
damages. On the other hand, if the facts show that the defendant intentionally
drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded with
pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded residential area
where children were playing in the street, a legitimate inference of actual
malice perhaps could arise. … Under these circumstances, it reasonably might be
said that the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner
that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial
certainty of injury to others.” (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at 90
[citations omitted].)
 
In addition, “[t]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation
is based upon its own fault.  It is not
imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) 
“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of
recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a
corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s
employees.  But the law does not impute
every employee’s malice to the corporation. 
Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among
corporate leaders:  the officers,
directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz
v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].) 
 
 Moreover, “[a]n employer shall
not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).)
 
Generally, “principal liability for punitive damages [does] not depend
on employees’ managerial level, but on the extent to which they exercise
substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine
corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563,
576–577, 88 Cal.Rptr.2d 19, 981 P.2d 944 (White ).) Thus, to establish
that an individual is a managing agent, a plaintiff seeking punitive damages
must show that “the employee exercised substantial discretionary authority over
significant aspects of a corporation's business.” (Id. at p. 577, 88
Cal.Rptr.2d 19, 981 P.2d 944.) In this context, “corporate policy” refers to “
‘formal policies that affect a substantial portion of the company and that are
of the type likely to come to the attention of corporate leadership.’ ” (Roby
v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 715, 101 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 219 P.3d
749; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167–168, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d
435 [“ ‘corporate policy’ is the general principles which guide a corporation,
or rules intended to be followed consistently over time in corporate
operations,” and thus “[a] ‘managing agent’ is one with substantial authority
over decisions that set these general principles and rules”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues that evidence received in discovery warrants a claim
for punitive damages. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that Defendant American
Way Management, Inc. (AWM) does not set limits as to the number of hours their
drivers would work. (Motion at p. 2.) Plaintiff argues that AWM’s Person Most
Knowledgeable (“PMK”) testified that fatigue could be a common cause of
collisions, that he did not recall any meeting to educate employees about the
dangers of fatigued driving, or that the State of California requires certain
vehicle operators to maintain hour logs. (Motion at pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff further
argues that the driver, Defendant Olvera, testified that a possible cause of
the collision at issue was that he was overworked and tired, and that he and
other employees knew that the subject vehicle had mechanical defects. (Motion
at pp. 3-4.)
 
As an initial matter, the proposed amended complaint does not allege a
corporate employee who has substantial discretionary authority over decisions
that ultimately determine corporate policy.
 
Moreover, AMW’s PMK testified that he did not “believe that drivers of
American Way, as the business manager, should operate their vehicles while
tired,” but did agree that fatigue could be a “common cause of collisions.”
(Chanchikyan Dec., Ex. 1 at 87:16-22.) Similar to Dawes, Plaintiff
alleges an awareness of possible dangerous consequences of certain conduct, but
does not allege facts with specificity to support a conclusion of either
conduct so vile, base, or contemptible as to have the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime, and that a corporate managing agent acted
with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests
and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend his complaint is denied.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 