 Case Number:  23STCV02632    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02632




MOTIONS:  


Requests
  for Admission, Set One Deemed Admitted  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants RH Centennial Apartments LLC and
  RHET Apartments LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Maria de Los Angeles Erazo Benitez 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants RH Centennial
Apartments LLC and RHET Apartments LLC (Defendants) move to have Requests for
Admissions, Set One Deemed Admitted. Defendants assert that on March 20, 2023, they
served Requests for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff Maria Erazo Benitez (Plaintiff).
(Aquino Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Extensions to respond were granted until May 19,
2023. (Id. ¶ 9–11.) No further extensions were requested and as of the filing
of this motion, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 12.) Defendants also seek
monetary sanctions.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff states she
is incapacitated and cannot respond to any discovery requests until a guardian
ad litem is appointed. Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on October 24, 2023,
an Application and Order For Appointment of Guardian ad litem was filed.
(Hoffman Decl. ¶ 13.) In reply, Defendants argue they were not informed of
Plaintiff’s purported incompetency until October 24, 2023. (Shaham Decl. ¶
11–12.) Nevertheless, given this new information, Defendants request the Court
continue the present motion and their motion to compel responses to form
interrogatories (set for December 6, 2023) to January 18, 2024. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to have Request for Admissions, Set
One Deemed Admitted and Defendants’ Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, are
both continued to January 18, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The hearing on the motion to compel responses to form interrogatories
set for December 6, 2023 is advanced and vacated, and continued to January 18,
2024.
 
Defendants
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 