 Case Number:  24STCV23668    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  82 Refrigerator Manufacturers, LLC                          Case No. 24STCV23668
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
November 7, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                                  Premier Culinary Solutions, Inc.                                   Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
                                     
[Tentative] Order Denying Application for Writ
of Attachment
 
            Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Refrigerator Manufacturers, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
moves for a writ of attachment against Defendant and Cross-Complainant Premier
Culinary Solutions, Inc. (“Defendant”) in the amount of $205,092.  Among other things, Plaintiff must establish
probable validity of the claim.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 484.090.)  “A claim has ‘probable
validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a
judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)  “In contested
applications, the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of
the respective parties and make a determination of¿the probable outcome of the
litigation.”¿  (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 76, 80.)  
 
The application is based on Plaintiff’s cause of action for
breach of contract.  To establish a
claim for breach of contract or breach of guaranty, a plaintiff must prove: (1)
the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach of the contract; and (4) damages
incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  
 
In or around 2019,
Defendant was awarded a contract by Stronghold Engineer for equipment
procurement and installation of a foodservice kitchen at the Veterans
Administration Dietetics Medical Building in Los Angeles (“VA Project”).  (Roczey Decl. ¶ 4.)  Defendant subcontracted with Plaintiff to
install a walk-in freezer and remote refrigeration system at the VA Project (the
“Refrigeration Build Project”).  (Bedi
Decl. ¶ 2.)  The contract between
Plaintiff and Defendant (hereafter, the “Contract”) is evidenced by written
quotes provided by Plaintiff, which include standard terms and conditions, as
well as two purchase orders signed by Defendant’s president in the amounts of
$385,765 and $347,000.  (Bedi Decl. ¶ 3,
Exh. A, B; Roczey Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff’s
“Standard Terms and Conditions,” as stated on the written quotes, include the
following:
 
Terms and Conditions: All pricing is
FOB Cerritos, California.  Normal terms
require a 50% deposit payable with the return of approved submittal drawings
and prior to fabrication.  Balance is due
upon delivery or 30 days from ship date for customers with approved credit and
in good standing.
 
….[¶]
 
RMI Warranty: One Year Limited
Warranty – All Refrigerator Manufacturers, LLC 
(RMI) products are guaranteed to be free from defects in materials
and/or workmanship.  RMI will replace or
repair the defective part without charge, exclusive of freight or labor, for a
period of one year from date of shipment…. 
 
(Roczey Decl. Exh.
A.)  
 
Plaintiff submits
evidence that it partially performed the Contract when it “furnished labor,
services, equipment, and materials used and intended to be used in the work of
improvement on the Property, including the installation of a walk-in
refrigerator and freezer.”  (Bedi Decl. ¶
7.)  Plaintiff acknowledges that Defendant
partially performed its obligations when it paid $527,673 out of the total
$732,765 Contract price.  (Id. ¶¶ 6-8
and Exh. G.)  Plaintiff contends that
Defendant presently owes the balance of $205,092.  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendant contends
that Plaintiff did not complete performance in a timely manner and materially breached
the Contract, excusing the remainder of Defendant’s performance.  (Oppo. 8-9.) 
“When
a party’s failure to perform a contractual obligation constitutes a material
breach of the contract, the other party may be discharged from its duty to
perform under the contract.” (Brown v. Grimes (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 265, 277.)  “Normally the
question of whether a breach of an obligation is a material breach, so as to
excuse performance by the other party, is a question of fact.”  (Ibid.)  Whether a partial breach of a contract is
material depends on “the importance or seriousness thereof and the probability
of the injured party getting substantial performance,” among other
factors.  (Id. at 278.)   
 
Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiff failed to complete
installation in a timely manner and that the refrigeration system did not
function correctly. “Some of the issues that existed included frozen
refrigeration lines … and the roof allowing water to seep into the building.”  (Roczey Decl. ¶ 8.)  There were issues concerning “pitch pockets” and
foam insulation installed by Plaintiff. 
(Id. ¶ 10.)  In addition, Plaintiff
did not honor the one-year warranty in the written quotes.  (Id. ¶¶ 11-16.)  In an email to Defendant dated August 19,
2022, and a letter dated February 22, 2022, Tony Bedi, Plaintiff’s chief
executive officer, acknowledged delays on refrigeration projects, including
Defendant’s project, as a result of “lack of foam,” “lack of man power,” and
“lack of materials.”  (Id. ¶ 17,
Exh. D.)  As shown in an email from Bedi,
Plaintiff continued to work on completing the Refrigeration Build Project until
around October 31, 2023.  (Id. ¶
19.i and Exh. L.)  Defendant submits
evidence that Plaintiff’s failure to timely complete the installation or honor
the warranty caused the general contractor, Stronghold Engineer, to withhold
more than $200,000 from Defendant related to the unfinished Refrigeration Build
Project.  (Id. ¶ 21-22.)  Defendant also incurred additional expenses
hiring other subcontractors to complete parts of the Refrigeration Build Project.  (Id. ¶¶ 10-14.)  This evidence sufficiently shows, for purposes of pre-judgment writ of attachment, that Plaintiff’s
breach was serious, and that Defendant did not obtain substantial performance
from Plaintiff.  Defendant has submitted sufficient evidence that Plaintiff
materially breached the Contract such that Defendant’s obligation to pay the
remaining $205,092 has been excused.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court finds that Plaintiff has
not established probable validity of the claim. 
Therefore, the application for writ of attachment is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of service with the court.  
 