  Case Number:  24STCV13470    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  82 Texmark
Land, Inc. v. Eloges, Inc., et al.
Case No. 24STCV13470
[Tentative] Order Granting Application for
Writ of Attachment
 
            Plaintiff Texmark Land, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) moves for a writ of attachment
against Defendant Eloges, Inc. (“Defendant”) in the amount of $48,953.70.  Plaintiff has satisfied all of the statutory
requirements.  In particular, Plaintiff
has established probable validity of its claim. 
The application is based on
Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract.  To establish a claim for breach of
contract or breach of guaranty, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the existence of a
contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s
breach of the contract; and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of
the breach.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  
 
Plaintiff sells
fabrics throughout California, and Defendant is a clothing manufacturing
company located in Los Angeles.  (Soo Mi
Ko Decl. ¶¶ 2, 6.)  From October 2021 to
August 2022, Plaintiff sold fabrics to Defendant through a series of purchase
orders and invoices.  Plaintiff has made
delivery of the goods and thereby performed its obligations under the purchase
orders.  Defendant made a partial payment
of $1,555.80 for one of the invoices. 
However, Defendant has failed to timely pay the remaining balance due of
$43,853.70 pursuant to the terms of the purchase orders.  (Id. ¶¶ 1-15, Exh. 1-13.)  Plaintiff is also entitled to attorney’s fees
and costs in an enforcement action pursuant to the terms of the purchase
orders.  (Id. Exh. 1-13.)  Plaintiff reasonably estimates that it has or
will incur at least $5,000 in attorney’s fees and $100 in costs in this
action.  (Application ¶ 8.)  
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues that 12 of the 13 invoices are defective because they are not
consistent with the orders.  In
particular, Defendant ordered specific lengths of fabric, and Defendant was
invoiced for slightly different lengths of fabric.  This does not defeat Plaintiff’s claim for
several reasons.  As an initial matter,
there is a logical explanation for this discrepancy.  A supplier might deliver slightly more fabric
because it would be a waste to remove the small amount of excess fabric from
the bolt.  Similarly, a supplier might
deliver slightly less fabric because that is all there is on the bolt, and a
buyer cannot use a few yards of non-contiguous fabric.  Regardless of the reason, however, Defendant’s
representative accepted the deliveries and signed the packing lists, which is
sufficient to form a contract.  Tellingly,
Chanmy Gim never denies that Defendant accepted these orders, thereby agreeing
to pay for them.  Nor is there any record
that Defendant complained about the discrepancy or sought to return the excess
fabric.  
 
            Defendant also argues that 5 of the
13 invoices are dated “after the 2 year statute of limitations for oral
contract since there is no written agreement.” 
The court is not persuaded this necessarily is an oral contract.  For each transaction, there is a sales order
signed by Defendant’s representative; there is a packing list signed by
Defendant’s representative; and there is an invoice.  That is sufficient to establish that this
case is probably governed by the four-year statute of limitations for written
contracts.  
 
Defendant argues
that the claim is not fixed or readily ascertainable.  “[A]n attachment will lie upon a cause of
action for damages for a breach of contract where the damages are readily
ascertainable by reference to the contract and the basis of the computation of
damages appears to be reasonable and definite.” 
(CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004)
115 Cal.App. 4th 537, 541.)  Plaintiff
satisfies this standard.  Simply, the
amount of damages can be calculated by reviewing the contracts at issue,
specifically, the sales order that shows the price per yard and the packing
slip that shows the amount of yards delivered. 

 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff is attempting to hold the individual defendants liable under an
alter ego theory without a sufficient basis to do so.  The writ of attachment is against Eloges
Inc., not the individual defendants. 
Therefore, this argument is not relevant.
 
Finally, Defendant
argues that an attachment order would cause irreparable harm to Defendants and
that attachment is not necessary to protect Plaintiff’s interests.  These arguments are not persuasive to the
court.  
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as
follows:
 
1.         The
court grants Plaintiff’s application for a writ of attachment in the amount of $48,953.70.
 
2.         The
court orders Plaintiff to post an undertaking of $10,000.
 
3.         Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 