..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 19STCV22431
Case Name: Shawn Michael Dolmage v. Does 1 through 100
Moving Party: Defendants - Tarkett Sports Canada Inc. and FieldTurf USA, Inc.
Opposing Party: Plaintiff - Shawn Michael Dolmage (represented by Robin Dolmage, as Guardian ad litem of Dash Dolmage and Successor-in-Interest of Decedent)
Trial Date: October 22, 2024
Proof of Service: OK

Proceeding: Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication

Background:
This action arises from the employment of Shawn Michael Dolmage (Decedent) by Beyond the Turf, Inc. (Beyond the Turf) as a synthetic turf installer. The Decedent worked installing synthetic turf fields throughout Los Angeles County. The Complaint alleges that throughout Decedent's employment with Beyond the Turf, he worked with and was exposed to chemicals that were manufactured and distributed by Doe Defendants 1-100, including silica sand, crumb rubber, butadiene rubber, and other chemicals. As a result of this exposure, the Decedent allegedly sustained injuries, including hypersensitivity pneumonitis in January 2018, eventually resulting in his death on July 8, 2022.

Legal Standard:
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.

Request for Judicial Notice:
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following:
- Plaintiff's Exhibit D: A true and correct copy of the Certificate of Death for Shawn Michael Dolmage, with accompanying Physician/Coroner's Amendment.
- Defendants' Exhibits 1, 4, 5, and 8: A true and correct copy of the Orange County Sheriff-Coroner, Autopsy Report, for Decedent: Dolmage, Shawn Michael, Case Number 22-04048-CE, dated September 7, 2022; a true and correct copy of the OC Crime Lab, Orange County Sheriff-Coroner Department, Toxicological Examination Report, for Deceased: Dolmage, Shawn Michael, Coroner Case Number: 22-04048CE, dated August 23, 2022; and a true and correct copy of the Court's Ruling on Defendants' Demurrer with Motion To Strike, dated August 14, 2023.
The court grants Plaintiff's request for judicial notice of Exhibit D and Defendants' request for judicial notice of Exhibits 1, 4, 5, and 8.

Evidentiary Objections:
Defendants' objections Nos. 1 to 6: The court agrees that Exhibit A is not properly authenticated by the attorney who took the deposition or by the court reporter's signed certification page. However, the court will not exclude Plaintiff from relying on the same deposition testimony to oppose the Motion.

Defendants' objections Nos. 7 to 10:
A party cannot use its own discovery responses to oppose a motion for summary judgment.

Defendants' objections Nos. 11 to 12:
Evid. Code ยง 1281 makes death certificates admissible and exempt from the hearsay rule.

Discussion:
The court finds that there is a triable issue of fact as to whether pulmonary silicosis played a significant factor in the Decedent's death.

Whether Decedent's Silicosis was a "Substantial Factor" in Causing His Death:
The deposition testimony of Dr. Anthony Juguilon contained conflicting testimony: he refused to apportion the cause of death but he also asserted that the alcohol intoxication was by itself sufficient to cause the Decedent's death, with or without pulmonary silicosis.

Whether Defendants Are Entitled to Summary Adjudication:
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails as a matter of law to state a cause of action for Negligence, Strict Liability - Failure to Warn, Strict Liability - Design Defect, Fraudulent Concealment, and Breach of Implied Warranties. However, the court finds that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact as to whether pulmonary silicosis played a significant factor in the Decedent's death.

Conclusion:
For the reasons set forth above, the Court denies Defendants' motion for summary judgment, alternatively for summary adjudication.
```

Significant Statements:

* "The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute."
* "A duty to speak may arise in four ways: it may be directly imposed by statute or other prescriptive law; it may be voluntarily assumed by contractual undertaking; it may arise as an incident of a relationship between the defendant and the plaintiff; and it may arise as a result of other conduct by the defendant that makes it wrongful for him to remain silent."
* "There can be no liability for failure to warn where the instructions or warnings sufficiently alert the user to the possibility of danger."
