 Case Number:  24STCV02932    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, September 26, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV02932
CASE NAME:                        Sanjay Kalra v. Apro, LLC, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Apro, LLC; CF United
LLC; and Joseph Juliano
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Sanjay Kalra
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel
Arbitration
OPPOSITION:                        3 September 2024
REPLY:                                  9
September 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is
denied without prejudice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On February 5, 2024, Sanjay Kalra (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against APRO, LLC; d/b/a Unified Pacific, CF United LLC; Joseph Juliana; and
Does 1 to 10. The Complaint alleges the following twelve causes of action: 
1)    
Whistleblower
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5;
2)    
Discrimination
Based on National Origin/Ancestry/Race and Age [Gov. Code § 12940(a)];
3)    
Harassment
Based on National Origin/Ancestry/Race and Age – Hostile Work Environment [Cal.
Gov. Code §§ 12923, 12940(j)]; 
4)    
Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA [Gov. Code § 12940(m)(2)];
5)    
Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation [Gov. Code § 12940(k)];
6)    
Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy;
7)    
Failure
to Provide Meal and Rest Periods (Labor Code §§ 226.7, 512, 8 CCR § 11040);
8)    
Nonpayment
of Overtime (Violation of Labor Code §§ 510, 1194, 8 CCR § 11040);
9)    
Record
Keeping Violations (Labor Code §§ 226, 1174(d), 1174.5, 1175);
10) Nonpayment of Wages (Labor Code §§ 201,
203, 204, 207, 215, 218, 218.5, 218.6);
11) Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.); and
12) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
Defendants APRO,
LLC, CF United LLC, and
Joseph Juliano (hereinafter “Defendants”) move for an order to compel Plaintiff
to arbitrate his claims. Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is now before
the court. 
 
motion to
compel arbitration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes.¿ To further that policy, Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.¿ Those statutory
exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds
exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a
third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or
legal¿issues.”¿ (CCP, § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)¿ Similarly, public policy under federal law
favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter
of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an equal
footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms.¿ (AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
In deciding a motion or petition
to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties and then determine whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.¿(Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)¿ The opposing party has the
burden to establish any defense to enforcement.¿ (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA,
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner ... bears the burden
of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing
party, plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)¿ 
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections[1]: 
 
1)     The
objections to the Declaration of Garren Hines are overruled as Mr. Hines states
he has personal knowledge of Exhibits 1 and 2 because they were obtained from
Defendants. (Hines Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants also fail to show that Mr. Hines
lacks personal knowledge about Plaintiff’s unfamiliarity with computers and/or
that Plaintiff’s son was helpful in assisting Plaintiff in accessing his email,
phone, or computer. (Id., ¶ 5.) 
 
2)     The
objections to the Declaration of Sahil Kalra are overruled as the court does
not find that the statements are irrelevant. Moreover, “the very fact in
controversy is whether certain things were said or done ... the words or acts
are admissible not as hearsay [,] but as original evidence[.]” (People v.
Smith (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 986, 1003.) At issue here is whether Plaintiff
accessed the computer and used his username and password to electronically sign
the onboarding document on Defendant’s portal or if the electronic signature
can be attributed to someone else. Therefore, Sahil can testify to what he
observed. 
 
3)     The
objections to the Declaration of Sanjay Kalra are similarly overruled as the
statements are not irrelevant, Sanjay has personal knowledge of the facts, and
he can attest to what he observed. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections: 
 
1)     Objection
No. 1 is sustained as Judy Chu fails to cite facts
to show she has personal knowledge that after January 16, 2019, Defendants sent
instructions to Plaintiff on how to electronically sign and submit the
onboarding documents and that Plaintiff did submit such documents after January
16, 2019. 
 
2)     Objection
No. 2 is sustained as Judy Chu only has personal
knowledge that the arbitration agreement was electronically signed on January
16, 2019, by someone with Plaintiff’s unique username and password and not that
it was Plaintiff who electronically signed the agreement. 
 
3)     Objection
No. 3 is overruled as the contents of the
arbitration agreement are not in dispute. 
 
4)     Objection
No. 4 is overruled as Judy Chu states she reviewed
the inbox and confirmed there was no opt-out agreement from Plaintiff and
Plaintiff presents no evidence to refute this assertion. 
 
5)     Objections
Nos. 5 & 7 are sustained as Judy Chu has personal
knowledge that the I-9 form and Clerk’s Affidavit were electronically signed
but not that it was Plaintiff who signed it rather than another person who knew
Plaintiff’s unique username and password. 
 
6)     Objections
Nos. 6 & 8 are irrelevant and not material
to the adjudication of this Motion and the court declines to rule on the
objection. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
In
a motion to compel arbitration, “[t]he petitioner bears the burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.
No jury trial is available for a petition to compel arbitration.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972 [citations
omitted].)¿ 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff was hired as a sales
associate on or about January 16, 2019, and as part of the onboarding process
Plaintiff electronically signed an arbitration agreement (the “Agreement”).
(Chu Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A; Raynor Amed. Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) Plaintiff disputes this.
(Sanjay Kalra Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
Plaintiff states that he is 68 years old and is disabled due
to injuries in his shoulder and hands. (Sanjay Kalra Decl., ¶ 3.) Due to his
disabilities, Plaintiff is not good with computers.  He is limited in his computer knowledge, use,
and/or typing. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts that his son, Sahil Kalra (age
26), completed Plaintiff’s online application for the sales associate position
on January 3, 2019. (Id., ¶ 4.) The job application was completed at
their home using his son’s laptop with the information provided by Plaintiff. (Id.)
Plaintiff asserts he did not personally enter a username and password when
applying, but it was his son who entered the information on behalf of
Plaintiff. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s son,
Sahil, confirms that he helped his father complete the online job application
using Defendants’ TalentReef online portal. (Sahil Kalra Decl., ¶ 3.) Sahil
states he typed a username and typed a password created by his father. (Id.,
¶ 4.) Sahil then reviewed the application with his father. (Id., ¶ 5.)
Sahil states that on January 16, 2019, when the agreement and other onboarding
documents were signed, he was living and attending college in San Diego and did
not complete the onboarding documents on behalf of his father. (Id., ¶
6.) 
 
On January 16, 2019,
when the onboarding documents were completed, Plaintiff physically went to
Defendant’s store to be interviewed by Willie Green, the Defendants’ District
Manager. (Sanjay Decl., ¶ 6.) At the interview, Plaintiff states Mr. Green told
him he needed to complete some paperwork for the job on the store’s computer, but
he explained to Mr. Green that due to his age, disability, and limited
knowledge and use of computers, he did not use computers. (Id., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff asserts that throughout the interview, Mr. Green had his laptop out,
asked Plaintiff questions, and entered the information on his laptop, including
Plaintiff’s emergency contact information. (Id., ¶ 8.) At the end of the
interview, Mr. Green told Plaintiff he was hired for the sales associate
position. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff further
asserts that at no time did Mr. Green discuss an arbitration agreement or ask Plaintiff
to review any information on a computer, nor did Plaintiff verbally assent to
an arbitration agreement or authorize Mr. Green to sign the Agreement on his
behalf. (Sanjay Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff states that he has reviewed the
onboarding documents provided by Defendants and “can confirm I did not
electronically sign these documents.” (Id., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff asserts it
is his belief that Mr. Green himself completed all of Plaintiff’s onboarding
documents, including electronic signature. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts that
on January 16, 2019, he “did not use a computer, or other device, on January
16, 2019, to access and complete the onboarding documents.” (Id., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff asserts he “did not enter a username or password to access the
onboarding documents” and that “[i]f a username and password was needed to
complete the onboarding documents, I believe I provided them to Mr. Green to
enter.” (Id.)
 
The Amended
Declaration of Ian Raynor details Defendants’ use of the job application
portal, TalentReef, and its security procedures that require job candidates to
create a unique username and password to complete the application. (Amend.
Raynor Decl., ¶¶ 4-8.) Mr. Raynor states that no one can access a candidate’s
TalentReef portal without the candidate’s username and password and that the
candidate’s username and password are required to sign documents
electronically. (Id., ¶¶ 8, 9, 13.) Raynor asserts the Agreement was
part of the paperwork only provided to new hires. (Id.) 
 
Neither Mr. Raynor’s
Declaration nor the Declaration of Judy Chu, dispute Plaintiff’s declaration
that Mr. Green completed the onboarding documents and electronically signed the
documents using Plaintiff’s unique username and password, which Plaintiff provided,
and that Mr. Green never informed Plaintiff of the Agreement or that agreeing
to the Agreement was a condition of employment. Defendants fail to show that
Mr. Green could not have completed the onboarding documents on behalf of
Plaintiff. Defendants also do not offer the Declaration of Mr. Green to refute
Plaintiff’s assertion that he did not electronically sign the Agreement. 
 
As outlined in Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, Defendants bear the burden of showing that the electronic signature is
the act of Plaintiff and not Mr. Green. Civil Code § 1633.9 states:
 
(a) An electronic record or
electronic signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the
person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing
of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to
which the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.
 
(b) The effect of an
electronic record or electronic signature attributed to a person under
subdivision (a) is determined from the context and surrounding circumstances at
the time of its creation, execution, or adoption, including the parties'
agreement, if any, and otherwise as provided by law.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1633.9.) 
 
Because Plaintiff
declares that he did not sign the onboarding documents or use a computer, and
it is his belief that he provided the username and password to Mr. Green,
Defendants have failed to carry the burden of showing that the electronic
signature on the Agreement is attributable only to Plaintiff. Therefore,
Defendants fail to show that Plaintiff electronically signed the Agreement. 
 
Defendants also fail
to show Mr. Green explained the Agreement to Plaintiff and that Plaintiff
consented or knew about the Agreement's existence. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s continued employment constituted consent to the Agreement, but this
requires that Plaintiff have knowledge of the Agreement’s existence and that
consent to the Agreement was a job requirement. A signed arbitration agreement
is not necessary when “a party's acceptance may be implied in fact [citation]
or be effectuated by delegated consent [citation].” (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)

 
Here, Defendants
present no evidence to rebut Plaintiff’s assertion that he was not presented
with the Agreement.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff could not have impliedly consented to an agreement he did not know
existed. (See Sanjay Kalra Decl., ¶ 11 [“I did not enter a username or password
to access the onboarding documents.”].) Nor do Defendants argue or present
evidence that Plaintiff delegated the signing of the Agreement to Mr. Green.
Absent a showing that Plaintiff knew about the Agreement, there are no facts to
support the finding that Plaintiff impliedly consented to arbitration by
continuing to work for Defendants. 
 
Defendants’ motion is
denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is denied without prejudice. 


