  Case Number:  19STCV22431    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                         Monday, September 26,
2024
CASE NUMBER:                           19STCV22431
CASE NAME:                                 Shawn Michael
Dolmage v. Does 1 through 100 ¿
MOVING PARTY:                         Defendants
Tarkett Sports Canada Inc. and FieldTurf USA, Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:                    Plaintiff
Shawn
Michael Dolmage  
TRIAL DATE:                                
22 October 2024
PROOF OF
SERVICE:                 OK

                                                                                                                                                                                                   

PROCEEDING:                              Motion
for Summary Judgment, or Summary Adjudication in the Alternative 
OPPOSITION:                               16
August 2024
REPLY:                                             23
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                                 Defendants’ motion for summary judgment,
alternatively for summary adjudication of issues is denied.  Defendants
to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   

 
Background
 
This
action arises out of the employment of Shawn Michael Dolmage (the “Decedent”) by
Beyond the Turf, Inc. (“Beyond the Turf”) as a synthetic turf installer.  According to the Complaint, which was filed
June 27, 2019, the Decedent worked installing synthetic turf fields throughout
Los Angeles County.  The Complaint alleges
that throughout Decedent’s employment with Beyond the Turf, he worked with and
was exposed to chemicals that were manufactured and distributed by Doe
Defendants 1-100, including silica sand, crumb rubber, butadiene rubber, and
other chemicals. As a result of this exposure, the Decedent allegedly sustained
injuries, including hypersensitivity pneumonitis in January 2018, eventually
resulting in his death on July 8, 2022.  
 
On
March 1, 2023, Robin Dolmage, as Guardian ad litem of
Dash Dolmage and Successor-in-Interest of Decedent (hereinafter, “Plaintiff”) filed
the operative Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). The 4AC alleges the following eight
causes of action: 
1)   
Negligence—against all
Defendants;
2)   
Strict Liability – Failure
to Warn against all Defendants;
3)   
Strict Liability – Design
Defect against all Defendants; 
4)   
Fraudulent Concealment
against Defendant Tarkett, FieldTurf
USA, Inc.; 
5)   
Fraudulent Concealment
against Defendant Tarkett Sports Canada Inc. (formerly known as FieldTurf Inc.)
6)   
Fraudulent Concealment
against P.W. Gillibrand Co., Pioneer Sands LLC, RW Sidley, Romall
Industries, Target Technologies, The Quikcrete
Companies LLC, and Thompson Building Materials;
7)   
Fraudulent Concealment
against Defendants BAS, Recycling, Inc.; CRM Co. LLC; CRM of America, LLC;
Genan Sales & Logistics, Inc.; Liberty Tire Recycling LLC; and West Coast
Rubber Recycling; and
8)   
Breach of Implied Warranties
against all Defendants. 
 
On May 21, 2024, Tarkett Sports Canada Inc. and FieldTurf USA, Inc. (collectively
“Defendants”) filed a motion for summary judgment, alternatively for summary
adjudication of issues on Plaintiff’s 4AC. 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The court heard arguments on September 23,
2024, and continued the hearing to September 26, 2024.  After considering the arguments of counsel
and all the matters of record, the court now rules as follows.   
 
motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication
 
I.            Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with
a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”¿ (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.)
“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary adjudication may
be granted as to one or more causes of action within an action, or one or more
claims for damages. (CCP, § 437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant moving
for summary judgment bears two burdens: (1) the burden of production –
presenting admissible evidence, through material facts, sufficient to satisfy a
directed verdict standard; and (2) the burden of persuasion – the material
facts presented must persuade the court that the plaintiff cannot establish one
or more elements of a cause of action, or a complete defense vitiates the cause
of action. (CCP § 437c(p)(2);¿Aguilar,¿supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850-851.) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot
be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of
the claim.¿¿(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)¿¿Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or defense thereto.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“On ruling on a
motion for summary judgment, the court is to ‘liberally construe the evidence
in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.’” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital¿(2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.) On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.]” (Binder v. Aetna Life
Ins. Co.¿(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th¿832, 839.)¿ 
 
II.          Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c),
(d), and (h).)¿
 
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)   
Plaintiff’s
Exhibit D: A true and correct copy of the Certificate of Death for
Shawn Michael Dolmage, with accompanying Physician/Coroner’s Amendment. 
 
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of Exhibit D on grounds that it is an official record
of the County of Orange, CA.  (See People
v. Terry (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 432, 439 [“judicial notice may be taken of a
death certificate.”]; Ellenberger v. City of Oakland (1946) 76
Cal.App.2d 828, 835 [accord].)
 
In Bohrer
v. County of San Diego (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 155, the appellate court refused
to take judicial notice of the fact that a death certificate listed “suicide”
as the cause of death. “Absent a special statute, there is no authority for the
court to take judicial notice of a conclusion of suicide from a governmental
document to establish the cause of death [citation.]” (Id., at p. 164.) Similarly,
in Moon v. Guardian Postacute Services, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1005,
the court took judicial notice of a death certificate of Frances McMahon, which
listed her usual residence as Queens County, New York but noted that “contrary
to [defendant’s] position, this exhibit is not dispositive of McMahon's
residence.” (Id., at p. 1012, fn. 2.) 
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
Exhibit D but not for the truth of its contents. “Taking
judicial notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its
contents or accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin
v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage¿(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.) 
 
Defendants request judicial notice of the following:
1)    Exhibit 1: A true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s Fourth
Amended Complaint for Survival and Wrongful Death From Toxic Injuries, filed on
March 1, 2023. 
 
2)    Exhibit 4: A true and correct copy of the Orange County
Sheriff-Coroner, Autopsy Report, for Decedent: Dolmage, Shawn Michael, Case
Number 22-04048-CE, dated September 7, 2022. 
 
3)    Exhibit 5: A true and correct copy of the OC Crime Lab, Orange County Sheriff-Coroner Department,
Toxicological Examination Report, for Deceased: Dolmage, Shawn Michael, Coroner
Case Number: 22-04048CE, dated August 23, 2022. 
 
4)    Exhibit 8: A true and correct copy of the Court’s Ruling on Defendants’
Demurrer with Motion To Strike, dated August 14, 2023. 
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
III.         Evidentiary Objections 
 
Defendants’
Objections Nos. 1 to 6: 
 
Defendants object to
portions of the Declaration of Scott P. Brust that refer to Plaintiff’s Exhibit
A on the grounds that the exhibit is not properly authenticated and is hearsay.
Exhibit A is the entire deposition transcript of Anthony Juguilon taken on May
11, 2023. 
 
The court agrees that Exhibit
A is not authenticated by the attorney who took the deposition or by the court
reporter’s signed certification page. (See Ambriz
v. Kelegian (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 1519, 1526–1527 & fn. 3; CCP § 273(a).) However, Defendants
rely on the same deposition transcript to support their motion, and it would be
an error for the court to exclude Plaintiff from relying on the same deposition
testimony to oppose the Motion. (Ambriz, at pp. 1526-1527 [trial court erred in sustaining authentication,
foundation, and other objections to deposition excerpts in the plaintiff's
evidence where the moving parties relied on the same depositions].) 
 
Defendants’
Exhibit 6 is comprised of excerpts from the deposition transcript of Anthony
Jugulilon, M.D. taken on May 11, 2023. 
The deposition is authenticated by the court reporter. Evid. Code § 356
permits the court to admit the entire deposition testimony of Anthony Juguilon to avoid misleading impressions. “The purpose of this
section [356] is to prevent the use of selected aspects of a conversation, act,
declaration, or writing, so as to create a misleading impression on the
subjects addressed.” (People v. Johnson (2022) 12 Cal.5th 544, 604
[internal citations and quotations omitted].)
 
Therefore,
Defendants’ objections Nos. 1 to 6 are overruled. 
 
 
 
Defendants’
objections Nos. 7 to 10
 
Defendants
object to the Declaration of Scott P. Burst as used to introduce Plaintiff’s
Exhibits B and C, which are portions of Plaintiff’s discovery responses to
Defendants’ Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
A party
cannot use his own discovery responses to oppose a motion for summary judgment.
(Great Am. Insur. Cos. v. Gordon Trucking, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
445, 450 [“Thus, the responding party may not use its own interrogatory
responses in its own favor.”].) 
 
The court
sustains objections Nos. 7 to 10. 
 
Defendants’ objections Nos. 11 to 12
 
Defendants object to Declaration of Scott P. Burst as used to introduce
Plaintiff’s Exhibit D, which is a copy of Decedent Shawn Michael Dolmage’s
Certificate of Death. 
 
Evid. Code
§ 1281 makes death certificates admissible and exempt from the hearsay rule: 
 
Evidence of a writing made
as a record of a birth, fetal death, death, or marriage is not made
inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the maker was required by law to file the
writing in a designated public office and the writing was made and filed as required
by law.
 
Plaintiff’s
Exhibit D is also admissible because it is a certified copy of the Orange
County Healthcare Agency. (See Evid. Code § 1530 [A certified purported copy of
a writing in the custody of a public entity is prima facie evidence of the
existence and content of such writing if signed by an official having legal custody
of the writing.]) “With proper certification, the copy of the official writing
is presumed to be authentic, unless the opponent presents evidence to overcome
the presumption that it is a true and correct copy.” (People v. Skiles
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 1178, 1186.) 
 
Lastly,
Defendants rely on the same death certificate because Defendant’s Exhibit 4
contains an uncertified copy of the death certificate. (See Ambriz, supra,
146 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1526-1529.)
 
Therefore,
Defendants’ objections Nos. 11 and 12 are overruled. 
 
IV.         Discussion
 
The following facts are
undisputed unless supported by citation to the evidence. Between June 2012 and
February 2018, Decedent worked as a as a synthetic turf installer for Beyond
the Turf. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 1.)  Beyond the Turf was a subcontractor of
Defendant FieldTurf USA, Inc. (“FieldTurf”). (UMF No. 2.) On June 27, 2019, Decedent
filed this action for toxic tort stemming from his exposure to toxic chemicals
that were manufactured and/or distributed by various Defendants. (See Compl.,
filed 6/27/2019.) On July 9, 2022, the Decedent died at his home. (UMF No. 5.) 
 
On July 12, 2022, the
Orange County Sheriff-Coroner listed the Decedent’s cause of death as an “accident”
caused by “Acute ethanol and cannabinoid intoxication” but under
other conditions, noted “Severe coronary atherosclerosis; history of
pulmonary silicosis.” (Defendants’ Compendium of Evidence (“DCOE”) Ex. 4
[Autopsy Report] at pp. 1 [bold original].) 
 
On May 21, 2024, Defendants
moved for summary judgment or summary adjudication as to the following issues: 
 
Issue 1:
That Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Negligence Against Defendants has no
merit and Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State A Cause of Action Against
Defendants
 
Issue 2:
That Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for Strict Liability - Failure to Warn
Against Defendants Has No Merit and Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State a
Cause of Action Against Defendants
 
Issue 3:
That Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Strict Liability – Design Defect
Against Defendants Has No Merit and Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State a
Cause of Action Against Defendants
 
Issue 4:
That Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause for Fraudulent Concealment Against Defendants Has
No Merit and Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State a Cause of Action Against
Defendants
 
Issue 5:
That Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause for Fraudulent Concealment Against Defendants Has
No Merit and Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State a Cause of Action Against
Defendants
 
Issue 6:
That Plaintiff’s Eighth Cause for Breach of Implied Warranties  Against Defendants Has No Merit and
Therefore, Plaintiff has Failed to State a Cause of Action Against Defendants
 
In their opening brief,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of causation –
that Decedent’s death resulted from his alleged exposure to chemicals and
chemical products that were manufactured, distributed and/or supplied by
Defendants.  (Def. Opening Bf., p.
7.)  Defendants also argue that
Defendants owed no duty to Decedent as a matter of law because Beyond the Turf
employed Decedent, not Defendants.  The
court will address the two arguments in turn.


 
A.  Whether Decedent’s Silicosis was a
“Substantial Factor” in Causing His Death
 
In opposition to
Defendants’ “causation argument,” Plaintiff argued that Decedent’s silicosis
was a “substantial factor” in bringing about his death.  CACI 430 defines substantial factor as:
 
a factor that a reasonable person would
consider to have contributed to the harm. 
It must be more than a remote or
trivial factor.  It does not have to be
the only cause 
of the harm.
 
In their reply brief,
Defendants argue for the first time that Decedent’s “accidental overdose” of
“acute ethanol and cannabinoid intoxication” was an intervening and superseding
cause of Decedent’s death.  “Points
raised for the first time in a reply brief will not be considered.” (Malmstrom
v. Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 299,
320.)  The court will not consider
Defendants’ “intervening/superseding cause” argument and consider only whether Plaintiff
has raised a triable issue as to the cause of Decedent’s death.  
 
Both parties rely on the
deposition testimony of Dr. Anthony Juguilon, the forensic pathologist who
performed the autopsy of the Decedent, to establish their theories of
causation.  Defendants contend Dr.
Juguilon determined that the Decedent’s history of pulmonary silicosis was not
the primary cause of his death: 
 
Q:           And if I understand you
correctly, is it your testimony that you can't quantify the role that the
history of pulmonary silicosis played in Mr. Dolmage’s death? Is that a fair
statement?
 
A:           That's a fair statement.
 
Q:          But in terms of the cause of death, you
didn't list pulmonary silicosis as a cause of death; correct?
 
A:           I did not list pulmonary silicosis as
the primary cause of death. I listed it under other conditions.
 
Q:          Doctor, the cause of death that you
identified based on your autopsy and the review of the toxicology report was
acute ethanol and cannabinoid intoxication; correct?
 
A:           Yes. 
 
Q:          And again, Doctor, to a reasonable
medical probability, was the full .5 percent postmortem ethanol finding in and
of itself sufficient to cause Mr. Dolmage's death?
 
[ . . . ]
A:           .5. Yes.
 
Q:          And if you take into account the silicosis, the history of
silicosis, does that in any way change the opinion you just told us about?
 
A:           It does not.
 
Q:          So is it a fair statement that with or
without a history of pulmonary silicosis that a .5 percent postmortem ethanol
finding was sufficient to cause Mr. Dolmage's death?
 
A:           Yes. 
 
(DCOE Ex. 6
[Juguilon Trans.] at pp. 76:13-77:22; Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence
(“PCOE”) Ex. A [Juguilon Trans.] at pp. 76:13-77:22.) 
 
In contrast, Plaintiff
relies on evidence that on September 7, 2022, the Decedent’s Death Certificate
was amended and Space 112 on the Death Certificate for “OTHER SIGNIFICANT
CONDITIONS CONTRIBUTING TO DEATH” was amended to state “SEVERE CORONARY
ATHEROSCLEROSIS; HISTORY OF PULMONARY SILICOSIS.” (PCOE Ex. D.) Therefore,
Plaintiff asserts that pulmonary silicosis was a contributing factor in the
Decedent’s death.
 
Plaintiff
asserts that Dr. Juguilon further testified:
 
Q:          So is it fair to say that as you sit
here today you don't have an opinion whether Mr. Dolmage's interstitial lung
disease, which was reported to you as being pulmonary silicosis, was a
contributing cause of death; true?
 
A:           Well, I included that on the death certificate.
 
Q:          Oh, I see. And why did you include it on the death
certificate?
 
A:           Because it was a clinical diagnosis that was indicated in
the record.
 
Q:          Okay. So are you saying that it is a contributing cause of
death?
 
A:           It's listed as contributory.
 
Q:          Okay. All right. And that's your opinion; correct?
 
A:           Yes. Based on the information that was afforded to me.
 
Q:          All right. I would assume that you're
not able in any way to make any kind of apportionment
on a percentage basis of contributory causes of death. That would be
unscientific; is that correct?
A:           There's
no way to quantify that.
 
Q:          That's what I thought. Okay. And you're not quantifying it;
correct?
 
A:           I am not.
 
(PCOE Ex. A [Juguilon
Trans. at pp. 62:13-63:12].) 
 
In sum, the deposition
testimony of Dr. Anthony Juguilon contained conflicting testimony: he refused
to apportion the cause of death but he also asserted that the alcohol
intoxication was by itself sufficient to cause the Decedent’s death, with or
without pulmonary silicosis.  (PCOE Ex. A [Juguilon Trans. at pp.
62:13-63:12]; DCOE Ex. 6 [Juguilon Trans.] at pp. 76:13-77:22.) While Dr. Juguilon’s
does not state that pulmonary silicosis was a significant factor in the
Decedent’s death, Defendants failed to establish that pulmonary silicosis was not
a significant factor. 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a fact finder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) “However, ‘the task of disambiguating ambiguous
utterances is for trial, not for summary judgment.’” (Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010)
50 Cal.4th 512, 541.)
Accordingly, the court finds that there is a triable
issue of fact as to whether pulmonary silicosis played a significant factor in
the Decedent’s death.
 C.          Whether Defendants Are Entitled to Summary Adjudication
In addition to the
causation argument, Defendants move for summary adjudication as to the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, and eighth causes of action alleged against them.  
 
As to the first cause of
action, negligence, Defendants argue they owed no duty to the Decedent.  They argue that Material Safety Data Sheets
(“MSDS”) were delivered to Decedent’s employer, Beyond the Turf, with the
hazardous material and were posted at the job site. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff fails as a matter of law to state a cause of action for Negligence
because they cannot “establish that Defendants failed to adequately warn
Decedent or failed to provide adequate instructions to Decedent for the safe
handling and use of Defendants alleged toxic chemicals products.”  (Motion, 4.) (UMF 4.)
 
As to the second cause of
action, for strict liability- failure to warn, Defendants argue Plaintiff has
no evidence that Defendants failed to adequately warn Decedent about the safe
handling and use of Defendants’ allegedly toxic chemical products.  (UMF 4). 
As to the third cause of action, for strict liability – design defect, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish any design defect caused Decedent’s
death.  As to the fourth and fifth causes
of action, for fraudulent concealment, Defendants argue that they had no
fiduciary or transaction relationship with the Decedent such that they owed him
a duty to warn.
Finally, as to the eighth
cause of action, for breach of implied warranties, Defendants again argue that
their products did not cause Decedent’s death. 

 
In opposition, Plaintiff addresses
only the Fraudulent Concealment claims and asserts that Defendants owed a duty
to disclose. “A duty to speak may arise
in four ways: it may be directly imposed by statute or other prescriptive law;
it may be voluntarily assumed by contractual undertaking; it may arise as an
incident of a relationship between the defendant and the plaintiff; and it may
arise as a result of other conduct by the defendant that makes it wrongful for
him to remain silent.” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 867.)
 
Plaintiff
asserts Defendants owed a statutory duty to disclose under 8 C.C.R. § 5194,
Lab. Code § 6390.5, the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (29 C.F.R. §
1910.1200). Plaintiff asserts that under the Federal Occupational Safety and
Health Act, manufacturers and distributors of chemicals must provide a MSDS for
each hazardous chemical they produce. (29 C.F.R. §1910.1200(g)(1); California
Chamber of Commerce v. Brown (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 233, 241 [The Hazard
Communication Standard “requires manufacturers, importers and employers to
evaluate chemicals they produce, import or utilize to determine if the
chemicals are hazardous and the particular hazards they pose.”].) Plaintiff
asserts the MSDA must contain the “(i) identity
of the hazardous chemicals, and (ii) appropriate hazard warnings.” (29 C.F.R.
§1910.1200(f)(I)-(ii); 29 C.F.R. §1910.1200(f)(3).)
 
Plaintiff further asserts
that Defendants owe a common law duty to warn the users of their product of
known dangers that the user would not ordinarily discover. (See Tingey v.
E.F. Houghton & Co. (1947) 30 Cal.2d 97, 102; Anderson v.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 987, 1002; Jones
v. ConocoPhillips Co.
(2011) 198 Cal. App.4th 1187 [finding chemical manufacturer duty to disclose
the hazardous chemicals to its workers].) 
 
On
reply, Defendants assert they owed no duty to the Decedent because he worked
for a subcontractor, thus negating any employee-employer relationship with the
Decedent. 
Defendants
assert that workmen’s compensation law preempts Plaintiff’s claims for
fraudulent concealment because the injury was sustained during the Decedent’s
scope of employment. (Torres v. Parkhouse Tire Serv., Inc. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 995, 1002.) Again, “[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief
will not be considered.” (Malmstrom v. Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical
Corp. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 299, 320.) 
 
Defendants
also assert that there was no breach of duty because the MSDS were provided to
Decedent’s employer and posted on the job site. (UMF 4). (DCOE, Ex. 3
[Jacqueline Alarie Trans. at pp. 22:1-12; 23:7-24:1; 25:10-20].) Plaintiff
disputes UMF 4, however, because there was no evidence that the MSDS were posted
at the worksite and Defendants “produced no evidence as to whether any Material
Safety Data Sheets included warnings concerning the risk of developing lung
disease, or whether such warnings were adequate.”  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, UMF 4.)  At oral argument, Plaintiff’s counsel also
argued that Defendants had not met their burden of proving that the warnings
were adequate.  
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendants have
not met their burden of showing that the warning was adequate to protect the
Decedent from the potential harm of their chemical products.  (See CACI 1205.) “[T]here can be no liability
for failure to warn where the instructions or warnings sufficiently alert the
user to the possibility of danger.” (Aguayo v. Crompton &
Knowles Corp. (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1032, 1042.) Therefore, the content of
the MSDS is at issue and Defendants failed to show that the MSDS provided
sufficient warning about the dangers of lung disease.
Conclusion
 
For
the reasons set forth above, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for summary judgment,
alternatively for summary adjudication.