  Case Number:  23CHCV02263    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-17-24
Case
# 23CHCV02263, Burrough v. Costco Wholesale Corporation, et al.
Trial
Date: 04-28-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Angelique Burrough
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
compelling objection-free responses and responsive documents to requests for
production numbers 14 and 15 and $1,845.00 in sanctions.
 
RULING: The parties are
ordered to meet and confer directly and to file a joint statement of remaining
issues. 
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff Angelique Burrough (Plaintiff) filed this personal
injury case against Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation (Defendant).  Plaintiff alleges that on October 30, 2021,
Plaintiff was shopping at Defendant’s place of business when Defendant’s
employee struck her with a row of grocery carts.  As a result, Plaintiff fell and sustained
bodily injuries.  
 
On
August 29, 2023, Defendant filed an answer asserting affirmative defenses
including that Plaintiff’s conduct contributed to her damages and
injuries.  
 
On
July 18, 2024, Defendant issued a subpoena to Verizon Wireless Services, LLC
for Plaintiff’s phone call and text records from October 30, 2021.  On August 16, 2024, Verizon informed
Defendant it could not comply with the subpoena until Plaintiff signed a
consent form authorizing the release. 
Defendant alleges it attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff between
September 11 and October 21, 2024 to obtain Plaintiff’s consent for the phone
records, and Plaintiff did not consent. 
 
On
October 2, 2024, Defendant propounded on Plaintiff its Requests for Production,
Set Two seeking Plaintiff’s cellular phone records, including outgoing and
incoming phone calls and text messages, from October 30, 2021, between 2:00
p.m. and 5:00 p.m.  Plaintiff served
objection-only responses on November 4, 2024. 

 
Defendant
filed this motion to compel further responses to its Requests for Production,
Set Two numbers 14 and 15 on November 14, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on December 4, 2024.
 
No
reply has been filed.
 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
A
motion to compel further responses to inspection demands must be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” to resolve the issues mentioned in the motion before filing.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2),
2016.040.)  
 
There
appears to be a dispute between the parties over the efforts of the parties to
meet and confer.  Defendant argues that
it attempted to meet and confer by sending letters on September 11, 12, 18, and
October 2, 2024.  (Declaration of Evelin
Duenas, Esq., ¶¶ 5-9, Exhs. 4-7.)  The
parties met and conferred via videoconference on October 2, 2024, but
Plaintiff’s counsel expressed his client’s hesitance to authorize production of
the requested documents.  (Duenas Dec., ¶
10.)  On October 18, 2024, Defendant sent
another meet and confer letter.  (Duenas
Dec., ¶ 15, Exh. 9.)  On October 21,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel advised that the requested documents are not relevant
to any claims or defenses, and Defendant sent another meet and confer letter.  (Duenas Dec., ¶¶ 16, 17, Exh. 11.)  Plaintiff’s initial responses, served
November 4, 2024, did not produce the requested documents, and Plaintiff failed
to meet and confer.  (Duenas Dec., ¶¶ 19-20,
Exh. 2.)  
 
In
her opposition, Plaintiff argues it is Defendant who has failed to meet and
confer in good faith.  On November 19,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested Defendant continue this motion in order to
obtain the requested records directly from Plaintiff in order to resolve the
issue informally.  (Declaration of
Alexander J. Zeesman, Esq., ¶ 9, Exh. A, at p. 1.)  That same day, Defendant agreed to take the
motion off calendar.  (Zeesman Dec., ¶
10, Exh. B, at p. 1.)  Defendant did not
respond to Plaintiff’s subsequent good faith attempts to resolve the
dispute.  (Zeesman Dec., ¶ 11.)  
 
SUMMARY
OF ARGUMENTS
Defendant
argues the requested records are relevant to its defense that Plaintiff was on
the phone, distracted, and not paying attempt when the alleged incident
occurred.  Plaintiff stated during her
deposition that she could not remember if she was on her phone during the
incident.  If Plaintiff was on her phone,
this is relevant to Defendant’s defense that Plaintiff caused her injuries.  Defendant has already subpoenaed Plaintiff’s
phone carrier, Verizon, who advised Defendant it would need Plaintiff’s signed
authorization to comply.  Defendant has
limited the scope of its request by date and time.  Plaintiff’s counsel refuses to meet and
confer to discuss further and is withholding the phone records because it
wishes Defendant to release video surveillance verifications.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s requests are unnecessary because they
do not relate to any claims or defenses in this case.  This motion is also frivolous because on
November 19, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel advised Defendant that Plaintiff would
attempt to obtain the phone records directly from Verizon, and Defendant
offered to remove this motion from the calendar.  Defendant has not met and conferred in good
faith, and the Court should not award sanctions for Defendant’s failure to
comply.  
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time due to the insufficiency of the meet and
confer process.  Although the moving
papers indicate the parties met and conferred via video conference prior to
Defendant propounding the requests, the parties do not present evidence that
they met and conferred telephonically or via video conference prior to
Defendant filing this motion.  There also
seems to be confusion about why Defendant agreed to take the motion off
calendar but did not do so.  
 
The
Court orders the parties to meet and confer directly, not by email or letter.
Additionally, the parties are ordered to file a joint statement of remaining
issues by a date to be set by the Court. The joint statement should briefly
describe the matters in dispute, followed by Plaintiff’s arguments, then
Defendant’s arguments.
 
ORDER
1.
 The parties are ordered to conduct a
meaningful meet and confer directly, not by email or letter. 
 
2.
 The parties shall submit a joint
statement of the remaining issues as described above.  The format should be as follows: the parties
should recite the specific discovery request at issue, followed by the moving
party’s statement of why it should be compelled, followed by the opposing
party’s statement of why it should not be compelled.  To the extent that an argument is repeated for
a subsequent request, the party shall simply refer to the section where the
argument was previously made. 
 
3.
 The dates for the status report and
continued hearings will be set at the hearing on this motion.  
 
Defendant
to give notice.