  Case Number:  24STCV07022    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  76 Defendants
Modernize Remodeling Inc. and Renovateworks Inc.’s demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the third cause of action
and with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action.
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend as to Prayer for Relief,
Page 8, Line 4 (punitive damages); Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Line 5 (attorney fees),
and without leave to amend as to Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Line 6 (declaratory
relief). The motion to strike is DENIED as to Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Line 7
(prejudgment interest).
            Plaintiff is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and
Confer
            The
Declaration of Eitan Yehoshua reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet
and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
Defendants
Modernize Remodeling Inc. and Renovateworks Inc. demur to the Second Amended Complaint
and move to strike portions thereof. 
1.         Third
Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief).
            Defendants
argue that this cause of action only pertains to past conduct.  Declaratory relief is not available to address completed past wrongs: 
“The purpose of a judicial declaration of
rights in advance of an actual tortious incident is to enable the parties to shape
their conduct so as to avoid a breach. ‘[D]eclaratory procedure operates prospectively,
and not merely for the redress of past wrongs.
It serves to set controversies at rest before
they lead to repudiation of obligations, invasion of rights or commission of wrongs;
in short, the remedy is to be used in the interests of preventive justice, to declare rights rather than execute them.’ “ (Citation
omitted.) Although Roberts filed her complaint prior to the November 2000 General
Election, that election is long past, and Roberts does not claim she has a present
contractual relationship with the Bar Association. (See Travers v. Louden (1967)
254 Cal. App. 2d 926, 929 [62 Cal. Rptr. 654] [“[W]e have found no authority for
the proposition that declaratory relief is proper procedure when the rights of the
complaining party have crystallized into a cause of action for past wrongs, all
relationship between the parties has ceased to exist and there is no conduct of
the parties subject to regulation by the court.”].) Thus, declaratory relief is
not available. 


(Roberts v. Los Angeles County Bar
Assn. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 618 [bold emphasis added].)
            Here,
the actions alleged against Defendants occurred in March 2023 and there is no allegation
that there is an ongoing contractual relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants.
            As
such, the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
2.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Violation of Business and Professions Code, § 17200).
            Defendants
argue that this cause of action does not allege any unfair business practices as
against demurring Defendants, but only pertain to the insurance policy.
            Here,
Plaintiff does not specify the unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices
which form the basis of this statutory cause of action. “[S]tatutory causes of
action must be pleaded with particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Motion To Strike
Meet and
Confer
            The
Declaration of Eitan Yehoshua reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet
and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 435.5.
Discussion
Defendants
Modernize Remodeling Inc. and Renovateworks Inc. move to strike the following portions
of the Second Amended Complaint:
1.         The following language in Plaintiffs Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Line 4: “For punitive damages in an
amount according to proof;
            GRANTED with leave to amend as to moving
Defendants.
            The 2AC fails to allege that the moving
Defendants acted with malice, oppression or fraud toward Plaintiff. (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(c)(1) – (3).)
2.         The following language in Plaintiffs Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Line 5: “For attorney fees in an amount according to proof;
            GRANTED with leave to amend as to moving
Defendants.
“[A]s a general rule, attorney fees
are not recoverable as costs unless they are authorized by statute or agreement.”
(People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. Speedee
Oil Change Systems, Inc. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 424, 429.) Here, the 2AC does
not specify a contractual or statutory basis for recovery of attorney’s fees as
against moving Defendants.
3.         The following language in Plaintiffs Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Line 6: “Declaratory relief;
            GRANTED without leave to amend.
            As discussed above re: the demurrer,
declaratory relief is improper as against moving Defendants.
4.         The following language in Plaintiffs Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Line 7: “Prejudgment interest and interest on any judgment entered
by the Court”.
            DENIED.
            Prejudgment
interest on tort claims may be awarded on unliquidated sums in the jury’s discretion.  Civil Code § 3288.  “In an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, and in every case of oppression, fraud, or malice, interest
may be given, in the discretion of the jury.” (Civ. Code, § 3288.) Here, a jury
has discretion to award prejudgment interest on any tort claims which are successfully
pled.
            Plaintiff is
given 30 days’ leave to amend where specified.
 
 