  Case Number:  22STCV10494    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S.
Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿¿ 
MOTIONS FOR
RELIEF FROM DEFAULT¿ 
Hearing
Date: 7/1/24¿ 
CASE
NO./NAME: 22STCV10494 TPG (CERRITO) ACQUISITION, LLC vs LEO’S TRUCK SERVICE,
INC & FELIPE GONZALEZ 
Moving
Party: Defendant Leo’s Trucking Service, Inc., and Felipe Gonzalez  
Responding
Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice:
Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:
MOTIONS FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT¿FOR
DEFENDANTS FELIPE GONZALEZ AND LEO’S TRUCKING ARE DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP §473.5 
¿ 
CCP
§473.5(a) permits the court to vacate a default judgment “[w]hen service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him.” The
phrase “actual notice” means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant.” (Tunis
v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal. App. 3d 1069, 1077.)¿ 
 
"A
party seeking relief under section 473.5 must provide an affidavit showing
under oath that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend was not
caused by inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service. " (Anastos v. Lee
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1314, 1319.) The moving party has the burden of showing
good cause for relief from a default or a default judgment. (Tunis v. Barrow
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1079-1080.)
 
Substituted
Service
 
Both
corporations and individuals can be served through substituted service pursuant
to CCP § 415.20
 
Under
subsection (a), a corporation can be served, in lieu of personal delivery of a
copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served as specified in
Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or
her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of
the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to
be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
 
Under
subsection (b), an individual can be served, if a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. 
¿ 
Discussion¿
 
On March 8,
2023, default judgment was entered against Defendants Leo’s Trucking Service,
Inc., and Felipe Gonzalez. On May 28, 2024, more than a year after the default
judgment was entered, Defendants moved the Court for relief from default judgment
under CCP § 473.5, arguing that they did not receive actual notice.
 
A party
seeking relief under CCP § 473.5 must show both a lack of actual notice and
that their lack of actual notice in time to defend was not caused by
inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service.
 
Leo’s
Trucking Services
 
Plaintiff’s
proof of service showed that on April 6, 2022, Joselyn M. Monterroso, the agent
for service for Defendant, was allegedly served through substitute service at
1328 W. 55th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90037, through co-occupant Illiana Flores.
A copy of the summons and complaint was subsequently mailed to Defendant at
1328 W. 55th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90037. Defendant Leo’s Trucking argues
that it was not aware of the present lawsuit until early this year (Purcell
Decl. ¶6; Monterroso Decl. ¶¶5, 8). Joselyn Monterroso, the agent for
Defendant, also declared that she does not and has never lived at 1328 W. 55th
Street.
 
As pointed
out by Plaintiff in the opposition, there are several issues with the
declaration. First, a corporation may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint during usual office hours at its office or with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof. Although Defendant argues that
Monterroso never lived at the location, a corporation can be served by
substitute service by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with an
individual apparently in charge of Defendant’s office. The proof of service
states that it was served on someone who was in charge of the premises listed
as Defendant’s mailing and principal address in its filing with the Secretary
of State. Defendant does not address this point in the reply, and no
declaration by Defendant states that 1328 W. 55th Street is not the principal
or mailing address for Defendant.
 
Furthermore,
Monterroso’s declaration does not state her role for Defendant or whether she
is making the declaration on behalf of Defendant. Therefore, it is unknown if
Defendant or another member of the company received actual notice of the
lawsuit.
 
Based on
the foregoing analysis, Defendant failed to meet its initial burden in showing
that Defendant did not have actual notice of the case or that the lack of
notice was not due to inexcusable neglect.
 
Felipe
Gonzalez
 
On April
21, 2022, Mr. Gonzalez was served through substituted service at 1328 W. 55th
St., Los Angeles, CA 90037, through a co-occupant, Kayleen Flores. An affidavit
of diligence was attached to the proof of service, showing that the process
server attempted to personally serve Gonzalez 8 times at different addresses,
including the 55th Street address. Defendant Gonzalez filed a declaration
stating that he did not live at that address at that time or ever before
(Gonzalez Decl. ¶6).
 
Under CCP §
415.20, if a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence
be personally delivered to the person to be served, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house,
usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address (other
than a United States Postal Service post office box), in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office or place of business.
 
Gonzalez’s
declaration is silent on whether 1328 W. 55th St. is his usual place of
business or usual mailing address. Gonzalez’s declaration only states that he
never lived there. Gonzalez filed a reply but did not address this point or
provide a supplemental declaration stating that 1328 W. 55th St. is not his
usual mailing address or usual place of business. Defendant might have shown
that he did not have actual notice, but failed to show how this lack of notice
was not caused by inexcusable neglect.
 
Thus, the
present motions are DENIED. 
 
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:¿ 
¿ 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
¿ 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 