 Case Number:  24STCV05062    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VIG PRIVATE LENDING
  
        
  vs.
 
ILAN KENIG 

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV05062   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 31, 2024




 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
On 2/29/2024,
Plaintiff Vig Private Lending, Inc (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer
action against Defendant Ilan Kenig (Defendant). On 4/24/2024, Plaintiff filed
a first amended unlawful detainer complaint. (FAC). 
 
On 5/2/2024,
Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is invalid because Plaintiff does not have
standing to pursue this action.
 
In
California, every action must be prosecuted in the name of the “real party in
interest,” except as otherwise provided by statute. (C.C.P. § 367.) This rule
is designed to protect the Defendant from a multiplicity of suits and to fix
and determine the real liability alleged in the complaint. (Bank of the
Orient v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 588, 594.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that it “…entered into a Property Management Agreement
with the purchaser of the property, wherein Yarden authorizes Plaintiff to
institute legal proceedings in the name of Plaintiff and assigns to Plaintiff
all rights to possession of the Premises, collection and enforcement of
litigation and damages and any and all rights as may otherwise be necessary for
Plaintiff to prosecute unlawful detainers and litigation in its own name.” (FAC
¶ 6.)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s allegation leaves uncertain whether or not Plaintiff was
assigned a right to collect rent and bring actions on its behalf, or if it was
assigned an interest in the real property. 
Defendant argues that this distinction is important because “[w]hile
Civil Code Section 954 allows assignment of the right to recover money or
personal property, it does not apply to real property.” (Motion, 7: 19-20.) In
support, Defendant cites two cases Martin v. Bridgeport Community Assn.,
Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1024, 1033 and Chao Fu, Inc. v. Chen
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 48, 57.
 
However, as
noted by Plaintiff in opposition, both cases are distinguishable. Martin related
to the ability of a non-owner resident of a communal development to bring an
action as a third party beneficiary of a lot-line adjustment agreement between
the HOA and the owners of the subdivision. The Court held they were not third
party beneficiaries of the agreement and could not enforce the lot line
adjustment on the owner’s behalf. Chen was an action for quiet title
seeking to transfer title to real property. The Court held that a person cannot
bring a quiet title action unless they can claim an interest in title.
 
            The
Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the pleading stage, and
Defendant itself concedes that whether a party has standing is an issue of
fact. (Demurrer, 4:22-23.) 
 
            Plaintiff
has alleged that it was assigned the requisite interest in the property,
including the right to possession of the Premises, the right of collection of
enforcement, and any other rights which would be necessary to Plaintiff to
prosecute unlawful detainers. Accordingly, Plaintiff has alleged facts which
could show it has standing to prosecute this action at the pleading stage. Whether
or not Plaintiff, in fact, has a sufficient interest in the property to pursue
this claim, will require factual determination not properly made at this
stage.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 