 Case Number:  22STCV25985    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JAMES DAVIS, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
SCOTT EPPINGA, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV25985   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 31, 2024




 
            Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED,
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 10/24/2023, Plaintiffs James Davis, Paranotek, LLC,
and Astra Veda Corporation (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Scott
Eppinga, Bradley M. Listermann, Benjamin Eppinga, and Think Humble, Inc. On
4/24/2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duties; (2) breach of the duty of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) fraud; an d(4) unjust enrichment.
 
On 4/24/2024, Defendants Scott Eppinga, Benjamin Eppinga,
and Think Humble, Inc. demurred to the FAC. 
 
Discussion

 
            As a preliminary matter, “[e]xcept in a summary
judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum
may exceed 15 pages.” (CRC Rule 3.113.) Despite this, Defendants’ Memorandum of
Points and Authorities is a total of 34 pages. Defendants are to abide by page
limit, or the Court will disregard the portion of the motion that exceeds the
page-limit. Given that Defendants’ argument section did not begin in this motion
until page 19, the Court would ordinarily decline to consider Defendants’
argument.
 
            However, given Plaintiff’s lack of
opposition, and given the nature of Defendants’ arguments, the Court makes an
exception to consider the arguments advanced here. 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
claims are based on allegations which have already been considered, and
rejected, by a Wyoming Court. As a result, Defendants’ argue the entire case is
barred by issue preclusion/collateral estoppel:
 
Plaintiffs’ entire case—all four causes of action
against all Eppinga Defendants—is based upon their allegations that the loans
Scott Eppinga made to Astra Veda are fraudulent and that the Defendants
“forged” documents to cover up these “bad” loans. However, the Wyoming court
has held that these loans and documents are valid and enforceable. 
 
            (Demurrer, 19: 7-9.)
 
“Res judicata applies if (1) the decision in the
prior proceeding is final and on the merits; (2) the present proceeding is on
the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the
present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior
proceeding.” (Fed'n of Hillside & Canyon Associations v. City of Los
Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1202.) 
            
            Here, Defendants argue that the
elements of issue preclusion are clearly met: (1) Plaintiffs were each named
Defendants in the Wyoming Action; (2) the Wyoming court issued a final
adjudication on the identical issue which is the heart of the present action,
i.e., are the Loan and Stock Agreement, Resolution, and the underlying loans
from Scott Epping to Astra Veda valid? 
 
Defendants also submitted documentation to show that:
(1) Plaintiffs admitted in the Wyoming Action that the Loan and Stock Agreement
is valid (Exh. E, Defs’ W.R.C.P. 56.1(b) Statement, at ¶ 1.; (2)
Plaintiffs admitted that the Astra Veda Board Resolution adopting the Loan and
Stock Agreement is valid (Id. at ¶ 2.); (3) Plaintiffs also admitted
that the underlying loans noted in the Loan Agreement are valid. (Id. at
¶¶ 4-5.). Based on these admissions, the Wyoming court found the Loan Agreement
valid and enforceable against Astra Veda. (Exh. G.)
 
            Plaintiffs did not oppose this
motion, and thus have not set forth any argument or legal authority which could
rebut Defendants’ contention that their claim is barred by res
judicata/collateral estoppel. The Court takes Plaintiffs’ non-opposition as a
concession on the merits to Defendants’ claim. 

 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
             