 Case Number:  22STCV18501    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HUGO VILLASENOR,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERTO D. BANUELOS, JR., et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV18501
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: 
  February 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: September 3, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Revel Management Group, LLC (“Moving
Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The Court has reviewed the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of a business relationship. The currently operative first amended complaint
(the “FAC”) alleges: (1) breach of oral/implied operating agreement; (2) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary
duty; (4) judicial dissolution by manager; (5) judicial dissolution by member;
(6) accounting; (7) breach of oral contract; (8) breach of implied-in-fact
contract; (9) violation of Corporations Code section 17704.10, subdivision (g);
(10) unjust enrichment; (11) quantum meruit; (12) willful misclassification;
(13) willful refusal to pay wages earned; (14) failure to indemnify employee
for costs and expenditures; (15) declaratory relief; (16) injunctive relief;
(17) constructive trust; and (18) Business and Professions Code section
17200.  
 
On December 11,
2023, Moving Defendant filed amotion for leave to file a cross-complaint (the
“Motion”).  The proposed cross-complaint
(the “XC”) alleges: (1) intentional interference with contractual relations;
(2) intentional interference with prospective economic relations; and (3)
misappropriation of trade secrets against Plaintiff and third parties Alexandra
Del Salto (“Del Salto”) and The Muse Agency, LLC (“Muse”).  (Declaration of Kasey Diba (“Diba Decl.”) ¶
2, Exhibit A.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            Moving
Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Mohamad Hadwan (“Hadwan Decl.”) numbers
1-3 are OVERRULED.  Moving Defendant’s
objection to the Hadwan Declaration number 4 is SUSTAINED. 
 
DISCUSSION
Under California Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 426.30, a party against whom a complaint
has been filed and served who fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related
cause of action which, at the time of serving his answer to the complaint, he
has against the plaintiff may not thereafter assert the unpleaded related cause
of action against the plaintiff in any other action.  (CCP § 426.30, subd. (a).)  A related
cause of action is a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action
which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.  (CCP § 426.10, subd.
(c).) 
 
CCP section 426.50 provides that a party who fails to plead a cause of
action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. 
(CCP § 426.50.)  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend a pleading or to file a cross-complaint.  (Id.) 
A policy of liberal construction of CCP section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.  (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)  A
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the
action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.  (Id. at
99.)  Factors such as oversight,
inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause are insufficient grounds to deny
the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.  (Id.)  Bad faith is
defined as the opposite of “good faith,” generally implying or involving actual
or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect
or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by
an honest mistake, but by some interested or sinister motive, not simply bad
judgment or negligence, but rather the conscious doing of a wrong because of
dishonest purpose or moral obliquity.  (Id.
at 100.)  Substantial evidence must support the court’s
decision that a defendant has not acted in good faith.  (Id. at 99.)  The statutory terminology allows the court some modicum of discretion in
determining whether or not a defendant has acted in good faith, however.  (Gherman v. Colburn
(1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 559.)  For
example, the court may interpret a party’s delay in seeking to file a
cross-complaint as evidence of lack of good faith, especially when coupled with
a long history of litigation between the parties.  (See id.)
 
Moving Defendant learned the information underlying the allegations in
the proposed XC after deposing Plaintiff and Del Salto on October 17, 2023 and
October 25, 2023, respectively.  (See Diba
Decl. ¶¶ 4-11.)  Plaintiff argues
that the Motion was not brought in good faith because Moving Defendant learned
of Plaintiff’s relationship with Muse through discovery early in this
litigation and Moving Defendant only sought leave to file the XC after
Plaintiff rejected its settlement offer. 
(See Hadwan Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 

 
The Court finds that Moving Defendant’s general awareness of Muse and its
previous settlement attempt do not demonstrate that the Motion was not brought
in good faith.  The Motion sets forth
specific facts regarding the allegedly wrongful conduct of Plaintiff and Del
Salto in connection with Muse that Moving Defendant learned in depositions in
late October.  (See Diba Decl. ¶¶
7-11.)  Moving Defendant acted promptly
thereafter to request leave to file the XC. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion. 
Moving Defendant is ordered to file the proposed XC within five court
days of the date of this order. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 15th day of February 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 