


[1]            Motion #1 was filed (and served via
email) on August 16, 2023, and originally set for hearing on September 20,
2023. On August 30, 2023, the court rescheduled the September 20, 2023, hearing
date on Motion #1 to December 12, 2023; notice was waived. 


[2]            Motion #2 was filed (and served via
email and mail) on November 16, 2023 and set for hearing on December 12, 2023.
Plaintiff failed to provide adequate notice per Code of Civil Procedure §§
1005(b) (i.e., 16 court days, plus 5 calendar days for mailing) and
1010.6(a)(3)(B) (i.e., 2 court days for electronic service). Defendants,
however, have opposed Motion #2 on the merits: “It is well settled that the
appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to
the motion on its merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the
notice of the motion.” (Tate v. Superior Court (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925,
930). The court will consider and rule on the merits of the motion.


[3]            This
provision reads, in relevant part, as follows: “(a) Before filing a demurrer
pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. If an
amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer is filed, the responding party
shall meet and confer again with the party who filed the amended pleading
before filing a demurrer to the amended pleading.
 
(1)         As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies. The party who filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer
shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.
 
(2)         The parties shall meet and confer at
least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties
are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the
responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic
30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing
and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a
declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet
and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet
and confer. The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the responsive
pleading was previously due, and the demurring party shall not be subject to
default during the period of the extension. Any further extensions shall be
obtained by court order upon a showing of good cause.
 
(3)         The demurring party shall file and serve
with the demurrer a declaration stating either of the following:
 
(A)        The
means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed
the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. 
 
(B)
        That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith . .
.” (Emphasis added).
 


[4]            Defendants’ opposition was untimely
filed on December 4, 2023, and served (i.e., via email on December 3, 2023. The
opposition was due November 29, 2023. The court will entertain the merits of
the opposition, particularly given the untimely notice of the moving papers.

