  Case Number:  22PSCV00148    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  K 1.         Defendant Ramon and Son Roofing Inc.’s
Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment Entered on June 7, 2022 and to
Recall All Writs of Execution or Levy Issued Against Defendant and for an
Issuance of an Order Commanding Plaintiff to Return the Funds Already Levied by
Plaintiff Against Defendant is DENIED.
2.         Defendant Konstruct Inc.’s Motion to
Vacate Default and Default Judgment Entered on June 7, 2022 and to Recall All
Writs of Execution or Levy Issued Against Defendant and for an Issuance of an
Order Commanding Plaintiff to Return the Funds Already Levied by Plaintiff
Against Defendant is DENIED.
Background[1]          
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) is
a collection agency assigned this matter by State Compensation Insurance Fund (“Assignor”).
Plaintiff alleges that its Assignor and Defendants Ramon and Son Roofing, Inc.
aka Ramon and Son Roofing Inc. aka Ramon & Son Roofing, Inc. (“Ramon &
Sons”) and Konstruct Inc. aka Konstruct (“Konstruct”) (together, “Defendants”)
entered into a written agreement wherein Assignor agreed to provide policies of
workers compensation insurance to Defendants, bearing Policy Nos. 9262149-19
(covering the period of October 9, 2019 through October 9, 2020) and 9262149-20
(covering the period of October 9, 2020 through April 30, 2021), in exchange
for Defendants’ payment of premiums. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed
to pay premiums.
On February 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-10 for:
1.              
Breach of Contract
2.              
Open Book Account
3.              
Account Stated
4.              
Reasonable Value
On April 28, 2022, Defendants’ defaults were entered.
On June 7, 2022, default judgment was entered.
1.         Motion to
Vacate Re: Ramon & Sons
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own
motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as
to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either
party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).)
Discussion 
Ramon & Sons moves the court for an order vacating the
default judgment entered June 7, 2022. Ramon & Sons also seeks an order
vacating all writs and/or levies against it in favor of Plaintiff and an order
commanding Plaintiff to return the funds already levied against it.
Ramon & Sons contends that
the default judgment is void due to improper service of process. They argue
that Plaintiff’s proof of service filed April 18, 2022 as to Ramon & Sons is
faulty because it did not include a declaration of diligence stating what
actions were taken first to attempt to personally serve the summons and
complaint to Eriberto Ramon (“Eriberto”), their agent for service of process,
prior to effectuating substitute service. (Yadidi Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 1.)
Ramon & Sons’ position, however, is incorrect. Ramon
& Sons is a corporation. “A summons may be served on a corporation by
delivering a copy of the summons and complaint. . . (a) To the person
designated as agent for service of process. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd.
(a).)
Plaintiff’s counsel Kenneth Freed (“Freed”) has provided the
court with a printout from the California Secretary of State website regarding
Ramon & Sons effective November 11, 2021, which identifies Eriberto as its
agent for service of process. (Freed Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1). The printout
identifies Ramon & Sons’ address and mailing address, as well as its agent
for service of process’ address, as “1429 W 35th Place, Los Angeles, CA 90018”
(“W. 35th Place address”); no other addresses are identified. The W.
35th Place address is the same address reflected on Plaintiff’s
proof of service filed April 18, 2022.
Further, Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20, subdivision
(a) provides, in relevant part, as follows:
 
In lieu of personal delivery of a
copy of the summons and complaint to the 
person to be served as specified in
Section 416.10. . ., a summons may be 
served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint during usual office 
hours in his or her office or, if no
physical address is known, at his or her 
usual mailing address, other than a
United States Postal Service post office 
box, with the person who is
apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter 
mailing a copy of the summons and
complaint by first-class mail, postage 
prepaid to the person to be served
at the place where a copy of the summons 
and complaint were left. When
service is effected by leaving a copy of the 
summons and complaint at a mailing
address, it shall be left with a person at 
least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof. Service 
of a summons in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after the 
mailing.
 
Subdivision (a) does not contain any “reasonable diligence”
requirement, as set forth in subdivision (b). (See Weil & Brown, et al.,
CAL. PRAC. GUIDE: CIV. PRO. BEFORE TRIAL (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 4:196 [“The
big difference in using substitute service for individual, as opposed to
entity, defendants is that a good faith effort at personal service must first
be attempted. I.e., there must be a showing that summons ‘cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered’
to the individual defendant. [CCP § 415.20(b)] (No such showing is
necessary for substitute service on entity defendants; see CCP § 415.20(a))”].)
Ramon & Sons’ motion, then, is
denied.
2.         Motion to
Vacate Re: Konstruct
Legal Standard
See Motion
#1.
Discussion
Konstruct moves the court for an order vacating the default
judgment entered June 7, 2022. Konstruct also seeks an order vacating all writs
and/or levies against it in favor of Plaintiff and an order commanding
Plaintiff to return the funds already levied against it.
Konstruct’s argument is identical to that raised by Ramon
& Sons’ above.
In opposition, however, Plaintiff’s counsel Freed has
provided the court with a printout from the California Secretary of State
website regarding Konstruct effective November 11, 2021, which identifies Vlad
Garber as its agent for service of process. (Freed Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1). The printout
identifies Konstruct’s address and mailing address, as well as its agent for
service of process’ address, as “3964 Bixby, La Verne, CA 91750” (“Bixby
address”); no other addresses are identified. The Bixby address is the same
address reflected on Plaintiff’s proof of service filed April 18,
2022. Again, Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20, subdivision (a) does not contain any
“reasonable diligence” requirement.
Konstruct’s motion is denied.


