  Case Number:  23VECV01576	    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT




Hamid Kohan Darvish,
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Khelika Bell et al. 
 
Defendants.


 
   Case
  Number             Department
23VECV01576                     107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
Motion for Judgment on the
  PLeadings
 
 



BACKGROUND
 
On April 11, 2023, Hamid Kohan Darvish (decedent) filed suit
against defendants Khelika Bell (Bell), El Camino Real Charger High School (El Camino),
Friends of ECR (ECR), and the City of Los Angeles (the City; collectively defendants).
On May 23, 2024, the estate of Hamid Kohan Darvish and Sarah Kohan Darvish (Kohan
Darvish; collectively plaintiffs) filed the operative first amended complaint
for damages. The Decedent appears to allege a claim for negligence against all
defendants while Kohan Darvish asserts a claim for loss of consortium. 
 
Plaintiffs alleged that on November 6, 2022, at 5600 North Valley
Circle Boulevard at Woodland Hills, the Decedent was on his way to the local
high school for a carnival. When Decedent tried to cross the street at Valley
Circle Blvd, Bell struck him with her vehicle. Bell was distracted by the
lights of the carnival. The Decedent suffered severe injuries which he
eventually succumbed to. Defendants El Camino, ECR and the City were the owners
of the grounds where the carnival was located as well as the organizers and
operators of the event. They created the unsafe conditions when they failed to
provide safe access to El Camino, created a substantial increase in local
traffic and failed to mitigate any safety hazards caused by the event. 
 
 
On August 1, 2024, the City filed a Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings as to the complaint filed by Kohan Darvish on the grounds that plaintiff
failed to comply with the claims presentation requirement of the California
Tort Claims Act. The Plaintiffs did not file an opposition. 
 
On August 29, 2024, the court denied plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file a second amended complaint.
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
 The motion
for judgment on the pleadings is granted with leave to amend. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard: 
A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that “[t]he complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
Analysis
The issue is whether
Kohan Darvish has complied with the claims presentation requirement. 
Generally, no suit for
money or damages may be brought against a public entity until a written claim,
known as a government claim, is presented to and rejected by that entity. (Gov.
Code §§ 905 [listing exceptions not relevant here], 945.4 [requiring
presentation of claims]; see also Munoz v. State of California (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1767, 1776.) The failure to timely file a proper government claim
is fatal to the maintenance of a civil action against a public entity. (Hernandez
v. City of Stockton (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1222, 1230–31.) 
Here, there are three
grounds for granting the motion. First, Kohan Darvish does not plead compliance
with the claims presentation requirement anywhere in the FAC. Second, defendant
submits the declaration of Michael Valdivia who states he is a is a duly
appointed Deputy City Clerk for the City of Los Angeles. (Valdivia Decl., ¶1.)
He is charged with the filing of all claims against the City and is familiar
with its records. He provides that after a diligence search, defendant Kohan
Darvish did not serve a claim for damages. (Valdivia Decl., ¶2) Third, Kohan
Darvish brings her claim in her individual capacity, not on behalf of the
estate, and thus, must present her own separate claim from decedent. (See Lewis
v. City and County of San Francisco (1971) 21 Cal.App.3d 339, 342 [heirs
could not rely on decedents claims letter for wrongful death claim].)
Thus, the motion is
granted because plaintiff has not complied with the claims presentation
requirement. 
Leave to Amend
The question remains
whether the court should grant leave to amend. Defendant argues that plaintiff
cannot correct the deficiency of the claims presentation requirement because
the time to file a claim has lapsed.
Claims for death or personal
injury must be presented “not later than six months after the accrual of the
cause of action.” (Gov. Code, §911.2.) “When a claim that is required by Section 911.2 to be
presented not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action is
not presented within that time, a written application may be made to the public
entity for leave to present that claim.” (Gov. Code § 911.4, subd. (a).) The
application must be presented within a reasonable time not to exceed one year
after the accrual of the cause of action. (Gov. Code § 911.4, subd. (b).) 
It is unclear what type
of claim plaintiff brings, e.g., loss of consortium and/or wrongful death. “The
cause of action for loss of consortium ‘arises out of the bodily injury to the
spouse who can no longer perform the spousal functions. It is the loss of
conjugal fellowship, affection, society and companionship which gives rise to
the cause of action.’ ” (Leonard v. John Crane, Inc. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1274, 1288.) A “claim for loss of consortium could not come into
existence until the defendant's negligent conduct causes the plaintiff actual
and appreciable harm.” (Id. at p. 1289.) The claim for wrongful death,
necessarily accrues on the date of the death. 
Here, on November 6,
2022, decedent was gravely injured, and Kohan Darvish’s cause of action for
loss of consortium accrued. (See Leonard, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at p.
1288.) Accounting for the six months claims presentation requirement, her time
to file a claim expired on May 6, 2023. On July 8, 2023, decedent passed away
and Kohan Darvish’s claim for wrongful death accrued. She had until January 8, 2024,
to file a claim. Assuming Kohan Darvish had some kind of grounds for a late
application for the later claim, she had until July 8, 2024, to file a claim
for wrongful death. (See Gov. Code, §911.4.) 
The City submits a
declaration from Valdivia dated May 28, 2024, stating that Kohan Darvish had
failed to submit a claim. That still leaves 40 days during which Kohan Darvish may
have timely applied to file a late claim. The court cannot conclude based on
the evidence that Kohan Darvish did not timely remedy the claims presentation
issue. 
Accordingly, the motion
is granted with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                                        Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107,
Van Nuys
September 12, 2024                                                                Los Angeles County Superior Court