  Case Number:  23STCV02390    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, January 6, 2025
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV02390
CASE NAME:                        Immigrant Rights Defense Co. v. Sonia I. Zaldivar
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Sonia I. Zaldivar
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense
Council, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Third Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        20 December 2024
REPLY:                                  27 December
2024
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s demurrer to the TAC is overruled. Defendant’s
Motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. The court denies
Defendant’s motion to strike the TAC in its entirety and grants the motion to
strike Paragraph 21(n), Exhibit 5, and the word “spoliated” in Paragraph 17,
line 23 with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to
amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for January 24, 2025, at
8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This is a dispute
arising from Defendant Sonia I. Zaldivar’s (“Zaldivar”) operating as an
Immigration Consultant in California. Plaintiff, Immigrant Rights Defense
Council, LLC, (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant has operated as an
Immigration Consultant not in conformity with the Immigration Consultants Act
of California (“ICA”). 
 
Plaintiff brings this
claim for an injunction on behalf of the general public as authorized by
Business and Professions Code § 22446.5(a).¿ Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
has violated multiple provisions of the ICA and as such Plaintiff is
entitled to obtain an injunction on behalf of the general public.¿¿
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging a single cause of action for
injunctive relief for violation of the Immigration Consultant Act (“ICA”). Plaintiff
filed a Doe amendment, adding Z Legal Services Inc. (“Z Legal”) as a defendant.

 
After Defendant moved
for summary judgment, on its own motion, the court reconsidered its November
15, 2023, Order denying Z Legal’s motion to quash the Doe amendment, rendering
the motion for summary judgment moot. The court also granted Plaintiff leave to
add Defendant Z Legal as a new Defendant. 
 
On September 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging
the same a single cause of action for injunctive relief for violation
of ICA. Defendant Z Legal was added as a new defendant, but no proof of service
upon Z Legal has been filed with the court. 
 
Defendant Zaldivar has filed a demurrer
and seeks to strike the TAC. Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c),
(d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of a document is not the
same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular
interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S.
Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d
369, 374.)
 
Defendant Zaldivar requests judicial notice of the following:

 
Exhibit A: a true and correct copy of the Transcript
of Court’s Ruling on Defendant’s Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike the First
Amendment Complaint (FAC).
 
Exhibit B: a true and correct copy of the Court’s
Ruling on Defendant’s Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike the First Amended
Complaint (FAC). 
 
Exhibit C: a true and correct copy of the Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
Exhibit D: a true and correct copy of the Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
Exhibit F: a true and correct copy of the Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint (SAC).
 
Exhibit G: a true and correct copy of the Date and
Time of Filing of Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Exhibit H: a true and correct copy of the Transcript
of Hearing on Demurrer and Motion to Strike the Second Amended Complaint.
Exhibit I: a true and correct copy of Ruling on
Demurrer and Motion to Strike the Second Amended Complaint, dated August 8,
2023. 
 
Exhibit J: a true and correct copy of the AB 1159
Legislative History of Immigration Consultant Act. 
 
Exhibit K: a true and correct copy of the Business and
Professions Code §22446.5 with Suggested Form Pleading that Contains CCP
§526(a) Pleading Allegations.
 
Exhibit L:  a
true and correct copy of the Defendant’s Immigration Bond. 
 
Exhibit M: a true and correct copy of the Secretary of
State’s Acknowledgment of Immigration Bond. 
 
Exhibit R: a true and correct copy of the Public
Portal Printout from LASC Website.
 
Exhibit S: a true and correct copy of the Defendant’s
Request for Admissions, Set One, Propounded on March 13, 2023.
 
Exhibit T: a true and correct copy of the Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Response to Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One, Served on
June 13, 2023.
 
Exhibit U: a true and correct copy of the Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Propounded on March 13, 2023.
 
Exhibit V: a true and correct copy of the Plaintiff’s
Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Served on April 14, 2023 [as to
SPROGS 4 and 5).
 
Exhibit W: a true and correct copy of Ruling on
Defendant Z Legal Services Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Which Authorized
an Amendment to add Defendant Z Legal Services, dated September 13, 2024.
 
Exhibit X: a true and correct copy of Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Propounded On March 13, 2023.
 
Exhibit Y: a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s
Response to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Served on April 14, 2023.
 
Exhibit Z: a true and correct copy of the Minute Order
on Defendant Sonia Zaldivar’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike the Second Amended
Complaint. 
 
Exhibit AA: a true and correct copy of the Minute
Order on Defendant Z Legal Services, Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Dated
September 23, 2024. 
 
Exhibit BB: a true and correct copy of the Minute
Order Nunc Pro Tunc on Defendant Z Legal Services, Inc’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, Dated September 23, 2023.
Exhibit  CC: a
true and correct copy of the Transcript of the Hearing on Defendant Z Legal
Services, Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
Exhibit EE: a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
 
Exhibit FF: a true and correct copy of the hearing on
Defendant Z Legal Services, Inc’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
 
Exhibit GG: a true and correct copy of Amendment to
Complaint.
 
Judicial notice of Exhibits, H,
CC, and FF are denied as because the relevant portions of the
transcripts are not highlighted, contain hearsay and controverted facts that
require formal proof and are not the proper subject for judicial notice. (See Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882.) 
 
Judicial notice of Exhibit K is
denied as Defendant fails to explain where she obtained the suggested form
pleading for Bus. & Prof. Code § 22446.5 and whether the form is the proper
subject for judicial notice. Nor does the form suggest that CCP § 526(a) applies
to Bus. & Prof. Code § 22446.5. 
 
Defendant also fails to show that
the court may take judicial notice of Exhibit L, therefore the request
is denied. 
 
“It is true that a court may take
judicial notice of a party's admissions or concessions, but only in cases where
the admission “can not reasonably be controverted,” such as in answers to
interrogatories or requests for admission, or in affidavits and declarations
filed on the party's behalf.” (Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 485.) While Exhibits S,
T, U, V, X, and Y as these are discovery responses,
Defendant fails to explain how each of these exhibits are relevant to the
Motions at issue. (See American Cemwood Corp. v. American Home Assurance Co.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn. 7 [“Although a court may judicially
notice a variety of matters (Evid. Code, §¿450 et seq.), only relevant material
may be noticed.”] [italics original].)
 
Therefore, the request for
judicial notice of Exhibits S, T, U, V, X, and Y is denied. 
 
The court further overrules
Plaintiff’s objections to the request for judicial notices as it a broad
objection that fails to object to specific materials. 
 
On reply, Defendant seeks judicial notice of the
following: 
Exhibit HH: Minute
Order in IRDC v Young, Case Number 24STCV15196, dated September 24,
2024.
Exhibit II: CACI 455:
Statute of Limitations: Delayed Discovery. 
Exhibit HH is a trial court ruling in another case that has
no precedential value in this court and is improperly submitted as precedent.
This is beyond the scope of judicial notice and is legally improper. (See
Budrow v. Dave & Buster's of California, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
875, 884–885.) Exhibit II is irrelevant as the delayed discovery rule does not
apply to this action. Lastly, the court does not consider matters submitted on
reply. “Points raised for the first time in a reply brief will not be
considered.” (Malmstrom v. Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp. (1986)
187 Cal.App.3d 299, 320.) 
Accordingly,
request for judicial notice of Exhibits HH and II is denied.
The request for judicial notice
is granted as to Exhibits A to G, I, J, M, R, W, Z, AA, BB, EE, and GG. The
request for judicial notice is denied as to Exhibits H, K, L, S, T, U, V, X, Y, CC, and FF. 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿  
Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Amendments Without Leave of Court
 
Defendant alleges that Plaintiff improperly amended the TAC by
adding new allegations against Defendant Zaldivar that went beyond the court’s
September 13, 2024, Order that permitted Plaintiff to add Defendant Z Legal as
a new Defendant rather than a Doe Defendant. “The plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.” (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) 
 
While Plaintiff may have added new allegations to support the
single cause of action for violations of ICA, Plaintiff did not add a new cause
of action, and the allegations are within the scope of permitted amendment as
they added particularity to the ICA claim. Defendant fails to cite case law to
support the contention that the TAC should be dismissed due to Plaintiff adding
new allegations that support the cause of action already pled. 
 
The demurrer on this basis is overruled. 
 
B.        The TAC Is Not a Sham Pleading 
 
First, Defendant asserts that the demurrer to the TAC should be
sustained because the TAC includes allegations that were previously stricken.
(Demurrer, at p. 15.) While the court struck certain allegations and exhibits
from the SAC with leave to amend, Plaintiff did not timely amend and the
inclusion of these stricken allegations in the TAC violate the August 8, 2023,
Order such that the demurrer should be sustained.  
 
Plaintiff relies on authority that supports striking the offending
allegations in the TAC, but the cited authorities do not permit the court to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend. (See Ricard v. Grobstein,
Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 157,
161[“A trial court has authority to strike sham pleadings, or those not filed
in conformity with its prior ruling.”]; Janis v. California State Lottery
Com. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 824, 829 [accord].) 
The proper basis to object to the improperly included allegations
is by a motion to strike, not via demurrer. It is improper to strike a whole
cause of action pursuant to a motion to strike. (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave.
Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281.) 
Such challenges must be made by demurrer.  (Id.) Therefore, the demurrer will not
be sustained on the basis that the entire TAC should be stricken. 
 
Second, Defendant asserts the TAC violates the sham pleading
doctrine and the demurrer should be sustained. “[T]he policy against sham
pleading permits the court to take judicial notice of the prior pleadings and
requires that the pleader explain the inconsistency. If he fails to do so the
court may disregard the inconsistent allegations and read into the amended
complaint the allegations of the superseded complaint.” (Owens v. Kings
Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 384.) “Plaintiffs therefore may avoid
the effect of the sham pleading doctrine by alleging an explanation for the
conflicts between the pleadings.” (Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014)
230 Cal.App.4th 336, 344.) The purpose of the sham pleading doctrine is to
prevent the abuse of process but it is “‘not intended to prevent honest
complainants from correcting erroneous allegations ... or to prevent correction
of ambiguous facts.’ [Citation.]” (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 408, 426 (Deveny).)  
 
Defendant asserts the TAC is a sham pleading because the “TAC omit
allegations fatal to the First Cause of Action; they add ultimate facts where
no ultimate facts existed, and adds ultimate facts which contradict other
ultimate facts in the original Complaint.” (Demurrer, at p. 15:23-25.)
 
A specific allegation that Defendant asserts is a sham pleading is
alleging that Z Legal was a Doe 1 in the SAC and then adding that Z Legal as a
new defendant in the TAC. On September 13, 2024, the court recognized it erred in
permitting Defendant Z Legal to be added as a Doe defendant because Z Legal did
not exist at the time the original Complaint was filed. Accordingly, the court
granted Plaintiff leave to add Z Legal as new defendant because the statute of
limitations had not yet run. (See Order 09/13/2024 at pp. 6-7.) Adding Z Legal as a new Defendant rather than alleging it
is Doe 1 is an allegation that has an explanation and is not a sham pleading. 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff posits that because the Doe 1 amendment was
quashed for failing to comply with CCP § 474, the amendment was void and “the
sham pleading doctrine cannot apply here because, by virtue of the DOE
substitution being quashed, Defendant Z Legal was not named in the SAC as DOE 1
or otherwise.” (Opp. at pp. 5:24-6:2.) As the Doe amendment was quashed, the
amendment is void and the Doe 1 substitution never occurred. “If the terms of
Code of Civil Procedure section 474 have not been complied with, the purported
defendant has not been named as such in the complaint.” (Maier Brewing Co.
v. Flora Crane Service, Inc. (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 873, 875.)
 
The court fails to see how now that Defendant Z Legal has been
added as a new defendant, the allegations made against Doe 1 are inconsistent.
The TAC continues to allege that Does 1 to 5 are employees who failed to submit
a background check to the Secretary of State. (TAC, ¶ 21(f).) The TAC
identifies Defendant Z Legal as an agent of Defendant Zaldivar and continues to
assert that Defendant Zaldivar uses the corporate entity to violate the ICA.
(TAC, ¶ 5.) The TAC further alleges that Defendant Z Legal is the corporate
alter ego of Defendant Zaldivar. (Id. ¶ 3.) That Plaintiff was mistaken
in alleging that Defendant Z Legal was Doe 1 does not mean Plaintiff cannot
correct the error, nor that the court must strike the entire TAC when the court
authorized Plaintiff to correct its error. 
 
 
Defendant further asserts that the TAC is a sham pleading because
it omitted the allegation that Defendants failed to maintain a bond of
$100,000.00 as pled in the original Complaint. However, the TAC continues to
allege that Defendants have not complied with the bond requirement: 
 

“In addition, Defendant Z Legal is not bonded or registered
     as an immigration consultant business.” (TAC, ¶ 20.) 
“Defendants, in addition to the conduct set forth above,
     have, on information and belief, engaged in the following conduct . . .
     (n) failing to maintain a bond of $100,000 for all immigration
     consultants, identified herein as DOES 1 through 5, employed at
     Defendants’ business. Moreover, Defendant Ms. Zaldivar, herself, was
     unbonded for 17 years from 2000-2017. (o) Advertising as an immigration
     consultant without maintaining the abovementioned bond.” 

 
The court fails to find that above allegations related to the bond
requirement violate the sham pleading doctrine. 
 
Defendant Zaldivar attempted to provide evidence that she complied
with the bond requirement. (O’Hara Decl., Ex. M, L.) Exhibit L is a letter from
Merchant’s Bonding Company and Defendant fails to show that this is a type of
document of which the court can take judicial notice.  Exhibit M is from the California Secretary of
State website merely stating that Defendant “Sonia I. Zaldivar” doing business
as “Z Legal Services.”  
 
Even if Defendant could show that all Defendants have complied
with the Bond requirement or are excused from complying, the demurrer could not
be sustained as it fails to dispose of the entire ICA claim. “A demurrer cannot
rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of
damage or remedy.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047.) That Defendant can show that certain
provisions of ICA were not violated does not mean that other provisions of ICA
were also not violated, and that Plaintiff cannot show any violation of the
ICA. 
 
Defendant further asserts that certain ICA violations alleged in
the SAC and certain allegations related to Paragraph 19 in the SAC are omitted
from the TAC because Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s discovery responses to
find there are no violations of those provisions. (Demurrer, at p. 19:10-23.)
Defendant asserts that this is a sham pleading because said disproved
allegations were omitted from the TAC, but Defendant fails to cite any legal
authority that requires Plaintiff to continue to include disproven facts in
subsequent pleadings. Moreover, Defendant fails to show that the allegations
and purported ICA violations that remain in the TAC are materially inconsistent
with the allegations in the previous pleadings and that the inconsistencies are
without explanation. (See Deveny, supra, 139 Cal.App.4th at p.
426 [sham pleading doctrine does not prevent correction of erroneous allegation
or prevent the correction of ambiguous facts].
Defendant also asserts that because the original Complaint was
devoid of facts and the demurrer sustained, the TAC itself is a sham pleading: 
 
In Davaloo v State
Farm, 37 Cal.Rptr.3d 528 (2005), the Court of Appeals ruled on the legal
effect of an amended complaint that had been filed after the original
complaint. The original complaint had been conclusory, generic, and devoid of
specific factual allegations. Id. The Court of Appeals described the
amended complaint as a “sham” pleading. Id. Accordingly, the amended
complaint could not cure its defects because the original compliant violated
CCP §425.10.
 
(Demurrer,
at pp. 20-21 [bold original].) 
 
Davaloo v. State Farm (2005)
stands for the proposition that the courts “compare the factual allegations in
the original and amended complaint” to determine “whether an amended complaint
should be deemed filed as of the date of the original pleading.” (Davaloo,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at pp. 415-416.) “An amended complaint relates
back to a timely filed original complaint, and thus avoids the bar of the
statute of limitations, only if it rests on the same general set of facts and
refers to the same ‘offending instrumentalities,’ accident and injuries as the
original complaint.” (Id. p. 415.) Here, the statute of limitations for
ICA has not yet accrued and the relation back doctrine is not at issue.
Therefore, Davaloo is not applicable and does not support Defendant’s
proposition that the TAC cannot be properly amended, and the demurrer must be
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
As Defendant fails to show that the TAC is a sham pleading, the
demurrer is on this basis is overruled. 
 
C.        The
TAC Does Not Lack Specificity and Is Not Devoid of Ultimate Facts
 
Defendant
demurs to the TAC by asserting the TAC is devoid of ultimate facts and because
ICA is a statutory violation, it requires violations to be pled with
specificity. 
 
While
Defendant alleges that the TAC fails to allege ultimate facts, Defendant fails
to explain what ultimate facts are missing from the TAC. Paragraph 21 of the
TAC sets out the specific ICA violations Defendant Zaldivar violated. As to the
specific date, and how many times Defendant Zaldivar violated each specified
ICA provision, those specific facts are yet to be discovered and if known, are
known only by the Defendant. “Under this doctrine of less particularity, less
specificity is required in pleading matters of which the defendant has superior
knowledge.” (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028.) “A
plaintiff ‘need not particularize matters ‘presumptively within the knowledge
of the demurring defendant. [Citations.]’ [Citation.] This includes matters
such as a defendant's knowledge or notice or intent.” (Thomas v. Regents of
University of California (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 611.) 
 
An
ultimate fact “‘refers to a core fact, such as an element of a claim or
defense, without which the claim or defense must fail.’” (People v. ConAgra Grocery
Products Co. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 51, 82.) Here, Defendant fails to
identify which ultimate facts are missing from the TAC that makes the ICA claim
fail as a matter of law.  “What is
important is that the complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts to apprise
the defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief.” (Perkins
v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)
 
Having
read the TAC, the court fails to find that TAC is devoid of ultimate facts and
is conclusory and uncertain. The demurrer on this basis is overruled. 
 
D.        Request for Injunctive Relief is Properly Pled
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s claim for injunctive relief
fails because the Complaint fails to allege irreparable harm. The court
previously explained that Plaintiff’s right to injunctive relief stems from the
ICA and not CCP § 526. (5/18/2023 Order at p. 6.) Consequently, Plaintiff is
not required to show irreparable injury. 
In Paul v. Wadler (1962) 209 Cal.App.2d 615, 26 Cal.Rptr. 341, the court borrowed half of the aforementioned federal rule and
held that, “irreparable injury need not be shown in cases involving a preliminary injunction,
where the injunction is authorized by statute, and the statutory conditions are
satisfied. [Citations.]” [Citation.] Here we borrow the remainder of the
federal rule and hold that inadequacy of a remedy at law need not be shown to obtain injunctive relief authorized by
statute [] where the statutory conditions for issuance are satisfied.


(In re Marriage of Van Hook (1983)
147 Cal.App.3d 970, 985 [italics added] [foot note omitted].)
 
Here, the TAC alleges that Defendants violated Bus. & Prof.
Code § 22441(d) by engaging in the unauthorized practice of the law. (TAC. ¶
14.) Unauthorized practices include advising “customers as to which forms to
use to receive the appropriate benefits, whether those benefits involve an
adjustment of status from a temporary status to a permanent lawful status, or
some other benefit, such as citizenship or a hardship waiver in the case of
unlawful status.” (Ibid.) The TAC further alleges that Defendants
continue to violate Bus. & Prof. Code § 22442.3(c)(1) by not including a
clear and conspicuous statement that they are not attorneys in Instagram
advertising. (Id., 16-19, Ex. 2-8.) 
 
Accordingly, the court finds that by alleging that Defendants
violated ICA, Plaintiff has alleged the public is harmed as the purpose of ICA
is to protect consumers, thus Plaintiff is not required to allege a personal
injury. (See Mendoza v. Ruesga (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 270, 279.)
Moreover, Bus. & Prof. Code § 22446.5(b) has a
broader application than Bus. & Prof. Code 22446.5(a) because it confers
standing to enforce ICA on:
 
Any other party who, upon
information and belief, claims a violation of this chapter has been committed
by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action for injunctive relief on
behalf of the general public and, upon prevailing, shall recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs.


(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 22446.5(b).) 
 
As
stated by this court in its September 19, 2024, Order: 
 
The fact that Plaintiff is not
an aggrieved party, does not mean that Plaintiff cannot discover ICA
violations. To find otherwise and accept Z Legal’s interpretation, would
produce absurd consequences because it would make Section 22446.5 subdivisions
(b) and(c) effectively void by depriving “[a]ny other party” and “[t]he
Attorney General, a district attorney, or a city attorney” of standing to bring
an ICA action. When interpreting a statute, “ ‘[w]e do not examine that
language in isolation, but in the context of the statutory framework as a whole
in order to determine its scope and purpose and to harmonize the various parts
of the enactment. If the language is clear, courts must generally follow its
plain meaning unless a literal interpretation would result in absurd
consequences the Legislature did not intend.’ ” (Meda v. Autozone, Inc.
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 366, 378 [internal citation and quotation marks
omitted].)
 
Therefore, because Z Legal was
incorporated on February 3, 2023, the four-year statute of limitations
articulated in Bus. & Prof. Code section 22448 has not yet run, and
Plaintiff may amend the SAC to add Z Legal as a new defendant. 
 
(Order
9/13/2024 at pp. 6-7.) 
 
E.        The
TAC is Not Barred by the Statute of Limitations
 
Defendant
further alleges that the TAC makes references to events that are barred by the four-year
statute of limitations. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22448.) One offending
statement is the allegation stating: “Commencing in or around February 2023,
Defendant Ms. Zaldivar started operating her unlawful immigration consultant
enterprise via the Defendant Z Legal business entity.” (TAC, ¶ 3.) The court
fails to see how the above allegation shows that the TAC is barred by ICA’s four-year
statute of limitations or why the delayed discovery doctrine is applicable when
the statute of limitations has not yet accrued. 
 
The
second offending statement is the allegation that “Defendant Ms. Zaldivar,
herself, was unbonded for 17 years from 2000-2017.” (TAC, ¶ 21(n). While the
court agrees that that above allegation is time barred, that alone is not a
basis for sustaining a demurrer to the entire ICA cause of action. The proper
basis for objecting to the allegation is via a motion to strike, not a demurrer
as a demurrer cannot be sustained in part and must dispose of the entire cause
of action to be sustained. (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.) 
 
The
TAC further alleges that “[a]ll of the above-mentioned offenses were discovered
on or after February 2, 2023” and “Defendant Z Legal was incorporated after the
filing of this case and Defendants transition to using that business entity for
the above-described unlawful immigration legal services enterprise occurred
after the initial filing of this lawsuit.” (TAC, ¶ 23; see also SAC ¶ 22.)
Defendant fails to show that the TAC on its face is barred by the statute of
limitations. “‘A demurrer on the ground of the bar of the statute of
limitations will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily
barred.’” (Favila v. Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th
189, 224 [internal citations omitted].) “‘It must appear clearly and
affirmatively that, upon the face of the complaint and matters of which the
court may properly take judicial notice, the right of action is necessarily
barred.’ [Citations.]” (Ibid.) Defendant fails to show that TAC is
barred as pled. 
 
Defendant
also asserts that the allegations against Defendant Z Legal are not properly
pled. The TAC alleges that Defendant Z Legal is an alter-ego of Defendant
Zaldivar, an allegation Defendant does not challenge in this Motion. (TAC, ¶
3.) “An alter ego defendant has no separate primary liability to the plaintiff.
Rather, plaintiff's claim against the alter ego defendant is identical with
that claimed by plaintiff against the already-named defendant.” (Hennessey's
Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 135.)
Therefore, because Defendant Z Legal is the alter ego of Defendant Zaldivar,
Plaintiff is not required to allege which specific ICA violations Z Legal
violated, as Z Legal's liability stems from Defendant Zaldivar’s ICA violations
and abuse of the corporate form. 
 
The
demurrer on the basis that the TAC is barred by the statute of limitations is
overruled. 
 
F.        Objection
to Exhibit 5, Paragraph 14, Paragraph 18
 
Defendant
demurs to the entire TAC on the basis that Exhibit 5 is in Spanish without a
certified translation and is incorporated into Paragraph 18 of the TAC.
(Demurrer, at p. 26:23-27.) The demurrer based on the reference to Exhibit 5 in
Paragraph 18 is overruled as the proper procedure to object to this allegation
is via a motion to strike and not a demurrer. 
 
Defendant
contends that Bus. & Prof. Code § 22449(a) and (b) expressly permit
immigration consultants to provide services related to DACA, Adjustment of
Status, Family Petitions, NACARA, and Citizenship. (Demurrer, at p. 27:3-8.)
Consequently, Paragraph 14 of the TAC falsely alleges that immigration
consultants cannot provide such services. Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22449 states
in relevant part: 
 
(a) Immigration consultants,
attorneys, notaries public, and organizations accredited by the United States
Board of Immigration Appeals shall be the only individuals authorized to charge
clients or prospective clients fees for providing consultations, legal advice,
or notary public services, respectively, associated with filing an application
under the federal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program announced by
the United States Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012.
 
(b)(1) Immigration consultants,
attorneys, notaries public, and organizations accredited by the United States
Board of Immigration Appeals shall be prohibited from participating in
practices that amount to price gouging when a client or prospective client
solicits services associated with filing an application for deferred action for
childhood arrivals as described in subdivision (a).
 
(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 22449(a), (b).)
 
Nothing
in the TAC states that Defendants are accredited by the Board of Immigration
Appeals and can provide consultation pursuant to section 22449. Defendant
provides no fact that is judicially noticeable that would permit the court to
find that Defendant is accredited by the Board of Immigration Appeals. Defendants’
accreditation by the Board of Immigration Appeals remains a disputed issue of
fact, as well as whether Defendants can provide consultation regarding DACA and
other services. Therefore, whether Paragraph 14 makes false allegations is a
disputed issue of fact which this court will not adjudicate on demurrer. (Fremont,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 113-114.) Moreover,
even if Paragraph 14 made false allegations, a demurrer could not be granted
because it would fail to dispose of the entire ICA cause of action. (See PH
II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.)
Moreover, even if the allegation were true, it would not dispose of the entire
ICA claim and the demurrer must be overruled. 
 
Similarly,
Defendant alleges that Paragraph 17[2] of the TAC contains false
allegations stating: “Following receipt of this lawsuit, Defendant spoliated
the zlegalservices.com, entirely.” (TAC, ¶ 17.) 
 
On
August 8, 2023, the court ruled on Plaintiff’s motion for Terminating, Evidence
and/or Monetary Sanctions regarding the deletion of the website. After the
hearing, the court found that Defendant Zaldivar played no role in deleting the
website and denied Plaintiff’s motion. (Order 8/8/2023.) While the court agrees
that Paragraph 17 contains false allegations, the proper procedure to challenge
the allegation is by motion to strike and not by demurrer as a demurrer would
fail to dispose of the entire cause of action. 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer based on improper or false allegations is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike fails to comply with Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1322(a) which states: 
 
A notice of motion to strike a
portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken
except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action,
count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must be numbered consecutively.
 
Defendant fails to specify what specific portions of the TAC she
seeks to strike. The court nevertheless considers the Motion on the merits. 
 
In denying Defendant’s demurrer, the court outlined why the TAC
was not a sham pleading. Accordingly, the request to strike the TAC on the
basis that it is a sham pleading is denied. Defendant also asserts the TAC
violates the court’s August 8, 2023 Order, therefore the entire TAC should be
stricken. On August 8, 2023, the court ordered that Paragraph 15, lines 7 to 10
of the SAC be stricken with leave to amend. The relevant portions of Paragraph
15, lines 7 to 10 stated: 
On that page, Defendants detail
how they “solved” that customer’s problems and legalized her immigration status
and that of her family, despite the fact that immigration consultants are
expressly prohibited from “solving” the legal problems of their customers. 
 
(SAC, ¶ 15.) The court struck portions of the Paragraph 15 in the
SAC because Exhibit 2 did not state the alleged allegation as represented in
Paragraph 15. (Order 8/8/2023) The August 8, 2023, Order also struck Exhibit 1
of the SAC with leave to amend because the document was in Spanish but there
was no translation of Exhibit 1 certified under oath by a qualified interpreter,
as required by Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.1110(g). 
Plaintiff points out that because Exhibit 1 in the TAC is not the
same as Exhibit 1 in the SAC, no translation is needed. Accordingly, the court
finds that Defendant fails to provide a proper basis for striking Paragraph 15
and Exhibit 1 in the TAC. 
 
The August 8, 2023, Order court also struck Paragraph 9(t) of the
SAC at page 5, lines 1 to 12 and reference to “2443.3” on Paragraph 20(f) on
Page 9 line 22 in the SAC. (Order 8/8/2023.) 
Paragraph 9(t) in the SAC alleged:
 
That an immigration consultant
may not advertise themselves as a consultant without maintaining the
above-mentioned bond. Bus. & Prof Code § 22443.3.
 
(SAC, ¶ 9(f).) Defendant asserts that Paragraphs 10 and 21 in the
TAC refrences the above allegations in violation of the August 8, 2023, Order. 
 
Plaintiff states that Paragraph 9(t) in the SAC was a general
statement of law that should not have been stricken. Plaintiff maintains that
the allegations related to the bond requirement and references to Bus. &
Prof Code § 22443.3, as alleged in Paragraph 10(t) of the TAC, are relevant to
show the applicable law and support the allegation that Defendants advertised
services without a bond. 
 
That an immigration consultant
may not advertise themselves as a consultant without maintaining the
above-mentioned bond. Bus. & Prof Code § 22443.3.
 
(TAC, ¶ 10(t).) 
 
While Paragraph 10(t) of the TAC references Bus. & Prof Code §
22443.3, the court agrees the allegation refers to a general statement of law
that should not be stricken because Paragraph 10(t) is an accurate description
of the law as codified in § 22443.3, which requires that any person who
disseminates any statement that they are engaged in the business or acts in the
capacity of an immigration consultant have on file with the Secretary of State
a disclosure statement and bond. Therefore, the court agrees that it would be
improper to strike a general and correct statement of the law. 
 
The request to strike Paragraph 10(t) in the SAC and any references
to the bond requirement is denied. The request to strike Paragraph 14 is denied
because it presents triable issues of fact, as outlined above. 
 
The court finds that the allegation that “Defendant
Ms. Zaldivar, herself, was unbonded for 17 years from 2000-2017” should be
stricken because it references conduct that occurred long after the statute of
limitations passed.  (TAC, ¶ 21(n).
Plaintiff fails to explain why said allegation is relevant. The court strikes
Paragraph 21(n) from the TAC with leave to amend. 
 
The
court also agrees that Exhibit 5 and references to Exhibit 5 in Paragraph 19 of
the TAC should be stricken because there is no English translation of Exhibit 5
certified under oath by a qualified interpreter as
required by Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.1110(g). 
 
The court also agrees that the allegation related to spoliated
evidence, as contained in Paragraph 17 line 23, should be stricken because on
August 8, 2023, the court found that Defendant Zaldivar played no role in
deleting the website and denied Plaintiff’s motion. (Order 08/08/2023.) The
court strikes the word “spoliated” in Paragraph 17 with leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to strike is denied and granted in part. The court denies Defendant’s
motion to strike the TAC in its entirety and grants the motion to strike
Paragraph 21(n), Exhibit 5, and the word “spoliated” in Paragraph 17, line 23
with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the TAC is
overruled. Defendant’s Motion to strike is denied and granted in part. The
court denies Defendant’s motion to strike the TAC in its entirety and grants
the motion to strike Paragraph 21(n), Exhibit 5, and the word “spoliated” in
Paragraph 17, line 23 with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 10 days
leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for January 24,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.
 


