 Case Number:  23VECV04191    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  W DINO
BRADLEY V. JEMEKER THOMPSON-HAIRSTON, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANT JEMEKER
THOMPSON-HAIRSTON’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE AND DEFENDANT NETFLIX, INC.’S
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE AND DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 31, 2024                               Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04191
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff Dino Bradley aka
Raphael Quinn filed a complaint against Defendants Jemeker Thompson-Hairston,
David Ritz, and Netflix, Inc. for defamation and misappropriation of name or
likeness. Plaintiff alleges Defendants defamed him in the portrayal of “Dino”
on an episode of Drug Lords, streamed on Netflix. The complaint alleges
Defendants made him look like a “monster” and “an outright human clown” when Defendant
Thomson-Hairston knew he was not. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant Jemekar
Thompson-Hairston’s Motion to Quash Service is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant Netflix, Inc.’s
Special Motion to Strike Defamation and Misappropriation Claims is GRANTED.
Defendant Netflix’s Demurrer with Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Netflix, Inc., in
support of their Special Motion to Strike, requests this court take judicial
notice of excerpts of Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) filed by Netflix, Inc. for the
quarterly period ending September 30, 2023, with the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission. Defendant Netflix, Inc.’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT
JEMEKAR THOMPSON-HAIRSTON’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE 
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Jemeker
Thompson-Hairston moves the court for an order quashing Plaintiff’s purported
service of summons and complaint on Defendant on the grounds that the summons
and complaint were not properly served on Defendant.
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for
service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction.
[Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable
presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies with the
statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at 1441-1442.) When
a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if
there has not been proper service of process.” (See Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) 
 
Defendant Thompson-Hairston argues they were not
personally served and therefore, the purported service of summons and complaint
is not valid and should be quashed. Defendant testifies they were never
personally served and instead, Defendant did not discover the lawsuit against
them until September 30, 2023 when Defendant checked her P.O. Box.
(Thompson-Hairston Decl. ¶¶2, 3.) 
 
The court agrees the service is not code compliant.
There are four methods for serving a summons within the State of California
including mail by service. (See CCP §415.30.) However, a summons may be served
by mail to the person to be served, together with two copies of the notice and
acknowledgment and a return envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the sender.
(CCP §415.30(a).) Service of a summons pursuant to this section is deemed
complete on the date a written acknowledgement of receipt of summons is
executed, if such acknowledgement thereafter is returned to the sender. (CCP
§415.30(c).) There is no evidence the summons and complaint were mailed with
copies of the notice and acknowledgment. The proof of service is also completed
on the incorrect form. While the form is optional, the court cannot determine
Plaintiff’s compliancy with Code of
Civil Procedure section 415.30 on the form completed.
“Until statutory requirements are satisfied, the court lacks jurisdiction over
a defendant.” (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)

 
Accordingly,
Defendant Jemeker
Thompson-Hairston’s Motion to Quash Service is GRANTED. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANT
NETFLIX, INC.’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE DEFAMATION AND MISAPPROPRIATION CLAIMS
 
Defendant Netflix, Inc. moves
the court for an order striking all claims in the Complaint and dismissing them
with prejudice in their entirety, pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, on the grounds that both claims in the Complaint
arise from acts in furtherance of the right to free speech or petition arising
under the United States or California Constitution in a public issue and
Plaintiff cannot establish a probability of prevailing on his claims. Defendant
also seeks an award of attorney fees and costs upon the granting of Defendant’s
Special Motion to Strike. 
 
On
a special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
also known as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the initial burden to
demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. (Martinez
v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186;§ Fox
Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.)
First, the court must determine whether moving parties have made a prima facie
showing that the attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including
defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under a constitution, in
connection with issues of public interest. (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape
& Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law
Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; CCP § 425.16(e).)
 
If
the court finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the cause of action
unless the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim. (CCP §425.16(b)(1); Balzaga v. Fox News Network,
LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.) This means that the plaintiff must
state a legally sufficient claim and must then present evidence that
substantiates or sustains the claim. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson v. Parker, Covert &
Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited”].)
 
I.                   
Defendant Netflix, Inc.’s Burden
 
The
court finds Defendant Netflix, Inc. has made a threshold showing that the
challenged cause of action arises from protected activity. An act in
furtherance of a person's right to petition or free speech under the United
States Constitution or California Constitution includes “(1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)
 
In
the instant matter, the conduct Plaintiff complains of is Defendant used
Plaintiff’s name in the Netflix story about Jemeker Thompson-Hairston’s life. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges Thompson-Hairston and Netflix defamed, lied, and slandered
the character of Plaintiff by portraying Plaintiff as a “monster, gun toting
fool, and outright human clown” without any personal dignity or regard for
human life. The court finds that Plaintiff’s claims arise from Defendants’
speech and conduct in streaming an episode of the show “Drug Lords” about Defendant
Thompson-Hairston’s life. As noted by Defendant, “[t]he creation of a
television show is an exercise of free speech.” (Tamkin v. CBS Broadcasting,
Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 133, 143.) In Tamkin, the Court of
Appeal found that “the creation and broadcasting of [television show] CSI
episode 913 is an issue of public interest because the public was demonstrably
interested in the creation and broadcasting of that episode, as shown by the
posting of the casting synopses on various Web sites and the ratings for the
episode.” (Id. at 143.) Moreover, California Courts have recognized
that “an issue of public interest” for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute is
any issue in which the public is interested.¿ (Nygard, Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1042, italics in original (Nygard).)¿
“In other words, the issue need not be ‘significant’ to be protected by the
anti-SLAPP statute—it is enough that it is one in which the public takes an
interest.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿Here, the allegations relate to Defendant Thompson-Hairston,
who was a notorious drug dealer, and the brief segment relating to “Dino”, an
associate of Defendant Thompson-Hairston. As such, the episode involves a
matter of public interest, namely, Defendant Thompson-Hairston, the 1980’s
crack epidemic, and the impact of drugs on local communities. 
 
In
sum, Defendant Netflix, Inc. has met their burden of showing their conduct
arose from protected activity. 
 
II.                 
Plaintiff Bradley’s Burden
 
On
the second component of the analysis, courts employ a “summary-judgment-like”
procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and
evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has
defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) In other words, the court does not assess credibility,
and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the evidence
standard.  The court accepts as true the
evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his or her
claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at 291.) 
 
Defendant
Netflix, Inc. claims Plaintiff Bradley cannot meet the second prong because Plaintiff’s
claims are barred by the statute of limitations, Plaintiff has not established
they are “Dino”, and Plaintiff cannot allege facts sufficient to support a
claim for defamation or misappropriation. 
 
The court agrees. Defamation
claims are subject to a one-year statute of limitations. (CCP §340(c).)
Moreover, misappropriation claims involving one taking advantage of another's likeness
for commercial advantage      are subject
to the two-year statute of limitations pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 339. The episode focusing on Defendant Thompson-Hairston was initially
released on July 10, 2018. (Victoria Decl. ¶ 4.) The instant action was filed
on September 21, 2023, five years after the episode was released. Since both
claims are based upon the references to “Dino” in the episode, both claims are
time-barred. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff cites
to CACI No. 454 concerning the delayed discovery rule generally and claims he
was in jail from 2017 to 2022. However, there is no admissible evidence before
the court that there was a delay in actually discovering the episode. Moreover,
as noted by Defendant, a “single publication rule” governs claims of
defamation. (Shively v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1249.) Similarly,
the single publication rule also governs claims for appropriation of a
likeness. (Long v. Walt Disney Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 868. 873.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has
failed to establish they are “Dino” or all the elements of their defamation and
misappropriation claims. Plaintiff’s bare assertion he is “Dino” is not
admissible evidence. There is no declaration or affidavit along with Plaintiff’s
exhibits. Moreover, Plaintiff does not provide any admissible evidence that the
assertion that there was a gun in the vehicle, which led to the limousine being
pulled over and Plaintiff’s arrest, is false or not substantially true. 
 
Therefore,
the court finds that Plaintiff Bradley has failed to meet their burden of
showing that there is a probability that he will prevail on their defamation or
misappropriation of name and likeness claims. 
 
Defendant
requests that should it prevail on this motion, the court set this matter for a
full hearing and make an award of attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant to these
mandatory provisions. Defendant may
file a separate motion for attorney fees. “[A]ny SLAPP defendant who brings a
successful motion to strike is entitled to mandatory attorney fees.”  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1122, 1131 see CCP § 425.16(c).)
 
III.               
DEFENDANT
NETFLIX, INC.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF DINO BRADLEY’S COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO
STRIKE PRAYERS FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
Defendant Netflix, Inc. demur
to all claims contained in the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Dino Bradley
against it and moves to strike the prayer for relief for punitive damages and
all associated allegations. Because the court grants the Defendant’s Special
Motion to Strike Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16, Defendant’s demurrer
with motion to strike is MOOT.  