  Case Number:  23VECV00827    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  W SOFIA
VELAZQUEZ vs KIA AMERICA, INC.
 
plaintiff’s MOTIONs
TO COMPEL KIA AMERICA, INC. TO PRODUCE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE and SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
ONe
 
Date of Hearing:        January
31, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00827
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Sofia Velazquez 
Responding Party:     Defendant Kia America, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff
Sofia Velazquez purchased a 2021 Kia Sorento manufactured and/or distributed by
Defendant. Plaintiff alleges after Plaintiff took possession of the Vehicle and
during the warranty period, the Vehicle contained or developed defects
including an engine defect. Plaintiff further alleges Defendant failed to
service or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Kia
America, Inc. to Produce Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED with limitations.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Kia
America, Inc. to Produce Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories Set One is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
TO COMPEL KIA AMERICA, INC. TO PRODUCE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Plaintiff Sofia Velazquez moves the
court for an order compelling Defendant Kia America, Inc. to serve further,
substantive responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production Nos. 12, 13, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, and 39 on the grounds that Kia has
failed to provide adequate responses to Plaintiff’s Requests, which seek
documents directly relevant to Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
claims.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a)
provides that if, on receiving responses to an inspection demand, a propounding
party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or inadequate, or that an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response. A motion for further responses to requests for production
must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought. (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) To establish good cause, a discovery
proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action
and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact.  (Digital Music News LLC v. Sup. Ct. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
216, 224, overruled on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 557, fn. 8.)  However, this burden is not an onerous one:
the burden to show good cause for production “is met simply by a fact-specific
showing of relevance.”  (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)   
 
RFPs 12, 13, 17 and 21 seek information
related to Kia’s policies and procedures for handling breach of warranty
claims; and RFPs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, and 39 seek information related to
Kia’s knowledge regarding the existence of similar engine-related defects in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. According to
Plaintiff, both of these categories of documents are relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims and are the proper subject of discovery requests on the grounds whether
a manufacturer has written policies on Song-Beverly’s requirement to repair or replace
vehicles is relevant to the determination of whether the award of a civil
penalty is appropriate and information regarding similar defects in other
vehicles is the proper subject of an inquiry regarding a manufacturer’s willful
failure to repurchase a vehicle.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues other
vehicle discovery is not relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence and are facially overbroad, vague, unduly
burdensome and grossly disproportionate to the needs of the case, seeking
countless proprietary and confidential documents without any relevance to the
action. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff notes Defendant has
complied in part with some of Plaintiff’s requests for further responses to
requests and therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is
withdrawn with respect to Requests for Production Nos. 12, 13, 17, and 21;
however, KIA does not have grounds for its continuing refusal to produce
relevant documents and responses to RFP Nos. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 38, and 39. 
 
The court finds good cause for the
requested discovery. Based on Plaintiff’s allegations regarding engine defects
in the subject vehicle, Plaintiff is entitled to discovery which is probative
of Defendant’s knowledge of such defects in Plaintiff’s 2021 Kia Sorento
vehicles, including in vehicles other than the subject vehicle. (Donlen v.
Ford Motor Company (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 143-44, 154-55 [evidence
pertaining to defects in same model transmission in vehicles other than subject
vehicle is relevant to Song-Beverly claim]; Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 973-74, 993 [evidence pertaining to similar problem
in other vehicles other than subject vehicle are highly relevant].)  However, the court agrees with defendant that
the relevant set of documents includes only complaints related to 2021 Kia
Sorento vehicles sold/leased in California for the relevant time period (2021
until the date of purchase) where the vehicle allegedly experienced the same
(or substantially similar) concerns/fault that Plaintiff’s vehicle experienced.

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Kia America, Inc. to Produce Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, with limitations. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
TO COMPEL KIA AMERICA, INC. TO PRODUCE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE 
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order
compelling Defendant Kia America, Inc. to serve further, substantive responses
to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories 16, 17, 18, and 19 on the grounds that
Kia has failed to provide adequate responses to Plaintiff’s Requests, which
seek information directly relevant to Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act claims. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300 (a) provides that if, on receiving responses to interrogatories, a
propounding party deems that responses are evasive or incomplete or that an
objection is without merit or too general, that party may move for an order
compelling a further response.

 
Plaintiff argues the interrogatories
sought will aid the jury in determining whether to award a civil penalty are:
(1) whether the manufacturer knew the vehicle had not been repaired within a
reasonable period or after a reasonable number of attempts; and (2) whether the
manufacturer had a written policy on the requirement to repair or replace. (Kwan
v. Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174,
184.) Specifically, Special Interrogatories 18 and 19 seek information related
to Kia’s policies and procedures for handling breach of warranty claims; and Special
Interrogatories 16 and 17 seek information related to Kia’s knowledge re: the existence
of similar suspension defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the Subject Vehicle.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
Interrogatories are compound, facially overbroad, vague, irrelevant, unduly burdensome,
and grossly disproportionate to the needs of this case as well as seek the
contents of countless proprietary and confidential documents without any
relevance to this Action. Defendant contends in effect, the interrogatories
call for disclosure of documents and matters so remote from the subject matter
of this Action (Plaintiff’s vehicle) as to make their disclosure of little or
no practical benefit to Plaintiff, and have no bearing on the case at hand. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff notes KIA has
complied in part with some of Plaintiff’s requests for further responses to
requests seeking evidence of KIA’s policies and procedures regarding its
compliance with Song-Beverly (SROG No. 18 and 19). As such, Plaintiff only
seeks further responses from SROG Nos. 16 and 17. The court agrees information
regarding similar defects in other vehicles is relevant to this action. As
noted by Plaintiff, the interrogatories will help show whether Kia willfully
failed to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Kia America, Inc. to Produce Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.