 Case Number:  24SMCV01902    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP’s Special Motion to Strike Complaint of Plaintiff Scott Warren, Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust, Pursuant to C.C.P. § 426.15 is GRANTED.Defendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order striking the claim against them in Plaintiff Scott Warren, Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust (“Plaintiff”)’s complaint on the ground that the claim arises from protected activity, as the claim is for malicious prosecution, and Plaintiff is not likely to succeed on the merits of his claim because he cannot show an absence of probable cause, and there is no evidence or reasonable inference that Defendants litigated the underlying action with actual malice. Plaintiff opposes the motion on the ground that at least one cause of action was brought without probable cause, and malice can be implied.At the outset, the Court notes that it previously granted a special motion to strike brought by Defendants Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC, David W. Baer, and Sabina Sadykhova, and Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of this ruling on October 14, 2024. It is axiomatic that an appeal from an order denying a special motion to strike automatically stays all further proceedings on the merits upon the causes of action affected by the motion. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 194.) While the cause of action against Defendants is intertwined with the claims against the other defendants, Plaintiff has brought separate causes of action against all defendants, such that the Court cannot conclude that the appeal of the prior motion affects this separate cause of action, such that there is no basis to conclude that this motion is stayed.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendants request judicial notice of 28 court records from the present action and Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCV26316 (Warren v. Warren). Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).Plaintiff requests judicial notice of 6 court records from the present action and Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCV26316 (Warren v. Warren). Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).Factual BackgroundPlaintiff Scott Warren is the Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust and is the son of Martin Warren (“Martin”) and Defendant Bessie Ellen Warren (“Bessie”). (Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that Martin and Bessie discussed a strategy for them to gift a percentage of their interests in certain apartment buildings to Lauri Shahar (“Lauri”), to Martin as trustee of the Hard Habit Trust, which had been formed for Bruce Warren (“Bruce”)’s benefit, and to Plaintiff, and the recipients would then transfer their interests into various LLCs. (Compl. ¶ 19.) This would allow the assets to be transferred without triggering a property tax reassessment and without triggering a gift tax obligation. (Compl. ¶ 20.) In October 2019, Bruce, Lauri, and Scott signed a written agreement that a condominium in Santa Monica would be given to Lauri, and Lauri would make payments to the trustee of the Hard Habit Trust and Scott within six months of the property being conveyed. (Compl. ¶ 32.) In 2020, Scott prepared paperwork for the conveyance, and Bruce, Lauri, and Scott agreed that Lauri was not required to make payments to Scott or the trust until Martin and Bessie died. (Compl. ¶ 35.) In December 2020, Martin and Bessie executed gift documents transferring their remaining interests in the LLCs to Martin as trustee, to Scott, and to Lauri. (Compl. ¶¶ 36-37.) In March 2022, a dispute arose about Lauri’s obligation to make payments as to the condominium, and Martin and Bessie allegedly took Lauri’s side against Scott and Bruce, demanding that they sign an agreement absolving Lauri of the obligation to make the payments. (Compl. ¶¶ 47-48, 53, 55.) On June 28, 2022, Martin and Bessie demanded that Bruce and Scott either start paying them $15,500 per month or convey their interests in the LLCs back to them. (Compl. ¶ 73.) On August 15, 2022, Defendants Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC, David W. Baer, and Sabina Sadykhova filed an action on behalf of Martin and Bessie against Bruce and Scott alleging that Bruce and Scott took unfair advantage of and tricked Martin and Bessie into conveying their interests in the LLCs by falsely promising that they would give them money upon request. (Compl. ¶¶ 71-72.) On May 9, 2023, Defendants Jonathan Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP associated into the case as attorneys for Martin and Bessie. (Compl. ¶ 100.) On August 2, 2023, the jury returned a verdict finding that Bruce was not liable for financial elder abuse or breach of contract (Compl. ¶ 106); Scott as an individual was not laible for financial elder abuse, breach of contract, fraud, or negligent misrepresentation (Compl. ¶ 107); and Scott as trustee was not liable for financial elder abuse (Compl. ¶ 108). On September 27, 2023, the Court issued a written ruling on the remaining issues and entered a judgment against Martin and Bessie. (Compl. ¶ 109.) Plaintiff now brings this action for malicious prosecution.Legal StandardThe California legislature has authorized a special motion to strike that may be filed in lawsuits that seek to “chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1), provides:A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.Accordingly, section 425.16 posits a two-step process for determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public participation (SLAPP). First, the Court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “A defendant meets this burden by demonstrating that the act underlying the plaintiff’s cause fits one of the categories spelled out in [section 425.16,] subdivision (e).” (Braun v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1043.) Those categories include “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).) If defendant makes a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a likelihood of prevailing on the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)First Prong: Claim Arising from Protected ActivityTo invoke Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, a defendant need only demonstrate that a suit arises from the defendant’s exercise of free speech or petition rights. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.) This is determined by “the gravamen or principal thrust of the action.” (See In re Episcopal Church Cases (2009) 45 Cal.4th 467, 477.) “In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech.” (City of Cotati v. Cashman, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 78.) “In making its determination, the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).)“A special motion to strike is particularly appropriate when the action sought to be stricken is one for malicious prosecution.” (Barak v. The Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 654, 659.) “By definition, a malicious prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a lawsuit.” (Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 735.) Here, Plaintiff’s claim against Defendants is based on litigation of Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCV26316 (Warren v. Warren) (“the underlying action”). This conduct falls within the purview of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e). Therefore, the Court finds Defendants have satisfied the first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute as to Plaintiff’s claim for malicious prosecution, as Plaintiff’s claim arises from protected activity.Second Prong: Plaintiff’s Likelihood of Prevailing on the Merits If the defendant makes a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a likelihood of prevailing on the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “In order to establish a probability of prevailing on the claim, a plaintiff responding to an anti-SLAPP motion must state and substantiate a legally sufficient claim.” (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821, superseded by statute on other grounds as noted in Hutton v. Hafif (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 527, 547, citation, quotation marks, and brackets omitted.) To do so, “the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Ibid., quotation marks omitted.) In considering whether a plaintiff’s claim has merit, “the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant,” and while “the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff’s attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) “To prevail on a malicious prosecution claim, the plaintiff must show that the prior action (1) was commenced by or at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with malice.” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 292 (Soukop).) It is beyond dispute that the underlying action was terminated in Plaintiff’s favor and that Defendants associated into the underlying action and acted as lead trial counsel. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 4, 47; Req. for Judicial Notice, Ex. 26.) Further, it is well established that “an attorney may be held liable for malicious prosecution for continuing to prosecute a lawsuit discovered to lack probable cause.” (Zamos v. Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 970). Thus, Plaintiff has satisfied the first element of proving its malicious prosecution claim.As for the second element, “[a] litigant will lack probable cause for his action either if he relies upon facts which he has no reasonable cause to believe to be true, or if he seeks recovery upon a legal theory which is untenable under the facts known to him.” (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at 292.) In the second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants knew or should have known that Martin was the trustee of the Hard Habit Trust until at least May 2022, they knew or should have known that the claims against Plaintiff lacked probable cause and there are was no legitimate basis for maintaining those claims, and Defendants failed to properly investigate because they did not want to give up the attorney fees they stood to earn from taking the case to trial. (Compl. ¶¶ 136-154.)Defendants provide evidence that Defendant Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC, who filed the complaint, did know that transfers had not been made to Bruce as an individual, rather than to the trust, because Martin and Bessie did not have the transfer documents, and they often used “Bruce” as shorthand for the trust that was made for Bruce’s benefit. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 16-19.) When Defendant Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC learned that LLC interests were held in the trust, it was apparent that the trustee was an essential party to the litigation. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶ 20.) Martin, Bessie, and Lauri provided a recollection of events about how the LLC ownership transfer took place (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 8-10, 42), and Defendant Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC pled reasonable and legally tenable claims based on the facts known to them at the time (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 9, 21, 42). Defendants concluded that Plaintiff could be liable for financial elder abuse as the trustee if the trust was wrongfully retaining Martin and Bessie’s LLC interests, and Defendant Hartog Baer Zabronsky, APC filed a Doe amendment to move the case forward quickly. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 16-20.) Defendants also note that Plaintiff made a motion for nonsuit at the close of Martin and Bessie’s case-in-chief during the jury trial, and the motion was denied, thereby indicating that it was a reasonable claim based on the facts. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶ 46.) Defendants also provide evidence that they had no personal animosity toward Plaintiff and had no reason to subjectively harbor any personal malice against him. (Mot., Wershow Decl. ¶¶ 11, 48-50.)Plaintiff’s discussion portion of the opposition to the motion largely consists of discussions of other cases without reference to evidence that would show a lack of probable cause. Plaintiff argues that if he had filed a motion for summary judgment, he would have won, but, notably, he did not do so. Plaintiff also argues that the motion for nonsuit was only denied as to financial elder abuse, but the transcript shows that the motion was made as to the claims against Plaintiff, not just one claim, even if the Court only referenced the financial elder abuse claim in its oral discussion. (Opp’n, Warren Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. 34, at 59:16-18.)Further, to demonstrate that Defendants litigated the underlying action with malice, Plaintiff must establish “actual ill will or some improper ulterior motive.” (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at 292, italics omitted.) Notably, “[m]alice may also be inferred from the facts establishing lack of probable cause.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated that Defendants litigated the action against Plaintiff with malice. Plaintiff provides only a conclusory statement that malice can be implied because the causes of action “could not possibly apply” (Opp’n, p. 8, l. 24), but this does not establish malice through reference to evidence. Plaintiff did not challenge the Doe amendment, and there is no evidence that Defendants had some ill will toward Plaintiff or an ulterior motive for filing the action against him. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not established the second and third elements of his malicious prosecution claim against Defendants, such that the Court finds that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate a likelihood of prevailing on its claim for malicious prosecution against Defendants. Accordingly, Defendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP’s Special Motion to Strike Complaint of Plaintiff Scott Warren, Trustee of the Hard Habit Trust, Pursuant to C.C.P. § 426.15 is GRANTED. Defendants Jonathan A. Wershow and Wershow & Cole LLP shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Attorney Fees Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c), provides that “a prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney’s fees and costs.” Under section 425.16, an award of fees and costs is mandatory. (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1131.) In that Defendants are the prevailing parties, they are entitled to their reasonable attorney fees and costs, the amount of which shall be determined upon Defendants filing a noticed motion for attorney fees and memorandum of costs.Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendants object to certain statements within the declaration of Bruce M. Warren. Defendants’ objections are SUSTAINED in their entirety.