 Case Number:  23AHCV02008    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER I.
INTRODUCTIONThis action concerns the alleged sale of two
commercial warehouses between Plaintiff Lightking America (“Lightking”) and
Defendants Ovoda, LLC (“Ovoda”); XHK Investment 3, LLC (“XHK”); and Zeming Qi
(“Qi”). Plaintiff alleges that on March 1, 2022, Defendant Ovoda sold
Plaintiff’s “Chino warehouse” despite not have the approval, nor authority to
do so. Plaintiff claims Defendant Qi signed the grant deed to Defendant Ovoda
on behalf of Plaintiff as an apparent CEO/CFO without (1) being the CEO or CFO
and without (2) any authority from Plaintiff Lightking, the sole shareholder. The
second warehouse was located in Rancho Cucamonga.  Consequently, on August 31, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative Complaint, alleging seven causes of action: (1) conspiracy
to defraud; (2) fraud; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) conversion; (5) unjust
enrichment; (6) common count: money had and received; and (7) negligence.
On November 8,
2023, XHK Investment answered Lightking’s complaint.
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s current attorney of record substituted into
this lawsuit.
On January 26, 2024, Defendant Ovoda sent a demurrer meet and
confer to Plaintiff Lightking.
           On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s
current attorney of record appeared before the Court for a case management
conference. Lightking then informed the Court that it would amend its complaint
and would need additional time to locate Defendant Zeming Qi. 
On or about February 1, 2024, Plaintiff Lightking informed Defendant
Ovoda that a demurrer was unnecessary because Plaintiff would amend its
complaint. Ovoda agreed that it would wait for Plaintiff to file an amended
complaint before filing a responsive pleading. 
On or about February 6, 2024, Defendant XHK informed Lightking that
XHK would need to review Lightking’s amended complaint before agreeing to a
stipulation for leave to amend. 
On or about March 4, 2024, Lightking drafted a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). Lightking subsequently postponed the filing of its amended complaint,
pending the production of additional documents that could require further
amendments to Lightking’s FAC. 
On March 6, 2024, Defendant Ovoda filed a demurrer to Lightking’s original
complaint. 
On March 22, 2024, Lightking and Ovoda discussed Ovoda’s demurrer.
The parties agreed in principle, pending further discussion, that once
Lightking’s motion for leave to amend is filed with the Court, Ovoda would move
its demurrer hearing date after the hearing date for the instant motion. Said
demurrer hearing has been moved to August 1, 2024. 
On
April 25, 2024, Plaintiff Lightking filed the instant motion, requesting the
Court grant Plaintiff Leave to file its FAC along with a Proposed Order, and
the Declaration of Plaintiff’s current attorney of record, Counsel Ian Li. 
Plaintiff
seeks leave from the court to make the following six amendments:
(1)  First, Lightking
included a ninth cause of action under Cal. Gov. Code § 12261. Section 12261
allows for the reinstatement of corporations that have been wrongfully
dissolved and the amendment was made because prior counsel did not include a
cause of action under Section 12261 to reinstate Lightking’s corporate status.
(Motion For Leave to Amend (“Mot.”), pg. 6)
(2)  Lightking
included a cause of action for quiet title. (Mot., pg. 7.)
(3)  The cause of
action for conspiracy to defraud was removed because it was pled on information
and belief. (Compl. ¶¶36 – 44.) For the same reason, the fraud cause of action
was modified and pled with additional specificity, and divided into two counts
of fraud, one for each warehouse. (Compl. ¶¶45 – 56; 1AC ¶¶41 – 58; Mot., pg.
7.)
(4)  Fourth, the cause
of action for conversion (Compl. ¶¶66 – 75) was removed and replaced with the
appropriate cause of action for grand theft under Cal. Pen. Code § 487 (1AC
¶¶67 – 78), and a related cause of action for filing of a false document under
Cal. Pen. Code § 115 (1AC ¶¶79 – 88; Mot., pg. 7.)
(5)  The causes of
action for unjust enrichment and “money had and received” remain the same,
except that they were split into two counts, one for each warehouse. (Compl.
¶¶76 – 84; 1AC ¶¶ 89 – 110; Mot., pg. 7.)
(6)  Finally, the
cause of action for negligence was maintained, but pled against different
parties. (Compl. ¶¶85 – 88; 1AC 111 – 124.) Thus, negligence is no longer pled
against Defendants Ovoda and XH and is pled against new Defendants. (Mot., pg.
7.)
On
June 3, 2024, Defendant Ovoda filed its Opposition. 
On
June 4, 2024, Defendant XHK filed its Opposition, along with the Declaration of
its counsel of record, G. Richard Gregory III.
On
June 10, 2024, Plaintiff Lightking filed a separate Reply as to each Defendant
XHK and Defendant Ovoda, alike.
II. LEGAL STANDARD
Civ.
Proc. Code §473, subd. (a), allows courts to permit amendment of pleadings in
furtherance of justice and on any terms as may be proper. 
          Judicial policy strongly favors amendment. The general rule
is liberal construction of pleadings and liberal allowance of amendments. Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d
920, 939.
          “Motions for leave to amend are directed to the sound
discretion of the judge: ‘The court may, in furtherance of justice and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading....’ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) However, the court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. (Citations.) The
policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial
of leave to amend can be justified. (Citation.) ‘Leave to amend should be
denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the
plaintiff's claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and
no amendment would change the result.’ (Citation.)” Howard v. County of San
Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.
          Courts will ordinarily not consider the validity of a
proposed pleading; the preferred practice is to “permit the amendment and allow
the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on
the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048. But a court does not abuse
its discretion in denying leave to amend where the proposed pleading fails to
state a cause of action and further amendment would be “futile.”  Foxborough
v. Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.  
          Courts have discretion to deny leave to amend where delay
in seeking amendment has prejudiced the other party. Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.
          Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b), requires that
a motion for leave to amend be accompanied by a declaration stating why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
declaration were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was
not made earlier. 
III. DISCUSSION
A. The Procedural Requirements Are Met
Here,
Plaintiff has attached the Declaration of Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Ian
Li. The Court finds that Counsel Li adequately states why the amendments are
necessary and proper by providing that they allow the existing disputes between
the Parties to be fully litigated and resolved. (Li Decl., ¶ 4.) Furthermore,
Counsel Li declares that he learned and determined the original Complaint would
need amending in February and March of 2024, after obtaining the case file from
Plaintiff’s predecessor counsel and having the opportunity to review it. (Li
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Counsel Li maintains that he could not have sought leave to
amend sooner than he did because he only substituted into this lawsuit as
Plaintiff’s newly retained counsel on January 25, 2024 and then obtained the
case file in February of 2024. (Id.) Thus, Plaintiff has complied with
the procedural requirements. 
B. The Motion is Not Untimely
Timeliness
is only a basis for denial where leave to amend would be prejudicial. Thus,
while there is no particular time limitations on motions for leave to amend,
leave to amend may be denied where allowing amendment would be prejudice the
opposing party. 
California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 for the
proposition that expansion of the litigation is unwarranted. But California Casualty (disapproved on
other grounds in Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390) does not
support denial of leave to amend where amendment would expand the litigation.
Rather, the cited pages contain language emphatically supporting leave to
amend:
          “While the cases cited for the point are not overly
explicit, we are confident Mr. Witkin is correct that the failure of a proposed
amendment to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or defense
may support an order denying a motion to amend. (See 5 Witkin, op. cit. supra.,
Pleading, § 1125, and cases cited.) That rule would find its most appropriate
application, however, in cases in which the insufficiency of the proposed
amendment is established by controlling precedent and where the insufficiency
could not be cured by further appropriate amendment. When, as here, the legal
sufficiency of the proposed defense is a novel question almost certain to be
tested in an appellate court, the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings. Such
proceeding might serve to develop the factual content of the proposed defense
and to refine the language in which it is pleaded.”
Here, both Defendant Ovoda and
Defendant XHK oppose Plaintiff’s request on the basis that the Court
“undoubtedly has discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment
fails to state a valid cause of action or defense.” (Weil & Brown, California
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, ¶6:645 (TRG 2023).) Both
Defendants argue Plaintiff asserts causes of action which cannot be cured by
amendment, particularly claims based on the Penal Code section which do not
create civil causes of action. Defendant Ovoda requests that if the Court does
grant Plaintiff leave for amend, it strike Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
for (4) “Grand Theft (PC §487)” and new Fifth Cause of Action for (5) “Filing
of False Document (P.C. 115)”, as both are based on the penal code. Defendant
XHK argues the same and then more. XHK specifies that because Plaintiff has not
alleged and will not be able to establish that it is a prosecuting agency, (i.e.,
a city attorney, a district attorney, the Attorney General or a state or local
agency entitled to prosecute an action under Penal Code section I 15),
Plaintiff should be denied leave to amend under the foregoing causes of action,
pursuant to this statute. Furthermore, XHK argues that it will be prejudiced
because it will have to incur additional time and expense to demur against
Plaintiff’s FAC if the Court grants the instant motion.
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ arguments regarding prejudice are
nonsensical given an adverse party is only considered prejudiced by a motion
for leave to amend if the adverse party is prevented from maintaining its
action or defense upon its merits. Under this standard, Plaintiff contends XHK
is not prejudiced because no trial date has been set and XHK, which up to this
point has conducted little to no discovery upon Plaintiff, is still able to do
all that it deems necessary in the preparation of its defense. Moreover,
Plaintiff reiterates that it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend
where the opposing party is not prejudiced. Lastly, the Court should not accept
XHK’s argument that it would be prejudiced by having to incur the additional
expense of demurring to Lightking’s FAC because if XHK’s argument were
accepted, it would contradict the liberal standard applied to amendments. 
                    C. The Amendment is Not Futile
          Plaintiff argues the amendments are
not futile because they allow Plaintiff to litigate all its claims against Defendants.
(1AC ¶¶125 – 127.) Moreover, any arguments against the sufficiency of
Plaintiff’s causes of action should be the subject of a demurrer.
The Court agrees with Plaintiff. Although Defendants raise considerable
arguments regarding Plaintiff’s Penal Code claims, the Court agrees that such
arguments should be asserted on demurrer or motion to strike. As Plaintiff is
the master of his own complaint, Plaintiff is given liberal leave to amend when
the opposing party is not prejudiced. Defendants have failed to demonstrate
prejudice. The possibility of the amended complaint requiring Defendants to
file a demurrer or motion to strike does not constitute prejudice. The Court
grants Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend its original complaint for the
foregoing reasons.
IV.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s Motion is granted with 20 days Leave to
Amend.  Plaintiff to give notice.
                    
Dated:
June 17, 2024
                                                                             JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                              