 Case Number:  23AHCV01069    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY DEFENDANT JESUS DIAZ AND DEFENDANT JADE GARDENS TO SET
ASIDE DEFAULTI.        INTRODUCTION
          In this action, Plaintiff Bikram Padda (“Padda”) alleges
that as a former tenant of the subject property, Plaintiff was exposed to
substandard conditions in violation of the Tenant Protection Act, including but
not limited to toxic mold; dysfunctional electrical systems; and a cockroach
and rodent infestation. On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff Padda filed the instant
lawsuit against Defendants Jesus Diaz (“Diaz”); LPBM Entity ( “LPBM”); and Jade
Gardens LLC (“Jade Gardens”) for eleven causes of action: (1) violation of
California civil code §1942.4; (2) tortious breach of the warranty of
habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) business and professions code §17200,
et seq; (5) negligence; (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) negligence per se; (9)
violation of consumer legal remedies act, California civil code § 1750, et seq;
and (11) false advertising pursuant to California business and professions code
§ 17500, et seq.
          On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff Padda requested the court
enter default as to all Defendants. 
          On March 26, 2024, the Court issued a Minute Order, finding
all Defendants in the case to have defaulted as of the date January 31, 2024.
Thus, the Order to Show Cause Re: Answer or Default was vacated and the Order
to Show Cause Re: Service of Statement of Damages was scheduled for June 27,
2024, as the Court found Plaintiff’s Statement of Damages (which was filed on
January 31, 2024) to be insufficient. 
Before
the Court is the Motion to Vacate and/or Set Aside Request for Entry of
Default. Defendants Diaz and Jade Gardens filed the instant motion on April 15,
2024. 
Plaintiff
filed its Opposition on May 31, 2024. 
No
Reply was filed.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §473(b) provides that the court “may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” Bolding added.
“The policy of the law favors a hearing on the
merits. (Citation.) Therefore, when a party in default moves promptly to
request relief, ‘very slight evidence is required to justify a trial court's
order setting aside a default. [Citation.]’ (Ibid.)” Purdum v. Holmes
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 916, 922.
          III.     DISCUSSION
          Default was
entered against Defendants Jesus Diaz and Jade Gardens on January 31,
2024.  The motion for relief from default
is both timely and contains a proposed answer. (Mot. Set Aside, Ex. B) The
accompanying declaration of Harry A. Safarian, counsel for Defendants, sets
forth compelling personal reasons why he was unable to file his answer in a
timely manner.  The Court is satisfied
that the failure to file an answer occurred due to mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect.  Therefore, the motion
is granted.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Motion by Defendants Jesus Diaz and Jade Gardens, LLC to
set aside the defaults entered against Defendants Diaz and Jade Gardens is granted.  Defendants are to file their answer within 5
days.
          Defendants are to give notice.
           
Dated:  June 17, 2024                                                           
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT