  Case Number:  23AHCV00796    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDERI.        INTRODUCTION
          On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff Elena Rubio (“Rubio”) filed
suit against Defendant American Honda Motor Company (“Honda”) for the following
three causes of action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2. Plaintiff’s causes of action
concern the 2018 Honda Accord (“Vehicle”) Plaintiff purchased in October of
2018 and she alleges that the Vehicle was delivered to her with serious defects
and nonconformities to warranty. Additionally, the Vehicle subsequently
developed additional and other serious defects and nonconformities after
delivery which serve as the subject of this lawsuit.
          On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff propounded her “First Set of
Requests for Production” on Defendant Honda containing thirty-one requests.
Then, on November 14, 2023, Defendant Honda served Plaintiff with its first
Responses. 
On
November 17, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, David Derderian sent Defendant’s
counsel, Soheyl Tahsildoost at Theta Law Firm a thirteen-page, detailed Meet
and Confer Letter, informing Defendant that its responses were deficient and
required subsequent revision and supplementation. Plaintiff set forth the
reasons why Defendant’s responses were deficient, including citing relevant
legal authority. Plaintiff requested Defendant respond by November 24, 2023
with Defendant’s availability for a meet and confer teleconference.
On
November 28, 2023, Defense counsel provided a written response to Plaintiff’s
Meet and Confer, standing by its objections. Defense counsel also accused
Plaintiff of not attempting to meet and confer in good faith because it found Plaintiff’s
letter to be “without consideration of a single request of AHM’s responses.”
Defendant’s letter concluded by expressing its preference for a telephonic meet
and confer letter, as opposed to “simply trading letters back and forth.”
However, Defendant’s letter did not acknowledge Plaintiff’s own request to meet
and confer telephonically and Defendant did not provide its own availability to
do so. Instead, the letter ended with Defendant informing Plaintiff that it
looked forward to hearing from Plaintiff as to Plaintiff’s availability. 
On December
29, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to telephonically meet and confer by calling
Defendant counsel’s office. (Derderian Decl., ¶ 24.) However, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares he was unable to meet Defendant’s counsel so he left a
voicemail. (Id.)
Plaintiff
then filed the instant motion on December 29, 2023, moving the Court to compel
further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
Plaintiff also concurrently filed a Proposed Order, the Declaration of David
Derderian, Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, and Plaintiff’s Notice of the
instant motion.
On
March 25, 2024, Defendant Honda filed an Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel and an Opposition to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement. 
On
March 28, 2024 Plaintiff filed her Reply. 
On
April 8, 2024, the Court issued a Minute Order to call the matter to hearing
and instructed that the hearing for the instant motion would be continued to
June 17, 2024 so as to allow for further meet and confer efforts.
Jury
Trial is set for January 28, 2025.
To
date, the Court is not aware of any further meet or confer efforts or any
further document production on behalf of Defendant. The Court considers the
instant motion on the understanding that no further efforts have occurred and
no further document production has been received.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          A. Motion to Compel Further
Production of Documents
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move
for a further response to requests for production of documents where a
statement of compliance is incomplete or where a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  A motion to compel further
response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
The Code of Civil Procedure
contemplates three forms of proper responses to a request for production: 
a statement of compliance in full or in part (CCP § 2031.220); a statement of
inability to comply (CCP § 2031.230); and a partial objection coupled with a
statement of compliance or representation of inability to comply (CCP §
2031.240).   
A statement of compliance
under section 2031.220 has two parts: (1) the responding party “shall state
that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related
activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part,” and (2) “that
all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.” 
A representation of
inability to comply under section 2031.230 has three parts: the statement must
(1) affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply, and (2) the statement shall specify whether the inability to
comply is because “the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.” 
The third part comes into play if the responding party knows or believes
someone else has possession of the documents:  if so, “[t]he statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.” 
Finally, California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)   
B. Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010.) 
If sanctions are sought,
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the
identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of
sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities,
and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction.   
With regard to a motion to
compel further responses to requests for production, Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2031.310, subdivision (h) provides that sanctions shall be
awarded against any party, person or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the Court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. 
C. Objections
1. Specific Objections
                    a. Relevance
          Code Civ. Proc. §2017.010 permits a party to “obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter .
. . if the matter is either itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” According to a
leading treatise, “For discovery purposes, information should be regarded as ‘relevant’
to the subject matter if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. [Gonzalez
v. Sup.Ct. (City of San Fernando) (1995) 33 CA4th 1539, 1546, 39
CR2d 896, 901 (citing text); Lipton v. Sup.Ct. (Lawyers' Mut. Ins.
Co.) (1996) 48 CA4th 1599, 1611, 56 CR2d 341, 347 (citing text); Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 CA4th 1006, 1013, 105 CR2d 115,
120 (citing text)]” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2022), ¶8:66.1.)
          b. Privacy
Certain
information such as social security numbers, tax returns, banking information,
medical records, and the like, are protected by a constitutional right to
privacy. Calif. Const., Art. 1, §1; County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 621, 639 (privacy interest in patient medical and
prescription records). A privacy interest is qualified, not absolute, and
disclosure may be required if a compelling public interest is demonstrated. Cross
v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 305, 326. 
          c. Burden and Oppression
The
much-cited West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(1961) 52 Cal.2d 407, 417-418 (West Pico) has this to say about what is
meant by a burden and what is oppressive:
“Oppression
must not be equated with burden. The objection based upon burden must be
sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to support an
objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to
create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is
incommensurate with the result sought. . . .  But, under the pertinent code sections burden,
alone, is not a ground for objection. In addition to expressly incorporating
the provisions of subdivision (b) of section 2016, and of subdivision (b) of
section 2019, subdivision (b) of section 2030 provides that the court may
‘protect the (objecting) party from annoyance, expense, embarrassment or
oppression.’ Subdivision (b) of section 2019 includes similar language,
omitting the word ‘expense.’ Each of the sections grants the power to make such
orders as justice requires, but none of them so much as refers to ‘burden.’
This indicates a legislative acknowledgment that some burden is inherent in all
demands for discovery. The objection of burden is valid only when that burden
is demonstrated to result in injustice. Hence, the trial court is not empowered
to sustain an objection in toto, when the same is predicated upon burden,
unless such is the only method of rendering substantial justice.”
          d. Miscellaneous
Assumes
facts not in evidence. West Pico, supra, 52 Cal.2d at 421 (“even
if both objections [compound and assumes facts not in evidence] were
meritorious, that would not be grounds for objection to an interrogatory
propounded under the provisions of section 2030”); Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 (“where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but
the nature of the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to
provide an appropriate response”).
However,
argumentative may be a valid objection 
          Another objection raised is that the information sought is
equally available to the other party. Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220 (c) requires a
responding party “who does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully” to make a “reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information .
. . except where the information is equally available to the propounding
party.” As stated in Bunnell v. Superior Court (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d
720, 724, “There is statutory precedent in California for placing the burden of
research on the propounder of the interrogatory where the records from which
the research is to be done are equally available to him.” 
 2. General Objections
A
responding party is under a statutory obligation to provide responses that are
“as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220 (a).) Further, “If only
part of an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory
shall be answered,” and “the specific ground for the objection shall be set
forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.240 (a)(b),
italics added.) That is, to be code-compliant, a response should state all
available information available and, if there is additional responsive
information that is being withheld based on a privilege, it should so state and
identify the privilege under which information is being withheld. Prefacing a
substantive response with the words, “subject to and without waiving” all
objections is not helpful in terms of understanding whether additional
information is being withheld based on a privilege, and which privilege is at
issue.   
III.     ANALYSIS
A.  
Parties’ Arguments
Moving Papers
Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One, seeks four categories
of documents relevant to the asserted claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“SBA”), specifically as to: (1) Plaintiff’s own vehicle (Request
Nos. 1-14); (2) Defendant’s policies and procedures for handling Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act Cases (Request Nos. 15-22); (3) Defendant’s warranty
policy and the procedure used for handling warranty issues (Request Nos.
23-29); and (4) information regarding similar customer complaints in vehicles
of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle (Request Nos. 30-31). 
Thus, Plaintiff groups and addresses the
RFPs by category in order to reduce the length of the Separate Statement 
 
i)               
Requests 1-12; and 14: Relating to Subject Vehicle
These requests seek documents and information concerning the
Subject Vehicle itself, defined as the 2018 Honda Accord, bearing VIN
1HGCV1F34JA244110, which is the subject of this lawsuit. These documents are
indisputably relevant to Plaintiff's SBA claims. See, Krotin v. Porsche Cars
N. Am., Inc., 38 Cal. App. 4th 294, 303 (1995) (an automobile
manufacturer's "dealers’ service records” are probative of whether a
particular vehicle is defective). See, Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, 328
F.R.D. 557, 562 (S.D. Cal. 2019) ("records concerning the specific vehicle
at issue" are relevant to proving liability under the SBA). 
Furthermore, Defendant's boilerplate objections are without merit,
as explained herein. Finally, Defendant's response does not comply with the
Code. Accordingly, the Plaintiff respectfully requests the Court compel
Defendant to serve a further, Code- compliant response and to produce all
responsive documents to this Request. 
 
ii)             
Requests 15-22: Defendant’s Policies and Procedures
for Handling Song-Beverly Vases
This Request seeks documents and
information concerning Defendant's Lemon Law recall policies and procedures.
Courts have repeatedly found these documents relevant to SBA claims. See,
Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc., 35 Cal. App. 4th 112, 136 (1995), as
modified on denial of reh'g (June 22, 1995) ("whether the manufacturer
had a written policy on the requirement to repair or replace" is one
of "the factors to be considered by the jury" concerning
whether defendant willfully violated the SBA); Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of N.
Am., Inc., 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 186 (1994) ("Whether the lack of a
written policy demonstrates [defendant's willful violation of the SBA] is a
question to be answered by a properly instructed jury ...."). 
Furthermore, Defendant's boilerplate
objections are without merit, as explained herein. Finally, Defendant's
response does not comply with the Code. Thus, Plaintiff requests the Court
compel Defendant to serve a further, Code-compliant response and to produce all
responsive documents to this Request. 
 
iii)           
Requests 23-29 Defendant’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure for Handling
Plaintiff provides that these requests seek the production of
Defendant’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual provided to its repair
facilities including Defendant’s written warranties and the policies and
procedures related to what is covered under the warranties, how coverage is
determined, training related to warranty coverage, Defendant’s policies and
procedures relating to how Defendant handles customer complaints, and whether
Defendant abides by its affirmative duties to repurchase defective vehicles
under the SBA. 
In response, Defendant’s position is that such documents are
irrelevant to this case. Yet, Defendants provide no basis for this conclusion.
In fact, numerous California court decisions in individual Lemon Law cases have
held that a defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used to
evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement of a defective vehicle
are highly relevant and must be voluntarily exchanged in discovery. See,
e.g., Jensen v. BMW of N. Am., Inc., 35 Cal. App. 4th 112, 136 (1995). 
Furthermore, Defendant's boilerplate objections are without merit,
as explained herein. Finally, Defendant's response does not comply with the
Code. Accordingly, Plaintiff 
respectfully requests the Court to compel Defendant to serve a further,
Code- compliant response and to produce all responsive documents to this
Request. 
 
iv) Requests 30-31: Similar Customer Complaints
Defendant stands by its erroneous position that Plaintiff is only
entitled to discovery relating to Plaintiff’s own individual vehicle. This is
simply not so. The prevailing authority makes clear that the scope of
discovery includes documents that relate to similar defects experienced by
other consumers. Donlen v. Ford Motor Co., supra, (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
at 143-144, 153 (evidence of special service bulletins issued before Plaintiff
bought his truck and evidence of similar transmission problems in other trucks
were relevant and admissible); Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 973, 978-979, 986 (“Doppes”) (documents of warranty
complaints, service histories, and employee records concerning the subject
defect in all affected vehicles and the company’s responses and instructions
regarding cure were discoverable and relevant to issue of defendant’s good faith
treatment of the problem); see also, Norton v. Super. Ct. (1994) 24 Cal.
App. 4th 1750, 1760-1761 (an admissible document is necessarily discoverable); Glenfed
Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117-1118
(if evidence is admissible based on caselaw, then it is discoverable). 
Courts routinely compel production of the same information and
documents requested here where the defect at issue is a common one alleged by
consumers. Some courts have even adopted an addendum to discovery, ordering
defendants to produce the types of documents sought by Plaintiff. In Doppes,
for instance, the plaintiff there sued car manufacturer Bentley for violations
of the SBA after Bentley failed to repair, repurchase, or replace a 2001
Bentley Arnage that had an obnoxious odor in the interior resulting from the
rust inhibitor used on the subject car frames. Doppes v. Bentley Motors,
Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 971. The plaintiff there sought production
of all documents relating to (1) customer complaints concerning the rust
inhibitor used on the 2002 Bentley Arnage; (2) all notices to Bentley dealers
for the period 2001 to the present concerning the rust inhibitor used on the
Bentley Arnage; (3) all warranty repairs during the period of January 2002 to
the present of the Bentley Arnage related to the rust inhibitor used on the
vehicle; (4) all customer complaints of a wax oil smell caused by the rust
inhibitor on the 2002 Bentley Arnage; and (5) vehicle tests conducted on the
2002 model year Arnage to confirm whether there was a wax oil smell arising
from the vehicle's rust inhibitor. (Id. at 973-74). When the defendant
failed to produce these documents, the Doppes plaintiff moved to compel
production of these documents, and the trial court ordered Bentley to produce
them. (Id.). 
The trial court adopted the discovery referee’s finding that
Bentley had “failed to timely produce relevant and properly demanded, but
potentially damaging, documents,” and that it had failed to adequately explain
its failure to provide full and complete evidence. (Id.). (Internal
quotations omitted). Because the record demonstrated that defendant had
“engaged in repeated and egregious violations of the discovery laws that not
only impaired plaintiff’s rights, but threatened the integrity of the judicial
process,” the Doppes decision held that the trial court abused its
discretion by failing to impose terminating sanctions against Bentley for its
unjustified failure to produce its internal documents. (Id. at 971.).
Here, similarly, Plaintiff requests production of the same types of documents
that were the subject of the Doppes Court’s decision resulting in
terminating sanctions being levied against that defendant. And while Defendant
here may argue that such discovery is in excess of a “single Lemon Law matter”
involving a “single vehicle,” the prevailing authority holds otherwise. Under Doppes,
these documents must be produced. 
 
Opposition
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
filed this motion seeking responses to all her requests and only one of the
requests should actually be at issue before the Court. Furthermore, Defendant
maintains that its objections and initial responses are appropriate and sufficient,
and that Plaintiff’s Meet and Confer Efforts were disingenuous. Defendant
argues that given the law requires that the moving party declare that they or
she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue before filing a motion, Plaintiffs “boilerplate ‘meet and confer’
efforts, followed up by a voicemail, were designed to appear cordial but were
never meant to launch meaningful negotiations on specific responses.” (Motion
Opp., pg 10.) However, Defendant does not dispute Plaintiff’s claim that
Plaintiff sought to telephonically meet and confer with Defendant and that
Defendant failed to meet Plaintiff’s efforts or make any attempt to meet and
confer. Defendant does not dispute that it did not return Plaintiff’s
voicemail. Lastly, Defendant does not assert that it made any effort
communicate with Plaintiff or initiate any telephonic efforts to meet and
confer. Defendant’s argument rests entirely on the allegation that Plaintiff’s
efforts were not genuine but Defendant provides no evidence as to how Defendant
made any such equal effort at all. As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated it made sufficient attempts to meet and confer before filing the
instant motion and that Defendant has obstructed such efforts, necessitating
the filing of this motion and the attention and resources of the Court. 
Reply
Plaintiff
maintains that she is entitled to seek these relevant requested documents in
order to successfully prosecute her causes of action. Given California’s
standard for discovery and that the scope of relevance pertains to “any matter
not privileged that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action if the matter
is either itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence” (Cal. Civ. Code § 2017.010), Defendant’s
objections are and responses are deficient. Thus, Plaintiff requests that the
Court issue an order striking Defendant’s objections and compelling Defendant
to provide verified, Code-compliant responses within ten calendar days.
B.    Procedural
Considerations
          The Court finds Plaintiff has complied with the relevant
procedural requirements because Plaintiff’s motion was accompanied by a sufficient
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (CCP §2031.310(b).
Additionally, Plaintiff included a separate statement in compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b) and CRC 3.1345(a)(3). Despite the fact the instant
motion was initially scheduled to be heard on April 8, 2024 and was
subsequently continued to June 17, 2024 (in order to allow more meet and confer
efforts), the instant motion remains on the calendar and no further update or
amendment to Plaintiff’s instant motion has been made. As such, the Court is
unaware and uninformed of any subsequent further meet and confer efforts that
may have occurred after the April 8, 2024 hearing, per the Court’s instructions.
Given Plaintiff initially substantially complied  with her duty to meet and confer, the Court
finds that the instruction to further meet and confer in an effort to progress
discovery could only be successfully carried out with Defendant’s cooperation
and participation. Although Defendant has provided a declaration, it evidences
no demonstration of Defendant’s willingness to cooperate with Plaintiff’s meet
and confer or with the Court’s instructions. As such, the Court notes
Defendant’s obstruction of the discovery process and abuse of the Court’s
resources. 
          C. Further Production of Documents
The
Court agrees with Plaintiff’s reasoning for requesting further documentation.
Specifically, the Court finds that Defendant has not provided a privilege log
in making any objections on the basis of privilege, privacy, or to the extent
that the requests seek information that Defendant claims is confidential,
commercially sensitive, proprietary or protected as a trade secret. The Court
disagrees with Defendant that Plaintiff is not entitled to seek production of
documents relating to Defendant’s other vehicles and that Plaintiff should be
limited only to discovery pertaining to her own individual vehicle. Plaintiff demonstrates
that the prevailing authorities have made clear that discovery includes
documents that relate to similar defects experienced by other consumers,
including warranty complaints, service histories, and employee records
concerning the subject defect. The Court agrees that Defendant’s Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual provided to its repair facilities, including
written warranties and the policies and procedures relating to the scope of
coverage are also relevant. Defendant’s objections and responses are not code
compliant. Plaintiff’s requests concerning Defendant’s Lemon Law recall
policies and procedures is also relevant and discoverable, as not only have
these documents been deemed relevant to SBA claims, but Plaintiff’s claims
relate to Lemon Law causes of action. Finally, Plaintiff’s requests seeking
information and documentation concerning the Subject Vehicle itself which is
the subject of this lawsuit is indisputably relevant. The Court agrees. Thus,
Defendant must comply in providing code compliant responses to the foregoing
requests without further delay or prejudice to Plaintiff. Failure to do so will
result in the Court awarding sanctions on its own motion. 
          D. Sanctions
Plaintiff
does not request sanctions and does not provide documentation of hours spent on
drafting the discovery motions, separate statement, meet and confer letter,
reply, or instant motion. Plaintiff also does not declare its hourly fee.
Although it is normally the Court’s practice to award sanctions based on a
party unsuccessfully opposing a discovery motion, the Court is unable to
determine the amount of such sanctions without further information and detail
from Plaintiff. Thus, the Court is currently unable to award sanctions.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court
reminds parties that civil discovery is intended to be a self-executing system
with minimal judicial intervention. (See Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft
v. Superior Ct. (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331; Clement v. Alegre
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291-1292.) In this case, Defendant has not
complied with the Court’s April 8, 2024 instructions and has not cooperated
with Plaintiff’s efforts to telephonically meet and confer. The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s instant Motion to Compel Further Production of Documents to Set One
Requests and orders Defendant to comply with Plaintiff’s requests within 30
days of this order. 
Moving party to
give notice.
          
Dated:  June 17, 2024                                                           
                                                                                 JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT