 Case Number:  23STCV30112    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  14 #13Case Background
Plaintiffs allege they live in an illegal dwelling unit
(the Unit) at the rear of the property located at 3501 Fletcher Dr., Los
Angeles (the Property). (Compl., ¶¶ 12-13.) Plaintiffs Barrera and Bernal
rented the Property from Defendants for $2,500.00 monthly beginning in 2018.
(Id., ¶ 13.) Plaintiffs Castaneda, Yanes, and Nunez are plaintiff Barrera’s
children. Plaintiff Campos also dwells on the Property; his precise
relationship to his co-plaintiffs is unclear from the Complaint. Plaintiffs
allege that their unit lacked basic necessities and was in substandard
condition.
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Sandybelle Barrera,
Reyna Campos, Jisami Castaneda, Zoey Yanes, and Mathew Nunez filed their
Complaint against Defendants, Elias Camarena, individually and as co-trustee of
the Elias and Maria Camarena Trust.
On June 11, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ first
demurrer in part with leave to amend.
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (FAC).
On August 28, 2024, Defendants filed their second
demurrer.
On October 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Defendants demur to the seventh cause of action for failure
to pay relocation assistance.
Decision
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant is to
ANSWER within 10 days notice of this order.
 
Discussion
Defendants demur to the seventh cause of action for
failure to pay relocation assistance on the grounds that the FAC fails to state
a cause of action with sufficient specificity. 
The elements of failure to pay relocation after a
red-tag are scattered through several sections of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code (LAMC).
LAMC, section 163.02(A) states: “Any tenant who is
displaced or subject to displacement from a residential rental unit as result
of an order to vacate or any order requiring the vacation of the residential
unit by the Enforcement Agency due to a violation so extensive and of such a
nature that the immediate health and safety of the residents is endangered,
shall be entitled to relocation benefits payable by the landlord in the amounts
prescribed in Section 163.05. The Enforcement Agency shall determine the eligibility
of tenants for benefits paid pursuant to this article.”
LAMC, section 163.04(A) states: “The relocation
benefits required by this article shall be paid by the landlord to the tenant
within ten days after the date that the order to vacate is first mailed to the
landlord and posted on the premises, or at least 20 days prior to the vacation
date set forth in the order to vacate, whichever occurs later.” 
LAMC, section 163.06(A) states: “If the landlord fails,
neglects or refuses to make timely payments to a tenant pursuant to an order to
pay relocation benefits, except in the situations described in Sections 163.02
B. or 163.02 C., and if the tenant does not receive relocation payments from
the City, the landlord shall be liable to the tenant in a civil action for an
amount equal to one and one-half times the relocation benefits payable pursuant
to Section 163.05. The tenant shall also be entitled to recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by a court.”
LAMC, section 163.01 defines an order or notice to
vacate as: “Any order or notice to vacate issued by an Enforcement Agency or by
a court of law, requiring the vacation of a residential unit as a result of a
violation so extensive and of such a nature that the immediate health and
safety of the residents is endangered.” 
Here, the Court previously sustained Defendants’
demurrer because the Complaint failed to allege facts, such as whether they
received a notice to vacate, which would show when Defendants were allegedly
obligated to pay relocation assistance. 
As before, the FAC alleges that the City of Los Angeles
Department of Building & Safety (DBS) issued an order in January 2023 finding
the subject building was a substandard building and ordering Defendants to
discontinue the subject building as a dwelling and to restore it to its
original condition. (FAC ¶16.) A substandard building is one that endangers the
life, limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or other
occupants. (FAC ¶20.) DBS determined the dwelling was illegally constructed
without permits or inspection and was not certified to be used as a dwelling.
(FAC ¶17.) Defendants were to comply with the order by March 5, 2023. (FAC
¶18.) The FAC now alleges that the order also stated that Defendants would be
required to provide relocation assistance to Plaintiffs if they were evicted to
comply with the order. (FAC ¶25.) Defendants told Plaintiffs they would not
make repairs and that they had to vacate. (FAC ¶30.) 
The FAC now alleges that Plaintiffs were subject to an
order which required Defendants to cease using the subject building as a
dwelling due to violations which endangered the health and safety of the
building’s occupants. The new facts show that the DBS order required Defendants
to pay relocation assistance if Defendants evicted Plaintiffs to comply with
the order. Defendants thereafter did commence eviction proceedings. It is
reasonable to infer that Plaintiffs were required to vacate the premises to
allow Defendants to comply with DBS’s order. Thus, the DBS order required
Plaintiffs to vacate the subject building. Therefore, the FAC now alleges that
Defendants received an order to vacate as contemplated by LAMC, section 163.02(A).
Defendants argue that there are no allegations of the
date the notice to vacate was first mailed or posted on the premises.
Defendants allege that the cause of action is not sufficiently pled because they
lack details necessary to determine when the alleged relocation fee would have become
due. 
“Less particularity is required where the defendant may
be assumed to possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior,
to that possessed by the plaintiff.” (Randall v. Ditech Financial, LLC
(2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 804, 810, quoting Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474.)
Here, the FAC alleges DBS issued the order to
Defendants, meaning the order would have been mailed to Defendants and posted
on the subject property. Defendants would have the same if not superior
knowledge of when the DBS order was mailed and posted because the notice would
have at least been mailed to Defendants. Even if the FAC does not state when
the notice was posted, the FAC alleges that Defendants were required to comply
with the order by March 5, 2023. Defendants were thus liable for relocation
fees 20 days before the date Plaintiffs were required to vacate, March 5, 2023.
Therefore, the Court finds that the FAC sufficiently alleges when the
relocation fees were due. Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant is to ANSWER within 10 days notice of this
order.