  Case Number:  22STCV32918    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  14 #12Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant falsely accused him of giving her herpes. 
The relevant procedural
history is as follows:
On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed his First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Defamation, (2) Libel, (3) Slander, (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (5) Fraudulent
Concealment, (6) Civil Extortion, and (7) Libel against Defendants Madeline
Isabel Cordoba (“Cordoba”), Justin Daily (“Daily”), Reed Aljian (“Aljian”), and
Daily Aljian LLP (“Firm”).1 The first five causes of action are asserted
against Defendant Cordoba only. The last two causes of action are asserted
against the Attorney Defendants only.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Defamation, (2) Libel, (3) Slander, (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (5) Civil Code §
1708.85, and (6) Negligence against Defendant Cordoba.
On April 18, 2023, Defendant
Cordoba filed her First Amended Cross-Complaint (“Cross-Complaint”) for (1)
Sexual Battery, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Concealment, (4)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Negligence, and (6) IIED against Plaintiff and
ROES 1-35.
Throughout litigation, both
parties filed many motions to seal. Nine motions to seal remain to be heard.
On August 8, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to quash subpoena.
On October 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff and Defendant filed motions to seal various
documents and motion papers.
Defendant moves to quash a deposition subpoena served
on nonparty Khaliq Ghani on July 18, 2024.
Decision
The motions to seal are GRANTED.
Defendant’s motion to quash deposition subpoena is
GRANTED.
Discussion
A.   
Motion to Quash Subpoena
Defendant moves to quash a deposition subpoena served
on Khaliq Ghani. The subpoena seeks the following:
1.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS with Ms. Cordoba including or related
to SEX, HSV-2, or herpes. 
2.     Please
provide Documents sufficient to show your relationship with Ms. Cordoba.
3.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS relating to your testing for HSV-2
from February 1, 2022 to January 6, 2023. 
4.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS with Ms. Cordoba regarding her
disclosure of her sexual health. 
5.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS with Ms. Cordoba regarding your
disclosure of your sexual health. 
6.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS referring to Ms. Cordoba sent to you
from January 6, 2022 to Present. 
7.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS referring to Ms. Cordoba sent by you
from January 6, 2022 to Present. 
8.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS including or related to HSV-2, Herpes,
or sex from February 1, 2022 to January 6, 2023. 
9.     Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS related to the ACTION. 
10.  Please
provide all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS related to the distribution of images
or videos including black males from Ms. Cordoba from April 10, 2022 to
Present.
Plaintiff first alleges that this motion was untimely
because it was filed after the close of discovery. At the time this motion was filed
on August 8, 2024, trial was set for September 16, 2024. This motion was not
untimely because it was filed more than 30 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc.,
section 2024.020.) Although this motion is being heard less than 15 days before
trial, the Court placed this motion back on calendar on its own motion. 
Defendant moves to quash Plaintiff’s deposition
subpoena served on nonparty Khaliq Ghani on the grounds that Plaintiff failed
to obtain a court order permitting discovery into Defendant’s past sexual
conduct with individuals other than Plaintiff.
In any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes
sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking
discovery concerning the plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than
the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is
good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is
relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. This showing shall be made by a
noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, and shall not be made or considered by the court at an ex parte
hearing. 
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.220.)
The leading case interpreting section 2017.220 is Knoettgen
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 11 (Knowttgen). In that
case, plaintiff was the first female truck driver to work for her company. (Knoettgen
at 12.) She was still its only female truck driver when she was assaulted and
harassed by male coworkers. Id. During the resulting lawsuit, defense learned
that the plaintiff had been attacked by men twice during her childhood. (Id.
at 13.) At the plaintiff’s deposition, the defense began to question her about
those events. (Id.) She refused to answer, and the trial court granted a motion
compelling her to do so. (Id.) 
The Court of Appeal reversed, speaking in no uncertain
terms about the deterrent effect that these kinds of inquiries would have upon
parties with harassment and battery claims, as well as the potential for
harassment and intimidation. (Id. at 13-14.) The panel flatly rejected
the argument that this history was directly relevant to and necessary for an
evaluation of the plaintiff’s emotional distress damages. “We do not perceive
that this showing differentiates this case from any other sexual harassment case.
If this be good cause, then this type of discovery is automatically available
in every case, and Code of Civil Procedure section 2017, subdivision (d) is
meaningless.” (Id. at 14.) 
Here, Defendant represents, and Plaintiff does not
dispute, that Plaintiff served the subpoena on Ghani believing Defendant had sexual
intercourse with him during the HSV-2 infection period. (Motion, p. 5.)
Although Plaintiff’s counsel represented he would file a motion under section
2017.220 seeking leave to obtain discovery of Defendant’s past sexual conduct,
no motion was ever filed. (Id.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has a due
process right to serve discovery, that Defendant is obstructing discovery, and
that the testimony requested is relevant and necessary for trial. However,
whether the discovery was relevant or necessary is not relevant to whether
Plaintiff complied with section 2017.220. Plaintiff does not dispute that he
failed to move for leave to obtain discovery of Defendant’s past sexual history
as required under Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.220 before issuing this
subpoena. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoena is GRANTED.
B.   
Motions to Seal
The parties have a total of eight motions to seal.
Although there was a motion on calendar to seal Plaintiff’s opposition to
Defendant’s motion for medical examination (CRS #0132), no motion was filed.
The remaining seven motions seek to seal the following:
1.     Defendant’s
Motion in Limine No. 14: Exhibit J to the Declaration of Reed Aljian
2.     Plaintiff’s
128.7 Motion: Exhibits H-M to the Declaration of Michael Killingsworth
3.     Defendant’s
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions: Motion and compendium of
exhibits
4.     Plaintiff’s
contempt motion: Exhibits 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 to the Declaration of Michael
Killingsworth
5.     Defendant’s
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication: Compendium
of exhibits
6.     Plaintiff’s
motion to quash deposition subpoena on Plaintiff’s first employer: Exhibits 1,
H-L to the Declaration of Michael Killingsworth
7.     Plaintiff’s
reply to his 128.7 motion: Exhibits A, G, and H to the supplemental declaration
of Michael Killingsworth
Pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule
2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts that
establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) In Hinshaw v. Superior Court
(1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242, the court stated that private, non-governmental
parties have a privacy interest in maintaining confidentiality of settlement
agreements that contain personal financial information. 
The sealing of court documents is not
permitted solely based on the agreement of the parties "without a specific
showing of serious injury." (Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 97, 106.) Regarding the serious injury, "[b]road
allegations of harm, bereft of specific examples or articulated reasoning, are
insufficient." (Huffy, supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at p. 106) (quoting
In re Cendant Corp. (3d Cir. 2001) 260 F.3d 183, 194.) 
The parties argue that the documents to be sealed
include information marked for protection under the protective order in this
action. The parties seek to seal these documents to protect their rights under
the protective order. The records include medical records, sensitive
communications and images, and other records which the parties have agreed are
confidential under their protective order. The Court finds that an overriding
interest exists which overcomes the public’s right to access these materials
and supports sealing the records. Both parties in this action will be
prejudiced if the records are not sealed. Finally, the sealing is narrowly
tailored and there are no less restrictive means of achieving the overriding
interest. Therefore, the motions to seal are GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motions to seal are GRANTED.
Defendant’s motion to quash deposition subpoena
is GRANTED.