  Case Number:  20SMCV01277    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  205 HEARING DATE:  August 12, 2024 JUDGE/DEPT:  Moreton/Beverly Hills, 205 CASE NAME: The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum v. Marvin Boateng, et al. CASE NUMBER:  20SMCV01277  COMP. FILED:  September 11, 2020    PROCEEDINGS:  REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY:  Steven Fischer, Lindsay Hughes and Dr. Ruth Jackson RESPONDING PARTY: The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum, Renei V. Clayton Jr. and Lloyd L. Clayton  BACKGROUND This case arises from a dispute between a non-profit organization and its board members.  The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum (“MCLM”) was created by Dr. Mayme A. Clayton, a California university librarian, to house a collection of African American literature and art.  Defendants Steven Fisher, Lindsay Hughes, and Dr. Ruth Jackson were members MCLM’s Board of Directors.   Plaintiffs MCLM and Renai V. Clayton, Jr. (“Plaintiffs”) allege that when their terms expired, Defendants continued to hold illegitimate board meetings, refused to set a meeting to elect new board members, refused to acknowledge duly elected board members, continued doing business under false authority, and siphoned funds for their personal use.  Plaintiffs further allege Defendants’ attempt to put the collection at California State University at Dominguez Hills (“CSUDH”) violated the bylaws and purposes of MCLM.  On September 11, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against Defendants.  On June 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint.  On January 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint.   On July 27, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs and added a new party, Lloyd L. Clayton as Cross-Defendant (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).  The Cross-Complaint sought relief for (1) express indemnity, (2) equitable indemnity, (3) contribution and (4) declaratory relief.  The Cross-Defendants were served with the Cross-Complaint by email to their then-attorney of record.  On February 24, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed a joint answer.   Due to repeated failures of the Cross-Defendants to appear at hearings, submit trial documents and comply with the Court’s Orders, the Court set an Order to Show Case (“OSC”) hearing on March 18, 2024.  At the hearing, the Court ruled that Cross-Defendants’ answer is stricken, and default was entered against them.     This hearing is on Cross-Plaintiffs’ request for entry of default judgment.    RELIEF REQUESTED  Default judgment against Cross-Defendants for a total of $126,688.21, which is comprised of: (1) $121,920.50 in attorneys’ fees, and (2) $4,767.71, for costs.   ANALYSIS  Code Civ. Proc. § 585 sets forth the two options for obtaining a default judgment. First, where the plaintiff’s complaint¿seeks compensatory damages only, in a sum certain which is readily ascertainable from the allegations of the complaint or statement of damages, the clerk may enter the default judgment for that amount. However, if the relief requested in the complaint is more complicated, consisting of either nonmonetary relief, or monetary relief in amounts which require either an accounting, additional evidence, or the exercise of judgment to ascertain, the plaintiff must request entry of judgment by the court. In such cases, the plaintiff must affirmatively establish his entitlement to the specific judgment requested.¿ (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 287.)  Section 585 also allows for interest, costs and attorney fees, where otherwise allowed by law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 585(a).)  Multiple specific documents are required, such as: (1) form CIV 100, (2) a brief summary of the case; (3) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (4) interest computations as necessary; (5) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment under Code Civ. Proc. § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (CRC Rule 3.1800.)  Here, Cross-Plaintiffs have properly complied with all the substantive and procedural requirements for a default judgment. Substantively, Cross-Plaintiffs declare via declaration that they have incurred attorneys’ fees in the amount of $121,920, for which they are entitled to be indemnified pursuant to MCLM’s by-laws.  The by-laws mandate that MCLM indemnify its directors, including former directors such as Cross-Plaintiffs, for any “proceeding.”  Local Rule 3.214 does not apply to cap the attorneys’ fees, as the fees are damages.  Even if it applies, the Court exercises its discretion to award more than the cap, as any other result would frustrate the indemnification provision in the by-laws.  The amount of the fees also need not be specified in the Complaint.  (Simke, Chodos, Silberfield & Anteau, Inc. v. Athans (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1278.)  A memorandum of costs in the amount of $4,767.71 is set forth in Item 7 of the CIV-100 form.   Procedurally, Cross-Plaintiffs correctly completed JC Form CIV-100 in a manner that would not void or put at issue the entry of default, provided a declaration of non-military status, requested dismissal of the fictitious defendants, requested damages in amounts supported by the filings, and filed a proposed judgment.   As default has already been entered as a terminating sanction, default judgment is appropriate here.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER   For the foregoing reasons, Cross-Plaintiffs Steven Fischer, Lindsay Hughes and Dr. Ruth Jackson’s Request for Default Judgment is GRANTED as to Cross-Defendants The Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum, Renei V. Clayton Jr. and Lloyd L. Clayton.  Default judgment in the amount of $126,688.21 is awarded in favor of Cross-Plaintiffs.  