 Case Number:  20SMCV01985    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   WCO SPECTRUM, LLC,    Plaintiff, v.  SIGNAL FLARE CAPITAL, INC. et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  20SMCV01985    Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   CROSS-DEFENDANTS WCO SPECTRUM    LLC AND GARY WINNICK’S MOTION    FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE    ALTERNATIVE, FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION    BACKGROUND This case arises from a purported handshake deal to form a partnership.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee Stein alleges that while sitting in the back of a limousine in or around April 25, 2019, Cross-Defendant Gary Winnick asked him to be his business partner.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 5.)   Stein alleges he agreed to be Winnick’s business partner because of the following representations which he called the “Winnick Representations”: (1) Winnick’s desire at his stage of life to have a meaningful business relationship and to build something interesting; (2) Winnick expressing that Stein’s relationship with XPrize Foundation and Singularity University and involvement and knowledge of groundbreaking technologies were invigorating to Winnick; (3) Winnick admitting to Stein that he was dissatisfied with his day to day business situation and felt that Stein was well positioned to bring Winnick into the world of exponential technology opportunities which had been foreign to him; (4) Winnick reinforcing to Stein that he and Stein had known each other for almost 30 years and that Winnick felt he could trust Stein, and (5) Winnick sharing with Stein that working together in these new and exciting fields would be a great new direction for Winnick.  (UMF No. 7.) Stein alleges he and Winnick did not reduce their partnership agreement to writing.  (UMF No. 10.)  Rather, they formalized their partnership agreement with a handshake on or about April 25, 2019 in the back of the limousine.  (UMF No. 11.)  According to Stein, the partnership was formed to “pursue business opportunities and projects together,” and they agreed to “jointly own and control the partnership and to share profits and losses.”  (UMF No. 9.)  Stein was to source the deals (UMF No. 17), while Winnick’s primary role was to provide funding (UMF No. 18). When the alleged partnership was formalized, there was no agreement on how many projects would be explored or how much money Winnick would actually fund.  (UMF No. 19.)  Stein and Winnick did not identify any specific opportunities they would pursue when the alleged partnership was created.  (UMF No. 20.)  Stein identified only one project they had in mind at the time, namely they were “talking about XPrize … about how Gary [Winnick] believed that XPrize should be a for profit brand, not … merely a not-for-profit brand.”  (UMF No. 21.)   Winnick and Stein formed Prize Solutions, a for-profit prize company that would work alongside XPrize.  (Stein Decl. ¶¶ 34-45.)  The Prize Solutions formation documentation shows “Gary Winnick Chairman 50%, Lee Stein Vice Chairman 50%.  (Plaintiff’s Ex. 17.)  The opportunity with XPrize floundered.  (UMF No. 25.) Winnick and Stein (with the help of Winnick & Co’s then-managing director Karl Katerndahl) then developed a second business venture with musician Pharrell Williams called Pharrellco & Winnickco (“Pharrellco”).  The business deck created for the investment indicated that Williams, Winnick, Stein and Katerndahl were all equity owners in the business.  While Stein’s equity was not equal to Winnick’s, this was because Winnick and Stein agreed for structuring purposes that Winnick and Williams needed to be equal parties and asked Stein to split his equity with Katerndahl.  (Stein Decl. ¶¶  68-74.)  This business also failed.  The only opportunity that “came to fruition” was an opportunity Stein and Winnick learned about nine months after the supposed creation of their partnership.  (UMF No. 29.)  Stein met Tyler Kratz, who shared with Stein an opportunity involving the acquisition of rights for frequencies in EBS spectrum (the “EBS Business Opportunity”).  (UMF Nos. 30-31.)  Stein introduced Winnick to Kratz but said he “could not vouch for him [Tyler Kratz].”  (UMF No. 34.)  Stein never told Kratz that Winnick and Stein were partners.  (UMF No. 35.)   Stein does not claim he had any control over decisions relating to the EBS Opportunity or that Winnick sought his consent in pursuing it on behalf of the purported partnership.  In fact, he contends the opposite.  According to Stein, Winnick told him not to communicate directly with Kratz (UMF No. 37), and Winnick set up WCO Spectrum LLC without Stein’s knowledge.  Stein did not learn that WCO had been formed until late October 2020, several months after its formation.  (UMF No. 36.)   As a thank you for introducing him to Kratz, Winnick offered Stein up to $1 million, depending on the success of the EBS opportunity.  (UMF No. 43.)  In response to the offer, Stein said nothing about any so-called partnership.  (UMF No. 44.)  Instead, Stein counter-proposed that he would receive up to $18 million.  (UMF No. 49.)  Stein prepared a written version of his counterproposal.  (UMF No. 50.)   His written counterproposal makes no mention of any purported partnership.  The recitals merely state that Stein and Winnick previously “agreed to explore potential transactions to collaborate on.”  (UMF No. 51.)  Winnick rejected Stein’s counteroffer.  (UMF No. 52.) Almost immediately after the rejection of his counterproposal, Stein formed a company to compete with WCO.  (UMF No. 53.)  The company was called Signal Flare.  (UMF No. 54.)  Stein caused several letters to be sent to EBS license holders indicating Signal Flare was interested in purchasing their licenses.  (UMF No. 55.)   WCO filed suit against Stein and Signal Flare.  (UMF No. 56.)  Stein counter-sued, alleging the existence of a partnership relationship.  (UMF No. 57.)  Cross-Defendants claim the cross-complaint was the first writing that identified the existence of a partnership.  (UMF No. 58.)  But Stein points to writings that identify or refer to the partnership.  (Exs. 17, 23, 25.)         This hearing is on Cross-Defendants WCO and Winnick’s motion for summary judgment or in the alternative for summary adjudication.  Cross-Defendants argue that the alleged partnership is an unenforceable agreement to agree, and no partnership was implied by the parties’ conduct.     REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Cross-Defendants request judicial notice of (1) Order for Probate: appointing Karen Winnick as executor and personal representative and authorizing her to independently administer the estate under the Independent Administration of Estates Act regarding the Estate of Gary Winnick filed on April 26, 2024 in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, case number 23STPB14079, and (2) Letters Testamentary: making effective the April 26, 2024 order for probate appointing Karen Winnick as executor and personal representative authorized to administer the estate under the Independent Administration of Estates Act regarding the Estate of Gary Winnick, as filed on April 30, 2024 in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, case number 23STPB14079.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(d) and 453. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  The Court overrules Winnick’s Objection Nos. 1, 3, 7, 13, 15, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 50, 52, 54, 59, 60, and sustains Objection Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31, 35, 39, 40, 41, 45, 49, 51, 53, 55, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67. LEGAL STANDARD  The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Minor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67).   As to each claim as framed by the complaint, a plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each essential element of the claim(s).  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the plaintiff has met its burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Id.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) DISCUSSION Handshake Deal Cross-Defendants argue that the purported back-of-limousine handshake deal is an unenforceable agreement to agree.  The Court disagrees. “[T]he association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners [of] a business for profit forms a partnership, whether or not the persons intend to form a partnership.” (Corp. Code, § 16202, subd. (a).)¿ A partnership exists “where there is an ‘agreement between the parties under which they have a community of interest, that is, a joint interest, in a common business undertaking, an understanding as to the sharing of profits and losses, and a right of joint control.’” (Bank of California v. Connolly (1973) 36 Cal.App.3d 350, 364;¿Simmons v. Ware¿(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1056.)¿  “The ultimate test of the existence of a partnership is the intention of the parties to carry on a definite business as co-owners.¿Such intention may be determined from the terms of the parties’ agreement or from the surrounding circumstances.” (Greene v. Brooks¿(1965) 235 Cal.App.2d 161, 165-166;¿Holmes v. Lerner (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 442, 454¿(“the rules to establish the existence of a partnership in [the Uniform Partnership Act] should be viewed in the light of the crucial factor of the intent of the parties revealed in the terms of their agreement, conduct, and the surrounding¿circumstances when determining whether a partnership exists”).)  A partnership can be created with little formality, so long as there is a basis for determining the existence of a breach and a rational basis for the assessment of damages.¿(Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199, 209, 215;¿Boyd v. Bevilacqua¿(1966) 247 Cal.App.2d 272, 285, 287-288¿(joint venture can be created with little formality and indefiniteness in details and may be implied from conduct of the parties).) Here, after close scrutiny of the record and construing the facts in the light most favorable to Cross-Plaintiff as we must, there is at least a triable issue whether Stein and Winnick had the requisite meeting of the minds to form a partnership based on both their words and conduct.  Stein attests Winnick told Stein “Let’s be partners,” and Stein responded by saying “50/50 like straight-up partners?”, to which Winnick responded “Yeah. Straight Up. This is important. It’s something I really want to do.”  (Stein Decl. ¶28.)  Stein and Winnick then shook hands, and Winnick “reiterated the terms that we would be 50/50 partners on all businesses that [Stein and Winnick] explored – that either [Winnick] brought to [Stein] or [Stein] brought to [Winnick]– and it became a viable business opportunity. The partnership was at the level of business opportunities consummated, and that each opportunity would be a subset of the partnership.”  (Id.) Stein and Winnick also took significant steps in furtherance of the alleged partnership.  They created Prize Solutions, engaged counsel to create formation documents, entered into NDA and Collaboration agreements with XPrize, and conducted several business development meetings.  Formation documents show Winnick and Stein as 50/50 owners.  (Id. at ¶¶34-45, Exs. 12-17, 35.)  They worked to develop Pharrellco. (Id. at ¶¶68-74, Exs. 26-28.)  Stein also introduced Kratz and the EBS Spectrum opportunity to Winnick and spent significant time developing the opportunity by researching the market and participating in hundreds of phone calls to develop the EBS Spectrum business.  (Id. at ¶¶78-95.)_Stein and Winnick traveled to New York to look into Wyoming business opportunities for the partnership.  (Id. at ¶¶58-65, Exs.21-23.)  Stein and Winnick explored numerous other business opportunities in the areas of FinTech, Israeli wind energy, agricultural genomics, Bacteriophages and bacteria, Synthetic Virology, Exposomics (Toxins), Microbiome, and Microfinance.  (Id. at ¶¶29-95, 122.)  While parties can form a partnership without a formal agreement to share profits (Holmes, 74 Cal.App.4th at 457), here, Stein alleges Winnick agreed to a 50/50 split.  (Stein Decl. ¶28.)  There was also a right to joint control.  Stein was to take the lead in sourcing deals that Winnick would then help fund.   An agreement to agree is very different from an agreement to enter into a partnership to pursue future business opportunities.  That the parties had not agreed on the specific projects the alleged partnership would pursue is immaterial.  After all, partnership agreements “must of necessity relate to acts to be performed in the future.”  (San Francisco Iron & Metal Co. v. Am. Mill. & Indus. Co. (1931) 115 Cal.App.2d 238, 247.)  This is like a private equity firm, which is formed not to pursue any single identified investment but to seek out and invest in numerous opportunities as they arise.    Holmes v. Lerner is analogous. There, Sandra Lerner was a wealthy businesswoman; her personal friend, Patricia Holmes, was not.  When the two women were traveling together, Holmes created a nail polish color Lerner admired.  After they returned from their trip, they sat at Lerner’s kitchen table, experimenting with nail polish colors.  The two women agreed to form a company, which became the popular Urban Decay brand.  They began to work together on their concept doing market research and meeting frequently to discuss the development of their business.  (Id.¿at pp. 445-447.)  Holmes participated in “board meetings” and worked in their warehouse without pay, but was increasingly marginalized.  (Id.¿at 448-449.)  When Holmes eventually asked to memorialize her partnership arrangement with Lerner, which she understood to be 50-50 coownership, she was told she had at most a 5 percent interest in the company.  (Id.) She sued, and a jury found Lerner and Holmes had formed a partnership and that Lerner had breached their agreement and violated her fiduciary duties.  (Id.¿at 451-452.) The¿Holmes¿court found the evidence supported the verdict and rejected Lerner’s argument that the oral agreement was too indefinite to enforce.  The parties’ oral partnership agreement was “evidenced by Lerner’s statements: ‘We will do . . . everything,’ ‘[i]t’s going to be our baby, and we're going to work on it together.’ . . . ‘We will hire people to work for us.’ ‘We will do . . . everything we can to get the company going . . .’  The additional terms were filled in as the two women immediately began to work on the multitude of details necessary to bring their idea to fruition.”  (Id. at 458-459.)  In rejecting the argument that the parties’ agreement was too indefinite, the court emphasized,¿“Holmes was not seeking specific enforcement of a single vague term of the agreement.  She was frozen out of the business altogether, and her agreement with Lerner was completely renounced.  The agreement that was made and the subsequent acts of the parties supply sufficient certainty to determine the existence of a breach and a remedy.” (Id.¿at p. 459.) Here, too, Stein is not seeking to enforce a single vague term of an agreement, but to prove the existence of a partnership that Winnick has completely denied.  And, also like¿Holmes, Stein and Winnick did not spell out all the details of their partnership in their discussions with one another, but agreed to work together on future deals sourced by Stein, discussed splitting profits evenly, and began working together to pursue potential opportunities based on that mutual understanding.  Their conduct supplied the details of their alleged agreement.   Okun v. Morton (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 805 is also instructive.  There, a minority partner in a restaurant enterprise brought an action against the majority partner for specific performance, declaratory relief, and damages.  The partnership agreement between the parties provided for a 20 to 80 investment ratio in the partnership's first restaurant and a 1 to 4 ratio for the payment of additional expenses.  The agreement also provided for the joint exploitation of “all future business opportunities” involving the use of the restaurant's name and trademark on a “mutually agreeable basis.”  (Id. at 818.)  However, the majority partner initiated such ventures without the minority partner's participation.  Following a non-jury trial, the trial court granted the minority partner specific performance and awarded him compensatory and punitive damages for fraud, breach of contract, and tortious breach of contract.  The Court of Appeal affirmed the grant of specific performance.  It concluded that the provisions as to the exploitation of future ventures were not so uncertain as to be unenforceable, and the parties’ conduct subsequent to the execution of their agreement and before any controversy had arisen was consistent with the existence of the agreement.   As with Okun, here, the parties agreed to participate together in unspecified and unknown “future business opportunities.”  The terms were necessarily broad to allow for unforeseen circumstances, including future deals that may arise, but were nevertheless certain enough to establish the partnership between the parties.   Boyd v. Bevilacqua (1966) 247 Cal.App.2d 272 is also on point.  There, option group members entered into an oral joint venture agreement with land developers and co-partners to develop land for commercial and multiple dwelling purposes. The co-partners exercised the option without conveying the land to the joint venture, and the option group members filed an action for damages. The trial court awarded damages and the land developers and co-partners filed an appeal alleging that the agreement was an agreement to agree in the future and was therefore unenforceable. The option group members contended that a sufficiently definite agreement was entered into because no essential part of the plans had been reserved for future agreement.¿ The Court of Appeal sided with the option group members, notwithstanding defendants’ contention that there was a mere agreement to agree since plans for the development of the area had not yet been made.  (Id. at 287.)  Similarly, here, even though Winnick and Stein had not yet made plans for which investment opportunities to pursue, they had entered into an agreement to pursue and exploit investment opportunities as partners. Defendant relies heavily on Bustamente v. Intuit Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199.  There, the plaintiff alleged the parties agreed they would launch a Mexican company, and “they would take all steps necessary to obtain adequate funding and to formally launch the company.”  The purported agreement was “in essence simply an agreement ‘to form and launch Inuit Mexico,’ by working ‘exclusively with each other and to continue working until the company was launched.’” (Id. at 210.)  The Court affirmed summary judgment, concluding such an agreement was not enforceable.  “Because essential terms were only sketched out, with their final form to be agreed upon in the future (and contingent upon third party approval), the parties had at best an ‘agreement to agree,’ which is unenforceable under California law.”  (Id. at 213.) The Court finds¿Bustamante¿distinguishable from this case.  First,¿Bustamante¿involved a motion for summary judgment on¿undisputed¿facts. (Bustamante, 141 Cal.App.4th at 208.)¿ Here, the facts are contested.  Second, in¿Bustamante¿it was undisputed that before the parties could enter a joint venture, investors needed to be located and financing needed to be secured.¿The parties had to work out their relationship(s) with¿third party investors¿and obtain their approval, including agreement to terms Bustamante himself represented as material, such as “the form and amount of [his] compensation; the extent, duration, and nature of his management role, if any; the amount of Intuit’s royalty; the equity percentage held by him, . . . Intuit, and outside investors, and the liquidity path for both Bustamante and investors.” (Id.¿at 211.)  As the court explained, “obtaining contractual¿business relationships with third parties was an essential condition that both parties understood was necessary in order to complete the negotiations and create a binding business relationship.” (Id.¿at 212.)  Here, there is evidence that Stein and Winnick agreed they would form a partnership to pursue future deals; they would work together to implement their partnership, and they would share profits equally.  Their agreement was not dependent on the approval or involvement of an outside party, nor does Stein concede there were material terms that had to be agreed upon before the partnership formed. Pacific Hills Corp. v. Duggan (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 806, is similarly distinguishable.  That case involves “a contract to create [a joint venture],” not “a contract creating a joint venture.”  (Id. at 812.)  The parties’ agreement in Pacific Hills was by definition an unenforceable “agreement to agree” because “[t]he agreement provide[d] that the parties [would] enter into a contract” whereby they would agree to deed a parcel of land.  (Id. at 809.)  Here, Stein does not allege the parties entered into a contract to create a partnership, or to enter into any future agreement, but that their agreement in fact created a partnership and they acted on that partnership over an extended period.    In sum, whether an express partnership existed is a disputed material fact that precludes summary judgment or adjudication. Implied Partnership As an alternative to his back-of-the limousine handshake theory, Stein alleges the existence of a partnership was implied by Stein and Winnick’s conduct.  Cross-Defendants argue there was no implied partnership because Stein and Winnick never exercised control or management of WCO and Stein never received a share of any profits of WCO.  The Court disagrees. “The intent to form a partnership may be implied from the conduct of the parties.”  (Lyon v. MacQuarrie (1941) 46 Cal. App. 2d 119, 124 (1941), abrogated on other grounds by Weiner v. Fleischman (1991) 54 Cal. 3d 476, 486, (1991); see also Laughlin v. Haberfelde (1946) 72 Cal. App. 2d 780, 785 (“The intent to form a partnership may be shown by the acts of the parties as well as by direct evidence.”); Lusher v. Silver (1945) 70 Cal. App. 2d 586, 588 (“[T]he fact of partnership depends upon the intention of the parties. To determine this intent… the actions and conduct of the parties may be considered.  All the evidence should be taken into account to support the finding.”).  Here, there is ample evidence to support the finding of an implied-in-fact partnership.  Both Winnick and Stein engaged in “management and control of the business,” “one of the primary elements of partnership.”  (Green v. Brooks (1965) 235 Cal.App.2d 161, 168.)  Stein and Winnick explored multiple deals. They brought ideas for investments to one another and discussed how to approach business contacts and considered ways to further the interests of the partnership. (Stein Decl. ¶¶122-123.) They spent countless hours discussing deals, including EBS Spectrum.  (Id. at ¶¶35, 90, 93, 95, 106, 118-120.)  And they held themselves out as business partners to third parties.  (Beynon Decl. ¶ 14; Mattison Decl. ¶ 15; Ansari Decl. ¶¶14-16; Hagel Decl. ¶ 13; Perlmutter Decl. ¶ 9; Strathdee Decl. ¶ 13.)  These facts create a triable issue on whether the parties entered into an implied partnership. The fact that Winnick asked Stein to step back and let him take the lead in discussions with Kratz, does not disprove the existence of the partnership.  “The fact that no complete control of any part of a partnership venture is vested in each partner does not negate the existence of a partnership since, by agreement, one partner may be given the duty of management of the enterprise or any part thereof.”  (Singleton v. Fuller (1953) 118 Cal. App. 2d 733, 741.)   Nor is the absence of express delegation of duties between Winnick and Stein evidence that no partnership existed.  On the contrary, “[t]he great majority of contracts… of partnership do not point out precisely what each party is to do under them.”  (San Francisco Iron & Metal Co., 115 Cal. App. at 246). Winnick and Stein worked together to find and secure deal opportunities for the partnership; it is of no import that they did not reach an express agreement on their respective duties. Cross-Defendants argue that “Mr. Stein does not allege that he and Mr. Winnick actually associated to carry on any business related to the EBS Business Opportunity,” and that “Mr. Stein had no involvement in the creation of WCO.”  (Mot. at 16-17.)  But Stein does allege that he and Winnick “associated” by forming a partnership, through which they carried on business related to the EBS Business Opportunity, and that he and Winnick spent many hours researching and discussing what eventually became WCO.  (Id. at ¶¶45, 86, 90.) The fact that Winnick formed WCO without Stein’s knowledge is not proof that no partnership existed; rather, under Stein’s theory, it is proof that Winnick violated the partnership agreement.  Cross-Defendants next point to the statutory presumption of partnership under Corp. Code § 16202(c)(3) and argues that because Stein “never received a share of any profits of a business,” he cannot “qualify for a presumption of partnership.”  (Mot. at 17.)  But Stein does not allege that he is entitled to a statutory presumption of partnership under that subsection of the Corporations Code, and that statute does not address implied partnership. A partnership may be implied from the conduct of the parties, a determination that is entirely separate from the statutory presumption under section 16202.  (Lyon, 46 Cal. App. 2d at 124; Laughlin, 72 Cal. App. 2d at 785; Lusher, 70 Cal. App. 2d at 588.)  Furthermore, the fact that Winnick took all the profits from WCO for himself is not evidence that no partnership existed; rather, under Stein’s theory, it is proof of Winnick’s wrongdoing.   In sum, whether an implied-in-fact partnership existed is a triable issue that precludes summary judgment or adjudication. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES summary judgment and summary adjudication in favor of Cross-Defendants WCO Spectrum LLC and Gary Winnick.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: August 12, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 