 Case Number:  23SMCV05468    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  205  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



SHEILA NASRE,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BENHAM KAZEMI MOVAHED, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV05468
 
  Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  DEFENDANT BEHNHAM KAZEMI 
  MOVAHED’S motion to 
  enforce settlement agreement 
  and request for award of 
  attorneys’ fees 
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Sheila Nasre and Defendant Benham Kazemi Movahed bought a property located at
603 North Doheny Drive, #2B, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (“Property”) with the
intent of cohabitating there together and holding it for long-term investment.  Shortly after moving in, Plaintiff and
Defendant began a brief romantic relationship which Defendant claims to have
ended.  Plaintiff thereafter decided she
no longer wanted to own the Property with Defendant and initiated a partition
action.  Defendant, however, desires to
maintain the Subject Property rather than having it sold.  Defendant currently resides in the Subject
Property, while Plaintiff moved out.  She
continues paying her half of the mortgage obligation, which remains in both of
their names. (Benham Decl. at ¶3).  Plaintiff
thereafter filed a complaint for partition. 
The
parties entered into a Settlement Agreement (“Agreement”) on February 21, 2024.
 (Ex. B to Schiffer Decl.).  The Agreement provided that “Defendant will
have ninety (90) days from the full execution of this Agreement [by May 21,
2024] to buy out Plaintiff’s interest by paying Plaintiff $175,334.95 and one
hundred twenty (120) days from the full execution of this Agreement [by June
21, 2024] to transfer title from Plaintiff and assume/refinance the existing
Chase loan.”  (Id.)  According to paragraph 24 of the Agreement,
“time is of the essence.  Timely
performance is an essential obligation under this agreement.”  (Id.) 
Loan
assumption was desirable to Defendant (who does not wish to sell the Subject
Property) since the interest rate at the time the parties purchased the Subject
Property was substantially lower than current interest rates.  Because of Defendant’s concerns that factors
beyond his control might affect the timing of those processes, the parties
incorporated a cooperation clause into the Agreement. (Ex. B Schiffer Decl., ¶2).

Since
the Agreement was entered into, the loan assumption process has taken longer
than expected.  Chase has provisionally
approved the loan for inclusion in its loan assumption program, but the
application remains pending final review and approval by Chase’s underwriter
which will likely need an additional 60-90 days.  (Benham Decl. ¶5.) 
The
source of the payoff funds to Plaintiff will be Defendant’s brother, Shahram
Kazemi Movahed (who will also be assuming the loan with Defendant and will be
on title with Defendant once the process is complete and Plaintiff is removed
from title).  (Shahram Decl. ¶2.)  However, because Shahram will not be on title
until the loan assumption process is complete, Shaham was uncomfortable paying
the buyout funds since he has no current interest in the Property, and
therefore no protection.  (Shahram Decl. ¶3;
Benham Decl. ¶4).  
On
May 20, 2024, counsel for Defendant shared this development with counsel for
Plaintiff and Defendant offered to pay either interest on the buyout funds or
Plaintiff’s half of the mortgage payment for the next 90 days so that the loan
assumption process can be completed.  Defendant
also offered to simultaneously list the property for sale (with no offers
accepted for 90 days) so that there would be no lost time under the listing
provision of the Agreement.  (Schiffer
Decl. ¶6.)  Plaintiff refused “any
extensions.”  (Schiffer Decl. ¶6, Ex. C).

Defendant
contends this position is counter to the language of the Agreement which
imposes cooperation obligations on the parties in Paragraph 2 as follows: “In
order to facilitate the buyout and loan assumption process, Plaintiff and
defendant must comply with any reasonable request of any lenders, agents,
insurance entities, HOA, county tax assessor, or anyone else reasonably
involved in the buyout and loan assumption process.  The parties shall also cooperate with one
another in the event that one party tries to assume/refinance the loan from
Chase.”  
Defendant
also claims Plaintiff has failed to pay her portion of the past due HOA dues,
property tax, and homeowners insurance despite repeated requests for those
payments by Defendant.  (Benham Decl. ¶
6).  Defendant argues this violates
Paragraph 4 of the Agreement which states, “The buyout amounts do not include
HOA payments and taxes of the property from January 1, 2024. The payments from
January 1, 2024, shall be split equally between the parties.” (emphasis added).  Defendant further claims Plaintiff’s failure
to pay violates Paragraph 25 which states that “the parties shall jointly
pay/obtain insurance for the subject property in a timely manner to satisfy the
loan condition of Chase.”  
This
hearing is on Defendant’s motion to enforce settlement and for attorneys’ fees.  Defendant argues that the Court should
enforce the settlement agreement pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §664.6, and pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the
Court should require that (1) Plaintiff allow an additional 90 days in which
Defendant may buyout Plaintiff’s interest in the Property and allow for the
loan assumption to be completed in exchange for Defendant paying either
interest on the buyout funds or Plaintiff’s half of the existing mortgage
obligation during that time; (2) Plaintiff pay her share of the property tax,
insurance and HOA fees, and (3) Plaintiff pay Defendant’s attorney’s fees and
costs as allowed under the Agreement.  
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code Civ. Proc. §664.6
provides, in pertinent part, as follows: “If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court
or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement.”  
In hearing a Code Civ. Proc.
§664.6 motion, the trial court may receive evidence, determine disputed facts,
and enter terms of a settlement agreement as a judgment.  (Bowers v.
Raymond J. Lucia Companies, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 724,
732.)  The Court may also receive oral
testimony in addition to declarations. (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994)
23 Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)  
The Court may interpret the
terms and conditions of the settlement (Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182
Cal.App.3d 561, 566), but the Court may not create material terms of a
settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have
previously agreed upon.   (Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick
(1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810). 
Strict compliance with the
statutory requirements is necessary before a court can enforce a settlement
agreement under this statute.  (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) 
The party seeking to enforce a settlement “must first establish the agreement
at issue was set forth ‘in a writing signed by the parties’ (§ 664.6) or was
made orally before the court.  [Citation.]”  (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 304.)  
The settlement must include
the signatures of the parties seeking to enforce the agreement, and against
whom enforcement is sought.  (J.B.B. Investment Partners, Ltd. v. Fair
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974, 985.)  “[A] writing is signed by a party if it
is signed by … [a]n attorney who represents the party.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 664.6(b)(2).)  
DISCUSSION
Defendant asks the Court to require that Plaintiff
allow an additional 90 days to complete the assumption process in exchange for Defendant
paying either interest on the buyout funds or Plaintiff’s half of the existing
mortgage obligation during that time.  This
motion runs counter to the plain language of the settlement, requiring
Defendant to pay Plaintiff $175,334.95 by May 21, 2024 and stating that time is
of the essence.  The Court cannot create
material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties
themselves have previously agreed upon. 
(Weddington Productions, Inc., 60 Cal.App.4th at 810).  
Defendant
points to the cooperation clause.  But
that only requires Plaintiff cooperate in the loan assumption process.  It does not countermand the requirement that
Defendant pay Plaintiff $175,334.95 by May 21, 2024.  In the event that Defendant made a timely
payment and then needed some more time to complete the loan assumption process,
he could possibly rely on the cooperation clause.  But he failed to make the required payment to
Plaintiff.  
Defendant
argues that the extra time he seeks is “consistent with the time of the
Partition of Real Property Act.”  But the
parties set a different time schedule in the Agreement, and Defendant cites no
caselaw which says that the parties cannot deviate from the time provided in
the Partition of Real Property Act, as the parties did here.  
Defendant
also asks the Court to require Plaintiff to pay her share of HOA dues, property
tax and home insurance.  Plaintiff points
out that Defendant himself has failed to pay any of these property expenses.  In any event, there is no provision in the Agreement
as to when these property expenses must be made.  As neither party has made the property
expenses, the Court declines to enforce these provisions of the Agreement,
particularly when there is no time limit stated in the Agreement.    
As Plaintiff has not been paid, Plaintiff
asks the Court enforce paragraph 2 of the Agreement which states “if Defendant
is unable to buyout Plaintiff’s interest and/or refinance/assume the loan
within the time set forth …. The Subject Property shall be listed on the
Multiple Listing Service for sale.  The
Parties agree to select the highest qualified bidding buyer within 90 days of
the listing date or which 45 days of the listing date if the highest qualified
bidding buyer matches or exceeds the listing price.”  (Ex. B to Schiffer Decl.)  Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Agreement, the
Court orders that the Property be listed on the Multiple Listing Service for
sale.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s
motion to enforce settlement and for attorneys’ fees.  The Court orders that the Property be listed
on the Multiple Listing Service within 30 days of this Order.    
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: August 12, 2024                                                    ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court
 