 Case Number:  23TRCV00315¿    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 15, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00315
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Robert Korbel Davis Jr.; Christine
Catherine Davis v. Milton Street Residential Acquisition, Inc. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Robert
Korbel Davis, Jr. and Christine Catherine Davis, Trustees of the RBR Davis
Family Trust Established April 5, 2022
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Milton Street
Residential Acquisition, Inc. (No Opposition)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       23TRCV00315–
Not Set.
                                                23TRCV04225
– Not Set 
                                                24TRCV00306
– Not Set 
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Consolidate  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
This motion
involves three cases. First, the present case, Case No. 23TRCV00315, Robert Korbel Davis, Jr. and Christine
Catherine Davis v. Milton Street Residential Acquisition, Inc., et al.. The
Second Case is Case No. 23TRCV04225, Davis v. Beedle. The
Third Case is Case No. 24TRCV00306, Gaitan v. Milton Street Residential
Acquisitions, Inc.. 
 
            Plaintiffs,
Robert Korbel Davis, Jr. and Christine Catherine Davis, Trustees of the RBR
Davis Family Trust established April 5, 2022 (“Plaintiffs”) note that on
February 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against Milton Street
Residential Acquisitions, Inc. (“MSRA”) in the present case (23TRCV00315.)
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a related action against Christine Price
Beedle (“Beedle”) (23TRCV04225). Plaintiffs contend that the MSRA Action and
Beedle Action are currently pending before this Court and share common issues
of law and fact as both cases arise out of the same alleged breach of contract
for the sale of real property commonly referred to as 628 Longfellow Ave.,
Hermosa Beach, CA 90254. Further, Plaintiffs note that on January 29, 2024,
Juan Gaitan (“Gaitan”) filed a complaint against MSRA and Beedle for breach of
contract and tortious interference with contractual relations. Plaintiffs
contend that the Gaitan case relates to the adjoining real property commonly
referred to as 626 Longfellow Ave, Hermosa Beach, CA 90254. 
 
            Plaintiffs in this action, as well
as Plaintiff Gaitan from Case No. 24TRCV00306 now, request this Court consolidate
these three actions because: (1) all parties stipulate to the consolidation;
(2) each of the above-captioned cases involves the same parties, witnesses, and
common questions of both fact and law; and (3) a single trial avoids
unnecessary costs and delays and will serve the interest of economy and
convenience. 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion to
Consolidate Actions. To date, no opposition has been filed. On March 7, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a stipulation to consolidate, signed by all parties. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part: 
 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who
have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C) Be filed in each case
sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The motion to consolidate: 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the
appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case; 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
(C) Must have a proof of
service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048, states in relevant part: 
 
(a)  When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(b)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a).)  
 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  
 
B.   
Discussion

 
Here, Plaintiffs argue
that good cause exists for granting this motion because all three cases involve
the same parties and arise out of the same defendants’ alleged breach of
contract and tortious interference with the performance of that contract by the
same parties relative to the adjoining properties. Further, Plaintiffs assert
that all parties stipulate to that requested consolidated cases be heard before
this Court, who currently presides over the lead case (the MSRA Action). Pursuant
to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048, this Court does find that each case, as indicated
by Plaintiffs contain common issues of both law and fact, and that good cause
does exist.
 
This Court notes that
the Plaintiffs in this MSRA have complied with California Rules of Court, Rule
3.350 by filing their notice of motion containing the list of all named parties
in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and their attorneys of
record. This Court also notes that the caption on Plaintiffs’ motion contains
the caption for all of the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case (the MSRA case) being shown first. Lastly, this Court notes that
this motion has been filed in each case sought to be consolidated. As such,
Plaintiffs have complied with the procedural requirements needed in a motion to
consolidate. 
 
Thus, this Court finds
the consolidation of the three cases is proper and in the interest of judicial
economy. This Court GRANTS this Motion to Consolidate. 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Consolidate the three cases of Case Nos.  23TRCV00315, 23TRCV04225, and 24TRCV00306, is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
give notice. 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 