 Case Number:  20STCV39311    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV39311




MOTION 


Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Maki Gruninger




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Mami Martinez



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Mami Martinez (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Maki Gruninger (“Defendant”)
individually and as the relator in a qui tam action under the California False
Claims Act.  Plaintiff took Defendant’s
default, and the court entered a default judgment against Defendant in its
order of January 4, 2024.  Defendant moves
to set aside the default and default judgment.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
A registered California process server purportedly
served Defendant on August 24, 2023 at 9:02 a.m. by personal service at 18910
Linnet Street in Tarzana.  (See Proof of
Service, filed August 29, 2023.)  In her
declaration, Defendant states she has never resided at that address.  (See Declaration of Maki Gruninger, ¶ 3.)  Further, Defendant declares the building
access record for Defendant’s place of employment reflects Defendant entered
the building at 7:10 a.m. on August 24, 2023 and remained in one area until
11:27 a.m. when she went to work in another area of the building that day.  (Id., at ¶ 4.)  In addition, defendant submitted the
declaration of Stephen B. Kass who stated he resides at the 18910 Linnet Street
address; Defendant never resided at that address; Defendant was not present at
that address on the day service was purportedly made; and no summons or
complaint was received by mail at that location addressed to Defendant.  (Declaration of Stephen B. Kass, ¶¶ 3, 5, 6.)
In opposition, Plaintiff has submitted the
declaration of, Edgar Javier Cusani (“Cusani”), a registered California process
server who purportedly personally served Defendant and mailed the process to
her at the 18901 Linnet Street address.  Cusani
states he “was shown the photograph of a woman, which [he] was told depicted” Defendant,
and the woman he personally served is the woman in the photograph.  (Declaration of Edgar Javier Cusani, ¶¶ 4-6.)  Cusani’s testimony is inadmissible in that he
lacks personal knowledge of whether the photograph depicts Defendant.  (Evid. Code, § 702.)
Plaintiff also advances the declaration of
her attorney, Jarrod Wilfert (“Counsel”). 
Counsel states Defendant’s husband provided Counsel with the photograph
that purportedly depicts Defendant.  (Declaration
of Jarrod Wilfert, ¶ 11.)  This testimony
is also inadmissible because Counsel lacks personal knowledge of whether the
photograph depicts Defendant.  (Evid.
Code, § 702.)  To the extent Counsel
relies on the statements of Defendant’s husband to authenticate the photograph,
those statements are hearsay.  (Evid.
Code, § 1200.)
Plaintiff also presents a statement of
decision from Defendant’s and her husband’s marital dissolution action.  In that statement of decision, the court
found Defendant had testified dishonestly. 
(Declaration of Jarrod Wilfert, Exhibit 7.)  Although the court can take judicial notice
of the court’s order in the dissolution action, the conclusions regarding
Defendant’s testimony in that action are hearsay and inadmissible.  (Evid. Code, § 1200.)  Further, even if the court assumes Defendant
testified dishonestly in that dissolution action, that is not pertinent to the
determination of whether Plaintiff properly served Defendant in this action.
Plaintiff contends Defendant must have known
about this lawsuit before Plaintiff served her. 
That is irrelevant.  If Plaintiff
did not properly serve Defendant, the default and default judgment against
Defendant are void.
The evidence presented in Defendant’s and
Kass’s declarations is sufficient to rebut the presumption given that service
by a registered process server was effected (Evid. Code, § 647).  Such evidence alone is also sufficient to establish
Plaintiff did not properly serve Defendant. 
That, combined with Plaintiff not providing contravening evidence that
Defendant was served with process, compels the court to find the default and
default judgment are void.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a); Tunis v. Brown (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069,
1077-1078.)  The court, therefore, grants
Defendant’s motion for relief from default and default judgment and,
accordingly, deems as filed the proposed answer Defendant submitted
concurrently with her motion.
Defendant is to give notice of this order and
file proof of service of same.