

 
            Defendant Shaghal LTD’s counsel – Frank
D. Rubin of the Law Office of Frank D. Rubin – seeks to be relieved as counsel
of record. 
 
            The motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Rubin has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a
supporting declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he is moving
to be relieved as counsel; he asserts that there has been a breakdown in communication with the last communication
occurring in January 2024 and was advised that the corporation was “shutting
down.”
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendant
via mail but explains that he has been unable to confirm the last known mailing
address despite calling and emailing the client. 
 
Additionally, trial in this matter is not set until May 27,
2025, and the next hearing is a Status Conference set for August 5, 2024. Thus,
no prejudice will result from granting this motion where there is adequate time
to retain new counsel. 
 
The Court will grant the motion to be relieved as counsel.  
 