

Hearing Date:             May 14,
2024
Case Name:                Ambrosio
v. Lithia Motors, Inc.  
Case No.:                    24STCV01887
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc. and DCH Torrance Imports
Inc.

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Lawrence Ambrosio

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the Complaint is sustained as to the first and third causes of
action and overruled as to the fourth cause of action. The
Motion to strike is granted. 


                             
            This case is an employment discrimination
suit. Plaintiff Lawrence Ambrosio (Plaintiff) filed
suit against his employers, Defendant Lithia Motors, Inc. and DCH Torrance
Imports Inc. for (1.) discrimination based on sexual orientation, (2.) sexual
harassment in violation of FEHA, (3.) retaliation in violation of FEHA, (4.) failure
to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation in violation of FEHA, (5.)
unpaid meal periods, (6.) failure to pay overtime, (7.) violation of Labor Code
sections 226 and 1174, and (8.) unfair business practices.
 
            On April 8, 2024, Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc. and DCH Torrance Imports Inc.
(Defendants) demurred
to the Complaint. Defendants also moved to strike allegations in the Complaint.
Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and the motion to strike. 
 
            The demurrer to the Complaint is sustained
in part and overruled in part. The motion to strike is granted.
 
            
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
First Cause of
Action for Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation and Third Cause of Action
for Retaliation in Violation of FEHA:  
 
            Defendants demur to the first and
third causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state a
claim because he has failed to allege any adverse employment actions. 
 
            To allege a cause of action for
discrimination based on sexual orientation, the plaintiff must provide evidence
that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance
suggests discriminatory motive. (Slatkin v. University of Redlands
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1147, 1158.) 
 
To
prevail on any retaliation-related cause of action, plaintiff must plead and
prove that (1) the employee engaged in a protected activity, (2) there was an
adverse employment action following the protected activity, and (3) there is a
causal connection between the two. (Flait v. North American Watch Corp.
(1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467, 476.) 
            “In California, an employee seeking recovery on a theory
of unlawful discrimination or retaliation must demonstrate that he or she has
been subjected to an adverse employment action that materially affects the
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, rather than simply that the
employee has been subjected to an adverse action or treatment that reasonably
would deter an employee from engaging in the protected activity.” (St. Myers
v. Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 318.) 
            Here, Defendants argue that the Complaint
fails to allege that Plaintiff suffered any adverse employment actions as
result of his sexual orientation and in retaliation for undertaking protected
activity. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
he has sufficiently alleged an adverse employment action. Specifically, he “was
subject to an adverse employment action by Zarin Haroon when Zarin Haroon,
knowing that Plaintiff was not interested in his sexual advances, ridiculed,
and treated Plaintiff rudely in front of the rest of employees.” (Opp., 5:12-15;
Compl., ¶¶ 24-25.) 
 
            These allegations are insufficient
to show an adverse employment action. 
            “A change that is merely contrary to the employee's
interests or not to the employee's liking is insufficient.” (Akers v. County
of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1455.)  “ ‘[W]orkplaces are rarely idyllic retreats,
and the mere fact that an employee is displeased by an employer’s act or
omission does not elevate that act or omission to the level of a materially
adverse employment action.’ [Citation.] If every minor change in working
conditions or trivial action were a materially adverse action then any ‘action
that an irritable, chip-on-the-shoulder employee did not like would form the
basis of a discrimination suit.’ ” [Citation.]” (Thomas v. Department of
Corrections (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 507, 511.) “The plaintiff must show the
employer's retaliatory actions had a detrimental and substantial effect on the
plaintiff's employment. [Citations.]” (McRae v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 377, 386; St. Myers v.
Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 318.)
            Here, the conduct alleged is
childish and churlish criticism of Plaintiff. However, these allegations do not
demonstrate any actionable change in Plaintiff’s employment conditions. (Pinero
v. Specialty Restaurants Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 635, 646
[“nitpicking” and criticisms of employee did not constitute adverse action
where plaintiff's “job responsibilities and title did not change, he was not
demoted, and his salary, bonus structure, benefits and all other forms of
compensation suffered no impact”].)
 
            Additionally, with respect to the
retaliation claim, Plaintiff has failed to allege any protected activity. 
            The retaliation provision of FEHA forbids an employer “to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under” FEHA. (Gov. Code. § 12940,
subd. (h).) That is, the person has engaged in protected activity. California
courts have generally held that in order to qualify as a “protected activity”
an employee's conduct must “demonstrate some degree of opposition to or protest
of the employer's conduct or practice based on the employee's reasonable belief
that the employer's action or practice is unlawful.” (Moore v. Regents of
the Univ. of California (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 216, 246.)
            “Employees need not explicitly and directly inform their
employer that they believe the employer's conduct was discriminatory or
otherwise forbidden by FEHA.” (Castro-Ramirez v. Dependable Highway Express,
Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1028, 1046.) That is, ‘an employee is not
required to use legal terms or buzzwords when opposing discrimination. The
court will find opposing activity if the employee's comments, when read in
their totality, oppose discrimination.’ ” (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th
at p. 1047.) “ ‘The relevant question ... is not whether a formal accusation of
discrimination is made but whether the employee's communications to the
employer sufficiently convey the employee's reasonable concerns that the
employer has acted or is acting in an unlawful discriminatory manner.’ ” (Yanowitz,
supra, at p. 1047.)
            Here, the Complaint alleges a single instance of sexual
harassment by Zarin Harron against Plaintiff; in response to this alleged
harassment, Plaintiff “was in disbelief after this sexual misconduct of
inappropriate touching and did not respond positively to Zarin Haroon.” (Compl.,
¶ 22.) There are no other allegations that Plaintiff reported this conduct to
any other person or otherwise communicated his opposition to Harron’s conduct aside
from not responding “positively.” 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the first
and third causes of action are sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Fourth Cause
of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination Harassment, and Retaliation in
Violation of FEHA:
 
            Defendant argues that the fourth
cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation
fails for the same reasons as the third cause of action for retaliation; that
is, there are no allegations of protected activity.[1]
 
            However, the failure to prevent
cause of action does not require that the Plaintiff engage in protected activity.
            Rather, FEHA makes it unlawful for an employer to fail to
take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment
from occurring. (Gov. Code § 12940(k).) A claim for failure to prevent
discrimination or harassment includes three elements: (1) plaintiff was
subjected to discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, (2) defendant failed
to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation,
and (3) this failure caused injury to the plaintiff. (Caldera v. Department
of Corrections and Rehabilitation (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 31, 43.) 
            Thus, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
overruled. 
Motion to
Strike Allegations in the Complaint: 
 
            The motion to strike seeks to strike
the punitive damages request from the Complaint. In particular, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff failed to identify a managing agent and failed to identify
any individual that may have had the responsibilities of a managing agent.
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “ ‘Something more
than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.
There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
“malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton.’” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser, Law of Torts].) Specific intent
to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the
defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or
conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925) 71
Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins
v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.)
Further,
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), provides as follows: “An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.”
Here, the
Complaint fails to allege any facts establishing conduct attributable to any
managing agent.[2]
In fact, the Complaint fails to identify any managing agent at all. 
            Thus, the Complaint fails to allege
facts sufficient to support the punitive damages request against Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc. and DCH Torrance
Imports Inc. in the Complaint.
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the Complaint is sustained
as to the first and third causes of action with leave to amend. The demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is overruled.  The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be filed and served on
or before June 14, 2024.
 


