  Case Number:  22TRCV01540    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
HL GROUP 2 LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
 
22TRCV01540




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] Granted




 
TRANG LUYEN, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                    October
7, 2024 
Moving Parties:                 Plaintiff HL Group 2 Limited
Partnership
Responding Party:            Defendant Huan Luyen
HEARING:                        Motion
to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted 
          
The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
          The
motion to deem request for admissions admitted is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff HL
Group 2 Limited Partnership filed the Complaint on December 20, 2022.
On August
17, 2023, following two sustained demurrers, the operative Second Amended
Complaint was filed alleging causes of action for slander of title, fraud,
intentional interference with contractual relationships, intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, and notarial negligence or
misconduct.
On August 6,
2024, Defendants Tranh Luyen, Truc Luyen, Huan Luyen, Loanco Mortgage Services
LLC, and Stephanis Lan Nguyen filed the Answer to the Second Amended Complaint.
On July 22,
2024, Plaintiff served Huan Luyen with a set of requests for admissions
numbered 20-49 on Defendant. (Boyko Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff
has received no response or declaration, nor has an opposition been filed to
the instant motion.
DISCUSSION 
RFA
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any
other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the
truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of
law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in
controversy between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.010.) “Within 30
days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests
are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).)
If a party to whom request for admissions
are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request
was directed waives any objections, including those based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) The requesting
party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted and for monetary
sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance before the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
          The
Court finds that Plaintiff has proven it is entitled to an order deeming the
truth of the matters specified in the request for admission, deemed admitted. Plaintiff
served the subject discovery requests on July 22, 2024, and Huan Luyen failed
to provide any responses. (Boyko Decl. ¶ 5; Ex. A). Huan Luyen has not
opposed this motion. The Court, therefore, orders that the truth of the matters
specified in the request for admission, as to Huan Luyen, are deemed
admitted. 
 
Sanctions
Sanctions are mandatory against the party,
the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the request
necessitated the motion to deem request for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule. 3.1348(a)
[the court can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed].) 
Here, Plaintiff
requests $1,068.91 in sanctions for costs incurred following Huan Luyen’s
failure to file a timely response to Plaintiff’s request for admissions. (Boyko
Decl. ¶
9.) To reach this number, Plaintiff’s counsel states that they spent 1
hour preparing the instant motion and 1 hour attending the hearing at $500 an
hour plus an estimated $68.91 in filing fees. (Boyko Decl. ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff raised no arguments against the imposition of sanctions.
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Huan Luyen is granted in the amount
of $1068.91. Sanctions are payable within 30 days of
service of this order.
          
 
 