 Case Number:  23TRCV02762    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
LAYLA
  KIFFIN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03439




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  GRANTED
 




 
JAGUAR
  LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; AUTONATION, INC.
  dba JAGUAR LAND ROVER SOUTH BAY, a Delaware Corporation; CONSUMER PROGRAM ADMINISTRATORS,
  INC. dba MOTOR WARRANTY SERVICES OF NORTH AMERICA, an Illinois Corporation;
  and DOES 1-50,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
7, 2024          
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Layla Kiffin
Responding
Party:      Defendant Carwell, LLC. dba
Land Rover South Bay 
HEARING: LEAVE TO
AMEND 
            The Court considered the moving
papers and opposition papers.
RULING
            The motion for leave to
amend is granted.
BACKGROUND
On August 8, 2022, Plaintiff Layla Kiffin
filed the complaint alleging causes of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act
- breach of express warranty, violation of Song-Beverly Act - breach of implied
warranty, violation of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, violation of Consumer Legal Remedies
Act, negligent repair, intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation,
and breach of contract against Defendant Carwell,
LLC, dba Land Rover South Bay.
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint.
 
On September 23, 2024, Defendant filed the
Opposition.
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
Reply.
 
Trial is set for April 1, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Code of Civil Procedure §473 subdivision (a)(1)
states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars and may, upon like terms, allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”   
 
Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and therefore, the courts have held that
“there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296–297; see also Ventura
v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend, and where the refusal also results in a
party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a
meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 543; see also Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“[I]t is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not
misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”] 
 
Pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where such
allegations are located. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(b) requires a separate
declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s motion is accompanied by a copy of the
First Amended Complaint “FAC” and a list of all changes made between the
Complaint and the First Amended Complaint. Furthermore, Plaintiff has also
provided testimony from Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the need for the
amendment. (Mann Decl.) Plaintiff seeks to amend the complaint because
discovery has uncovered new facts that would allow Plaintiff to augment and
expand Plaintiff's allegations against Defendant. The FAC also contains a new
request for punitive damages. Plaintiff states that Defendant will not be
prejudiced by the granting of this motion because Plaintiff does not seek to
add any additional claims, and Plaintiff sought Defendant's consent to file the
Amended complaint within two weeks of the completion of relevant discovery.
(Motion For Leave “MFL” p. 7,) Last, the trial is scheduled for April 1, 2025,
more than six months from now.
 
            In opposition, Defendant argues that the Notice of Motion
is deficient and, therefore, the instant motion must be denied. (Opposition p.
3.) The Notice of Motion and case captions must state the specific relief
sought, the reasons for it, and the grounds for issuance of the order in the
opening paragraph. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473; Cal. Rules of Court 3.110(a).)
The court cannot grant relief that differs
from what is stated in the Notice of Motion unless the parties have had the
opportunity to address new grounds without objection. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003)
107 Cal. App. 4th 1119, 1124-5.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to
provide any grounds upon which the Court can base an order in Plaintiff’s
Notice of Motion. 
 
            In reply, Plaintiff argues that while the Notice of
Motion does not reference Code Civ. Proc., § 473 subd. (a), the brief attached to the notice does, thus,
denying the motion based on these grounds “elevates form over substance” and
would go against the premise that leave to amend should be liberally granted. (Baxter
v. Riverside Portland Cement Co (1913) 22 Cal. App. 199, 201.)
 
            Code of Civ. Proc.
§473 subdivision (a) and California Rules of Court 3.110(a) state that the
grounds for the motion must be stated in the Notice of Motion. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473 subd. (a); Cal. Rules of Court 3.110(a).) Here, the Notice of
Motion fails to mention Code of Civil Procedure 473 subd. (a) but it is noted
in the Memorandum of Points and Authority. Therefore, given the very liberal
interpretation of the Code of Civ. Proc. §473(a) the Court finds the Notice of
Motion is not procedurally deficient and should not be denied on such grounds.
 
            Defendant also argues
that Plaintiff has failed to show sufficient evidence to justify the exercise
of the Court’s discretionary power. Defendant states that while Plaintiff lays
out a statement of facts, Plaintiff provides no declarations or citations to
any evidence justifying the court granting leave to amend.
 
            In reply, Plaintiff
lists the new allegations and supporting facts with citations to depositions
and other evidence. (Reply p. 3-4.)
 
            Leave to amend should
only be denied “where no showing is made to justify the exercise of the court's
discretionary power” (Baxter, 22 Cal. App. 199, 201.) Here, Plaintiff
has shown that discovery led to the uncovering of multiple misrepresentations
that had been communicated to Plaintiff during the repair process. (Reply p.
3-4.) All of these new allegations are supported with citations to depositions
and other evidence. Therefore, Plaintiff has provided legally sufficient
evidence to support the Court’s discretionary power to grant leave to amend.
(See, Baxter, 22 Cal. App. 199, 201.)
 
            Defendant also argues
that they will be prejudiced because Plaintiff seeks to add claims for punitive
damages and attorney’s fees. Defendant argues that this change will require the
redeposition of parties and further discovery. Furthermore, the addition of
punitive damages may drastically change the potential liability of Defendant.
Last, Defendant argues that we are nearing the trial date and Plaintiff wishes
to start the pleading stage again.
 
            In reply, Plaintiff
argues that the only new claim added was for punitive damages, which Plaintiff
decided not to plead until she had evidence to support the claim. Furthermore,
the trial is not set for another six months, and Plaintiff would be open to
allowing Defendant to re-depose Plaintiff if they wish to.
 
            Defendant cites Duchrow
v. Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1378-1379 to argue that it would be
prejudicial to allow a late amendment that drastically changes the liability of
a party. However, in Duchrow, the complaint was amended on the fourth
day of a five-day trial; here, there are six months until the trial, and
Plaintiff is open to allowing additional discovery. (See, Duchrow, 215
Cal.App.4th 1359, 1363.)  Therefore, the
Court finds the Defendant would not be prejudiced by allowing Plaintiff to
amend the Complaint.
 
            Last, Defendant
argues that the Court should not grant leave to amend the Complaint because the
proposed amendment for punitive damages would be subject to a Motion to Strike.
 
            California Civil Code
section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases
where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ.
Code § 3294 subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant
of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. (Civ. Code § 3294 subd. (c)(3).)  
 
            Here, Plaintiff
requests punitive damages for intentional misrepresentation and violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. In alleging these causes of actions, Plaintiff
states that Defendant represented to Plaintiffs that the car had a working
engine that could be serviced, the car was in good working condition, and that
Defendant kept accurate records of the repair history of the car. (FAC ¶ 86, 98.)
Furthermore, Plaintiff states that Defendant intended for customers to rely on
their misrepresentations to induce customers to have their vehicles serviced at
Defendant’s dealership. (FAC ¶ 100.) Therefore, Plaintiff has pleaded facts to
allege defendant has engaged in fraud, and thus, a claim for punitive damages
is justified.
            
Therefore, the
motion for leave to amend is granted.
 
Defendant also
requests that the Court shift all or most of any new discovery costs to
Plaintiff relying on Code of Civ. Proc. § 473 subdivision (a)(2). However, Code
of Civ. Proc. § 473 subdivision
(a)(2) refers to costs that occur from postponement of the trial. Here, there
has been no postponement of the trial. Therefore, Defendant’s request is
denied.