 On June 27, 2022, Plaintiffs Xuecheng Qian, Zhou Li, and Suhua Deng filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) breach of oral partnership agreement, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) conversion, (5) fraud, (6) accounting, (7) declaratory relief, (8)-(12) violations of the Labor Code, and (13) violations of the UCL.  The primary allegations of the SAC are as follows.  Plaintiffs entered into an oral partnership agreement with the Defendants to create a grocery delivery company.  Plaintiffs agreed to contribute labor and money to obtain shares of the partnership.  Despite providing labor and money, Plaintiffs never received anything.  Defendant Antonio Wu Zheng now seeks to compel further responses to her form interrogatories (“FI”) nos. 8.2(b)-(c), 8.3, 14.1, 17.1 (as to RFA nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9), 50.1, and 50.2 from Plaintiff Xuecheng Qian.The Motion is granted as to FI no. 8.2 because Plaintiff did not provide his employee title and did not provide the specific day his employment began. The Motion is granted as to FI no. 8.3 because Plaintiff should indicate the last day he worked, not merely the last month.The Motion is granted as to FI no. 14.1 because it cannot be that Plaintiff has no information as to whether “YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF contend that any PERSON involved in the INCIDENT violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation and that the violation was a legal (proximate) cause of the INCIDENT? If so, identify the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON and the statute, ordinance, or regulation that was violated.”With respect to FI no. 17.1:the response for RFA no. 2 does not make any sense because it states that there was an oral partnership agreement, which would seem to support that there should be an admission (not denial) that there was never a written partnership agreement; The answer for RFA no. 3 is nonresponsive; the response for RFA nos. 4-5 is sufficient; The response for RFA no. 6 is deficient in that there are no facts provided as to Plaintiff’s money investment other than that it was supposed to be $20,000; andthe answer for RFA no. 9 is nonresponsive. The Motion is granted as to FI no. 50.1 to the extent the answer for subpart (b) did not state “each part of the agreement not in writing.” The Motion is granted as to FI no. 50.2 because sufficient information is not provided as to the dates of breach.  That is, again, Plaintiff should indicate the specific days of employment (and not merely the months). In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth above. Defendant requests $2,535 in sanctions, but the Court awards $1,200. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 