 This is an action in which Plaintiff SK Rosgosstrakh Pao (“RGS”), a Russian insurance company, alleges that Defendant Danil Khachaturov, its former president, embezzled RGS’s funds through a fraudulent reinsurance scheme.  Motion for Approval of Letters of RequestRGS seeks for the Court to approve letters of request to Swiss authorities pursuant to the Hague Convention for the production of documents from VP Bank (Switzerland) LTD and Credit Suisse (Switzerland) AG.  These documents are bank records for Stalis, SA and Hansa Reinsurance Brokers AG, which are apparently dissolved entities.  RGS specifically seeks all account records from January 1, 2011, until December 31, 2017, and all documents relating to who opened and closed such accounts.  RGS contends that Defendant transferred millions of dollars from RGS to Stalis and Hansa.  Defendant opposes the Motion, arguing that RGS is seeking to avoid international sanctions to access financial information it otherwise would not be able to obtain for unknown purposes; RGS should have its own bank documents demonstrating fraudulent transfers; the letters may create international friction as the Swiss value privacy for their bank accounts; given existing sanctions, it is unlikely RGS can pay the Swiss for its document production; and RGS improperly demands “ ‘an explanation of reasons why [VP Bank and Credit Suisse] are unable to respond completely and a statement of whatever documents, knowledge, information or belief [they] possess’ [ ], ignoring that Swiss authorities reject ‘Letters of Requests for the purposes of obtaining pre-trial discovery’ that require ‘indicat[ing] what documents relating to the case are or were in [the target’s] possession or … disposal.’ ”“The Hague Evidence Convention provides for gathering evidence in one contracting state for use in another (i) by letters of request (or letters rogatory), addressed by the court of the requesting state to a Central Authority designated by the requested state, seeking assistance in obtaining evidence through compulsory process, Subsection (2)(a); and (ii) by commissions issued by the court to consular officers of the requesting state, or to specially appointed persons, directing them to take evidence in a foreign state, generally without compulsory process, Subsection (2)(b). Execution of letters of request from courts of another contracting state is required under the Convention, Chapter I. However, since taking evidence is a function regarded by many states as an official act of the foreign state, the Convention provides that contracting states may refuse to permit execution of commissions in their territory, or may give permission subject to conditions, Chapter II. Contracting states may opt out of Chapter II in its entirety, or with respect to one or more of its articles.”  (Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law § 473 (1987).)Previously, the Court tentatively ruled as follows: “Before the Court requests international assistance for a sanctioned entity, the Court would like some evidence that Stalis, SA and Hansa Reinsurance Brokers AG have any relevance to this lawsuit.  Counsel for Plaintiff submits a declaration indicating that investigation and discovery have led Plaintiff to believe Stalis and Hansa are involved, but nothing specifically is provided for the Court.  [¶] The Court also notes that the request that ‘Incomplete responses must be accompanied by an explanation of reasons why YOU are unable to respond completely and a statement of whatever documents, knowledge, information or belief YOU possess with respect to each request” seems improper because, as Defendant points out, Swiss authorities reject when “a person is required to indicate what documents relating to the case are or were in his/her possession or keeping or at his/her disposal’.(https://www.hcch.net/en/instruments/conventions/status-table/notifications/?csid=561&disp=resdn.)  The letters are also not provided with appropriate translations.  (Ibid.)”RGS has submitted a supplemental declaration in which it has provided amended letters rogatory with translations and “additional information pertaining to the respective relationships of HANSA REINSURANCE BROKERS AG and STALIS SA . . . .”  The instructions have also been modified to state: “Incomplete responses should be accompanied by an explanation of reasons why YOU are unable to respond completely and a statement of whatever knowledge, information or belief YOU possess with respect to each request.”  As to Hansa and Stalis, RGS states that “Plaintiff calculates that it transferred approximately EUR 90,633,000 to HANSA REINSURANCE BROKERS AG pursuant to Defendant’s scheme, of which at least EUR 4,256,000 was transferred to VP BANK (SWITZERLAND) LTD for HANSA REINSURANCE BROKERS AG” and “Plaintiff calculates that it transferred approximately EUR 120,205,000 to STALIS SA pursuant to Defendant’s scheme, of which at least EUR 21,063,000 was transferred to CREDIT SUISSE (SWITZERLAND) AG for STALIS SA.”Given this supplemental information and the fact that the records are directly relevant to establishing the flow of RGS’s cash and the identity of any potential beneficiaries, the Court will grant the Motion.  The only concern remaining is RGS’s ability to pay the fees associated with its request, which will be further discussed at the Motion hearing.  The related objection is overruled, but will be taken into account for the discussion as to payment.Motion to Compel Further Responses RGS seeks to compel further responses from Khachaturov as to its requests for production nos. 3, 33, 34 and 38. Request no. 3 seeks: “All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS RELATED TO each and every ACCOUNT into which YOU, or any PERSON acting on YOUR direction, have caused to be deposited or transferred any COMPANY FUNDS.” Request no. 33 seeks: “All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS RELATED TO the exchange of any DISTRIBUTIONS, ASSETS, funds, monies, payments, amounts, disbursements, dividends, consideration, stock, property, debts, or any form of remuneration whatsoever, between or among any of the following: YOU; VR CORP; HANSA; MOBILUS; STALIS; Rafael Hagopjanian; Armen Hagopjanian; Alisa Landy; Maria Ivanova; Nikolay Kolesnikov; Andrey Sheyn; Igor Mirovskiy; Nadezhda Veryasova; Alkhas Sangulia; Sergey Khachaturov; Nadezhda Klepalskaya; Svetlana Klepalskaya; Artur Aloyan; Sona Dalalyan; Gagik Grygoryan; and/or Jacob Westerlaken.” With respect to request no. 33, Defendant contends that the following individuals should be excluded as irrelevant: Alkhas Sangulia, Sergey Khachaturov, Nadezhda Klepalskaya, Svetlana Klepalskaya, Artur Aloyan, Sona Dalalyan, Gagik Grygoryan. Request no. 34 seeks: “FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the following PERSONS: YOU; HANSA; MOBILUS; STALIS; and VR CORP.”  “ ‘FINANCIAL STATEMENT(S)’ refers to any document that reflects, summarizes, or states the financial condition of a PERSON, including profit and loss statements, balance sheets, general ledgers, income statements, cash flow statements, or statements of shareholders’ equity.” Request no. 38 seeks: “All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS RELATED TO any and all ASSETS held for YOU or on YOUR behalf, or in which YOU hold any interest, whether direct, indirect, beneficial, held through a nominee, or otherwise, individually worth the equivalent of $5,000 or more.” The Motion is denied as to request nos. 3 and 38, which are overbroad and/or overburdensome. The Motion is granted as to request nos. 33-34, subject to temporally narrowing these requests to 2011 through September 2017.  These requests are relevant to establishing whether any of the individuals/entities listed therein possessed or benefitted from RGS’s money.  For request no. 34, it was sufficiently stated that Defendant did not have documents relating to Hansa, Mobilus, or Stalis (and VR Corp has apparently been excluded), but Defendant should provide documents relating to himself.     The Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses should be provided within 45 days.Motion to Seal RGS seeks to seal exhibits A-C of the declaration of Cheltsova filed in support of the above motion to compel further responses.  These are (a) an audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers, (b) a russian tax audit, and (c) an excel file showing cash flow.   Khachaturov does not oppose a sealing order, but has filed a response to indicate that RGS has taken inconsistent actions, for example by citing to the sealed information in its memorandum of points and authority without redactions.  Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)The Court finds that the subject documents contain confidential information relating to business practices and finances; this information should be sealed to protect proprietary interests and the privacy of third-parties; there is no other way to protect the information without sealing it; and the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored.  Therefore, the Motion is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 