 Case Number:  24STCV02921    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  37 CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV02921
CASE NAME:                        Llewellyn McCray v. East Coast/West Coast Logistics, et
al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant East Coast/West Coast
Logistics, LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Llewellyn McCray
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Stay
OPPOSITION:                        25 June 2024
REPLY:                                  01
July 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s
Motion to Stay is denied. Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On February 5, 2024, Llewellyn McCray (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Private Attorney General Act  (“PAGA”)
action against East Coast/West Coast Logistics dba The Gilbert Company (“East
Coast/West Coast”); HR Direct Services Inc.; HR Direct Services LLC; The GHR
Company LLC; The GHR Management Company; and Does 1 to 50. 
On May 2, 2024, Defendant East Coast/West Coast (hereinafter
“Defendant”) moved to stay this action pending the resolution of an action
filed in San Bernardino County entitled Fausto v. East Coast/West Coast
Logistics, LLC, et. al,
Case No. CIVSB2322813. Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is now before
the court. 
motion to
stay
 
I.         Legal Standard
When nearly identical
actions are in courts of different jurisdictions, the court in the second
action may, in its discretion and as a matter of comity, stay that action
pending decision in the first action.  (Thomson v. Continental Ins. Co.
(1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746 (Thomson); Mave Enterprises, Inc. v.
Travelers Indemnity Co. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1408, 1423; Gregg v.
Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 134, 136; Simmons v. Superior Court
(1950) 96 Cal.App.2d 119, 123-124.)  In doing so, the court should
consider “ ‘the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed solely
to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts
of other jurisdictions.  It should also consider whether the rights of the
parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because
of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the
stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already
advanced.’ [Citation.]”  (Thomson, at pp. 746-747.) 
“Under
the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction, when two California superior
courts have concurrent jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties
involved in litigation, the first to assume jurisdiction has exclusive and
continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties involved until
such time as all necessarily related matters have been resolved.  The rule
is based upon the public policies of avoiding conflicts that might arise
between courts if they were free to make contradictory decisions or awards
relating to the same controversy, and preventing vexatious litigation and
multiplicity of suits.”  (People ex rel. Garamendi v. American
Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 769-770.) 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice of records of any court of
record of the United States. (Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may
only judicially notice the existence of the record, not that its contents are
the truth. (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
Defendant requests
judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit A:
Operative Complaint, McCray v. East Coast/West Coast, et. al., Case No.
24STCV02921, Los Angeles County Superior Court, filed on February 5, 2024.
 
2)    
Exhibit B:
Operative Complaint, Fausto v. East Coast/West Coast, et. al., Case No.
CIVSB-2322813, San Bernardino County Superior Court, filed on September 20,
2023.
 
3)    
Exhibit C:
Notice of Related Case, filed by Defendant East Coast / West Coast, filed on
March 25, 2024.
 
Defendant’s request for
judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        Request to Stay Under Exclusive
Concurrent Jurisdiction
 
Defendant contends that this action should be stayed under
the doctrine of concurrent jurisdiction because staying the action will promote
judicial efficiency, prevent inconsistent judgments, and protect litigants from
duplicative and harassing litigation. In Shaw v.
Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 245, the appellate
court found that a court has the “power to stay a subsequent PAGA representative suit that
is wholly subsumed by a prior PAGA representative suit—i.e., where the second
suit alleges the same Labor Code violations based on the same facts and
theories as the prior suit [.]” (78 Cal.App.5th 245, 260.) 
Defendant asserts that the action pending in San
Bernardino County, entitled Fausto v. East Coast/West Coast Logistics, LLC, et. al, Case No. CIVSB2322813 (the “Fausto
Action”), is brought against all current and former non-exempt employees of
Defendant from July 27, 2022, to the present, which includes Plaintiff, and
alleges the same Labor Code violations. Accordingly, Defendant represents that
this action is completely subsumed by the Fausto Action. 
 
Plaintiff disputes
this assertion and asserts that the parties in this action and the Fausto Action
are not the same. Plaintiff asserts this action is not subsumed by the Fausto
Action because this action includes four Defendants that are not included
in the Fausto Action and no claims or penalties are sought against these
four Defendants. Moreover, this action alleges and seeks penalties for two
labor code violations not included in the Fausto Action. Accordingly,
the Fausto Action cannot afford Plaintiff the full relief sought here. 
 
Unlike the statutory plea
of abatement, the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction does not require
absolute identity of parties, causes of action or remedies sought in the
initial and subsequent actions. [Citations.] If the court exercising original
jurisdiction has the power to bring before it all the necessary parties, the
fact that the parties in the second action are not identical does not preclude
application of the rule. Moreover, the remedies sought in the separate actions
need not be precisely the same so long as the court exercising original
jurisdiction has the power to litigate all the issues and grant all the relief
to which any of the parties might be entitled under the pleadings.
 
(Plant Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 781, 788 (Plant Insulation).) 
 
Under the rule of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction, “exactitude is not required” meaning the parties and the remedies
sought need not be identical and what “is sufficient for the exercise of
equitable jurisdiction that the issue in both actions
is the same and arises out of the same transaction or events.” (County of Siskiyou v. Superior Court (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 83, 89; see also Franklin & Franklin v.
7-Eleven Owners for Fair Franchising (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 1168,
1175.)
 
First, the Fausto Action
encompasses Labor Code violations that occurred in August 2022 until January
2023, whereas this action covers claims from December 2021 to June 2023.
(Compare RJN Ex. B, ¶¶ 5, 39 with Complaint, ¶ 24.) Accordingly, this court is
not persuaded that this action is completely subsumed by the Fausto Action
because four defendants and two labor code violations are not part of the Fausto
Action and Defendants have failed to show that per the pleadings, the court
in the Fausto Action “ ‘has the power to litigate all the  issues and grant all the relief to which any
of the parties might be entitled under the pleadings.’ ” (In re B.S. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 183, 190 citing Plant Insulation, supra, 224 Cal.App. at
p. 788.) 
 
Defendant fails to show that the court in the Fausto
Action has the power to litigate all the issues in this action and grant
all the relief requested in this action such that the adjudication of the Fausto
Action would bar Plaintiff’s recovery in this action. Defendant fails to point
out what specific allegations in the Fausto Action Complaint extend
employer liability to the four other Defendants in this action. Furthermore,
Defendant fails to show how denial of a stay in this action “would duplicate court efforts, waste
resources, and potentially produce divergent results” given that the parties
are not the same and the Fausto Action excludes two Labor Code
violations not sought in the Fausto Action.   (Shaw, supra, 78 Cal.App.5th at
p. 262.) Consequently, this court is not persuaded that this action is
completely subsumed by the Fausto Action such that the rule of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction should be applied to stay the action. Lastly, Defendant
fails to show how a judgment in the Fausto Action would be a complete bar
to recovery in this instant action. 
 
            B.        Request for Discretionary Stay
 
“Granting a stay in a
case where the issues in two actions are substantially identical [citation] is
a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court.  ‘In
exercising its discretion the court should consider the importance of
discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party,
and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions. 
It should also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be
determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the
subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the
proceedings in the other court have already advanced.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Thomson v. Cont’l Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738,
746-747.)
 
The court finds that the doctrine of collateral estoppel exists to
protect Defendants from any cumulative and/or conflicting PAGA judgments such
that a discretionary stay is not warranted. 
 
Based on the above, the motion to stay is
denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s Motion to Stay is
denied. Defendant to give notice. 