 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-8-24
Case #23CHCV02662, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET,
LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Golden Hammer Ops, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant JETNET, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
·        
First Cause for Breach of Contract
·        
Second Cause of Action for Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Parol Evidence [Cross-Complaint, Paragraphs
43-45 and 51-53]
 
RULING: Demurrer overruled; motion to strike
denied.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 5, 2023, Cross-Defendant Golden Hammer Ops,
LLC (Golden Hammer) filed the complaint that began this action. Golden Hammer
filed that complaint against Cross-Complainant JETNET, LLC (JETNET) and two
other Defendants. Golden Hammer alleged causes of action for Misappropriation
of Trade Secrets, Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, and
Violation of California Computer Fraud and Abuse Act against JETNET.
 
On October 30, 2023, JETNET filed a cross-complaint
against Golden Hammer and Cross-Defendant Gregory Rowlee. JETNET alleges three
causes of action for Breach of Contract, Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations, and Declaratory Relief. In JETNET’s Cross-Complaint, JETNET
alleges that Golden Hammer breached an agreement between the two parties and
interfered with JETNET’s contract with another party, AWS.
 
Golden Hammer filed its demurer with motion to strike on December
5, 2023. In its demurrer, Golden Hammer demurs to JETNET’s causes of action for
breach of contract and intentional interference with contractual relations on
the basis that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action against Golden Hammer. In the motion to strike, Golden Hammer moves for
what it alleges to be parol evidence to be stricken.
 
JETNET argues in its opposition that its allegations
should not be stricken and that the two causes of action are adequately pled.
Golden Hammer argues in its reply that the Court should reject JETNET’s
interpretation of the Hosting Agreement and that JETNET has failed to
sufficiently plead the two causes of action.
 
Golden Hammer’s Request for Judicial Notice: 
For its first and second requests, Golden Hammer wants
the Court to take judicial notice of a work schedule and electronic signature
receipts that it claims are part of the Service Agreement and Hosting Agreement
referenced in the cross-complaint. Courts are permitted to take judicial notice
of agreements that are referenced in a complaint. (Align Technology, Inc. v.
Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6 [taking judicial notice of a
settlement agreement referenced in the complaint].) Based on this, the Court
grants these requests, but not for the purpose of interpreting the contract. 
 
Golden Hammer’s third request is for an electronic
printout of the standard contract terms for Amazon Web Services (AWS). Golden
Hammer requests that the Court take judicial notice of this document on the
basis that Golden Hammer reasonably believes that the contract that JETNET has
with AWS is the standard terms contract. Golden Hammer argues that information
available on publicly available websites is judicially noticeable pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(h)
because they concern matters that are capable of immediate and accurate
determination of their reasonable accuracy. However, what Golden Hammer is
asking the Court to take judicial notice of is a document which is at issue in
this matter. Golden Hammer is requesting that the Court determine the content
and legal effect of this document. However, not only are the terms of the
agreement in dispute, so too is whether Golden Hammer complied with that
agreement. (See Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-114 [hearing on a demurrer may not be turned into a
contested evidentiary hearing where the truth or proper interpretation of a
contract are disputable.].) The request for judicial notice is denied.
 
Golden Hammer’s fourth and fifth requests concern the
definition of “compromise” as defined by the National Institute of Science and
Technology’s Computer Security Resource Center’s Glossary, and the definition
of “compromised” as defined by Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Golden Hammer has
made this request pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(h), which allows the Court to take judicial
notice of sources that are subject to “reasonably indisputable accuracy,” which
includes treatises, encyclopedias, almanacs, etc. It appears from pp. 8-9 of
Golden Hammer’s demurrer that Golden Hammer has made this request for the
purpose of determining whether Golden Hammer’s systems were compromised so that
the contract may be interpreted. As discussed above, this level of contract
interpretation is not appropriate on demurrer. The Court will take judicial
notice of the definitions of compromise and compromised, but only for the
limited purpose of establishing the definitions of those terms, and not for the
purpose of interpreting the contract.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            First Cause
of Action
Golden Hammer demurs to JETNET’s First Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract on the basis that JETNET has not pled facts sufficient to
constitute this cause of action.
 
To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the 
contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the 
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Here, JETNET’s Cross-Complaint (CC) alleges (1) “The Hosting
Agreement was a valid and enforceable contract against Golden Hammer Ops.” (CC,
¶ 85.) The Cross-Complaint further alleges (2) “JETNET has performed all of the
terms, conditions, and/or covenants required of it 
under the Hosting Agreement, excepting those excused by or
prevented from being performed by 
Golden Hammer and Rowlee, including but not limited to
authorizing, directing, and funding the 
timely payment of all amounts owed thereunder.” (CC, ¶ 88.)
The Cross-Complaint also alleges Golden Hammer breached the Hosting Agreement
by (3) “disabling resources without them being infected, hacked, or compromised
in any way; failing to contact JETNET prior to disabling the virtual server or
give prior notice; disabling services without a reasonable belief of JETNET’s
violation of the then-current acceptable use policy, if any; failing to ensure
that resources were available as required under the Hosting Agreement; and
divulging JETNET’s confidential information in violation of the Hosting
Agreement’s confidentiality provision.” (CC, ¶ 89.) Specifically, the Cross-Complaint
alleges that Golden Hammer divulged information relating to JETNET’s public
forum operational data and wrongfully disclosed to third parties information
concerning an outage on the platform that JETNET uses. (CC, ¶ 56.) Lastly, the Cross-Complaint
alleges (4) “As a result of these wrongful disclosures in violation of the Hosting
Agreement, JETNET suffered significant harm, including but not limited to the
loss of a substantial number of receivers” and “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of Golden Hammer’s and Rowlee’s breaches, JETNET has been damaged in an
amount in excess of the jurisdictional minimum including as alleged above, in
an amount to be established according to proof at trial.” (CC, ¶¶ 58, 90.)
 
Golden Hammer argues that JETNET has not sufficiently pled
facts to allege a breach of Section 4(a) of the Work Order, a Breach of
Addendum A, or the breach of confidentiality obligations. In support of these
arguments, Golden Hammer engages in substantial contract interpretation and
puts forth its interpretation of the relationship between the Services
Agreement and the Hosting Agreement. In response, JETNET argues in its
opposition that it has sufficiently pled the breach of contract cause of action
given its interpretation of the contract and the relationship between the
agreements.
 
Where an agreement is ambiguous, so long as the plaintiff’s
(or cross-complainant’s) “‘pleading does not place a clearly erroneous
construction upon the provisions of the contract, in passing upon the
sufficiency of the complaint, we must accept as correct plaintiff’s allegations
as to the meaning of the agreement.’ (Citation.)” (Schmier v. City of
Berkeley (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 549, 558.) Furthermore, while a plaintiff’s
“interpretation of the contract ultimately may prove invalid, it was improper
to resolve the issue against her solely on her own pleading. ‘In ruling on a
demurrer, the likelihood that the pleader will be able to prove his allegations
is not the question.’” (Id.)
 
Based on the foregoing, unless JETNET’s interpretation of
the agreements places a “clearly erroneous construction” on the agreements,
then the Court must accept JETNET’s allegations as correct as to the meaning of
the agreement at this stage of the proceedings. The Court finds that JETNET’s
interpretation of the Hosting Agreement is not clearly erroneous. JETNET
alleges that Golden Hammer breached the Hosting Agreement in three ways: by
violating its obligations to maintain the confidentiality of the information
provided by ADSB-X/JETNET (CC, ¶¶ 55-57); by denying JETNET access to essential
information and date pertaining the ADSB-X Platform’s hosted environment (CC,
¶¶ 34-53); and by failing to comply with its obligation to ensure that the resources
were available to JETNET at least 99% of the time during any given month (CC,
¶¶ 54, 89). These are appropriate alleged breaches given the contents of the
agreements.
 
The allegations listed above are sufficient at this stage
for JETNET to maintain a cause of action for breach of contract against Golden
Hammer.
 
Golden Hammer’s demurrer to the First Cause of Action is
overruled.
 
            Second
Cause of Action
Golden Hammer demurs to JETNET’s Second Cause of Action for
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations on the basis that JETNET
has not pled facts sufficient to constitute this cause of action.
 
To plead a claim for intentional interference with
contractual relations, a party must allege that “(1) the existence of a valid
contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
that contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach
or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Ixchel Pharma,
LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141.)
 
In this case, JETNET’s Cross-Complaint has alleged that (1) “On
or about February 3, 2023, JETNET and AWS entered into a valid and enforceable
contract, the AWS Contract.” (CC, ¶ 92; see also, CC, ¶ 60.) Next, JETNET
alleges that (2) “Upon information and belief, Rowlee and Golden Hammer has
knowledge of the AWS Contract from multiple sources, including but not limited
to JETNET, Mr. Streufert, and others.” (CC, ¶ 94; see also CC, ¶ 61.) JETNET’s
Cross-Complaint also alleges that (3) on multiple occasions, Golden Hammer
denied JETNET access to information and data to which it was entitled on the Golden
Hammer servers and disabled accesses to the Golden Hammer servers that hosted
the ADSB-X Platform, with the intention to disrupt JENNET’s migration to the
new platform. (CC, ¶¶ 63, 64, 95.) Further, JETNET alleges that (4) these acts
of Golden Hammer did disrupt JETNET’s efforts to migrate the ADSB-X Platform to
AWS servers and made JETNET’s performance under the AWS Contract more expensive
than it would have been but for such conduct. (CC, ¶¶ 66, 67.) Finally, JETNET
alleges that (5) “As a direct result of the actions of Rowlee and Golden
Hammer, JETNET has been damaged in an amount in excess of the jurisdictional
minimum including as alleged above, in an amount to be established according to
proof at trial.” (CC, ¶ 99.)
 
First, Golden Hammer argues that JETNET has failed to
sufficiently alleged that Golden Hammer knew about its AWS contract prior to
committing the wrongful conduct. However, the Cross-Complaint clearly alleges
that upon information and belief, Golden Hammer knew about the contract, and
JETNET has even alleged that JETNET gave Golden Hammer advance notice of its
intention to migrate the ADSB-X Platform to AWS. (See CC, ¶ 37.) That is
sufficient at this stage of the proceedings to allege that Golden Hammer knew
about the AWS contract.
 
Next, Golden Hammer argues that the economic loss rule would
bar the claim because the tortious intentional interference with contractual
relations claim is substantially similar to JETNET’s breach of contract claim.
However, as JETNET argues in its opposition, the causes of action are
independent in the source and extent of the resulting harm to JETNET. Golden
Hammer’s alleged breaches of the Hosting Agreement damaged JETNET as the owner
of the ADSB-X Platform. Meanwhile, Golden Hammer’s alleged interference with
the AWS Contract damages the independent contractual relationship between
JETNET and AWS. The damages arise from Golden Hammer’s actions in relation to
two different contracts. The breach of the contract between JETNET and Golden
Hammer resulted in the loss of a substantial number of receivers for JETNET and
the loss of a return on JETNET’s monthly fees for hosting services that Golden
Hammer refused to provide. (See CC, ¶¶ 58, 78, 88.) Meanwhile, Golden Hammer’s
tortious interference with the AWS Contract resulted in JETNET’s performance
under that contract being more expensive, and in other non-economic losses,
including harm to JETNET’s reputation.
 
Finally, Golden Hammer alleges that JETNET does not
sufficiently allege that Golden Hammer performed an independently wrongful act.
In arguing this, Golden Hammer assumes a lot about the nature and terms of
JETNET’s AWS Contract. These arguments are tied to the Standard AWS Contract
that Golden Hammer requested that the Court take judicial notice of; a request
that the Court denied. Without the Standard AWS Contract, Golden Hammer’s
arguments on this issue fall apart. Accordingly, the Court finds that JETNET
sufficiently alleged an independent wrongful act for this cause of action.
 
Golden Hammer’s demurrer to JETNET’s Second Cause of Action
is overruled.
 
Motion to Strike
Golden Hammer has moved to strike Paragraphs 43-45 and 51-53
from JETNET’s Cross-Complaint. Golden Hammer’s basis for striking these
paragraphs involves the parol evidence rule and its interpretation of the
agreements between the parties.
 
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
The Court would note that motions to strike are typically
filed as separate motions from a demurrer with their own points and
authorities. CCP § 435(e) only mentions that motions to strike may be made as
part of motions filed pursuant to Section 438 (motions for judgment on the
pleadings), not as part of demurrers. That being said, the Court will address
Golden Hammer’s arguments for the motion to strike.
 
Golden Hammer argues that the Court should strike JETNET’s
allegations that Golden Hammer breached the Hosting Agreement because it failed
to provide JETNET with “full access”. Golden Hammer argues that JETNET failed
to define “full access” and that the Hosting Agreement is not reasonably
susceptible to the meaning alleged in the Cross-Complaint. (Demurrer, p. 5.)
This argument appears to be contradictory because JETNET cannot simultaneously
fail to define a term while also alleging a meaning for that term. 
 
Furthermore, as JETNET points out in its opposition, Golden
Hammer does not connect the basis for its motion with the six paragraphs that
it has requested be stricken. The term “full access” only appears in one of the
six paragraphs, Paragraph 52 (though variations of the phrase appear in
Paragraph 51). The term as used in Paragraph 52 appears to stand for the access
that JETNET should have been receiving to its platforms, not any sort of
contractual term for full access. JETNET even argues that the Paragraphs 43-45
actually narrow the scope of the relevant access because they mention the
“access that had been permitted to ADSB-X over the course of the Hosting
Agreement.” (CC, ¶ 43.) Paragraphs 51-53 are also relevant because they set
forth allegations concerning JETNET’s multiple requests to Golden Hammer to
restore access to aspects of the ADSB-X Platform; allegations that JETNET never
restored access in response to JETNET’s request; and allegations that neither
Rowlee nor Golden Hammer believed JETNET had violated Golden Hammer’s
acceptable use policy. All of these allegations are relevant to the causes of
action in the Cross-Complaint.
 
Finally, JETNET argues in opposition that Golden Hammer’s
interpretation of how the Hosting Agreement and Services Agreement work
together is incorrect. It is unnecessary for the Court to address this point,
as the Court has already found that Golden Hammer’s motion to strike is without
merit.
 
Golden Hammer’s motion to strike is denied.
 
Conclusion
Golden Hammer’s demurrer is overruled.
 
Golden Hammer’s motion to strike is denied.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.