 Case Number:  23STCV00238    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Stylenquaza, LLC’s Motion to Quash
Service of Summons is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs to
provide notice.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Defendant Stylenquaza, LLC’s
objections to the declaration of Raphael Metzger are SUSTAINED, as the
paragraphs objected to consist of legal argument, hearsay, or facts not within
Metzger’s personal knowledge concerning artificial stone and whether Defendant
operates the website at issue. 
II.               
MOTION TO
QUASH SERVICE  
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subd. (a)(1) states: “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes . . . (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” 
Mere notice of litigation does not confer personal jurisdiction absent
substantial compliance with the statutory requirements for service of summons.
(MJS Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 555, 557.)
While
courts are not required to accept self-serving evidence — such as declarations
that one was not served — submitted to support a motion to quash, facial
defects of the proof of service will rebut its presumption of proper service. (American Exp. Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) The
burden is on a plaintiff to prove facts showing that service was effective. (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)
Defendant
Stylenquaza, LLC (Defendant) moves to quash service of summons upon it on the
grounds that it lacks minimum contacts with California such that the state may
exercise jurisdiction over it. 
A defendant may serve and file a motion to
quash service of summons on the grounds of a lack of jurisdiction over him or
her. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10 subd. (a)(1).) A plaintiff opposing a motion to
quash service for lack of personal jurisdiction “has the initial burden to
demonstrate facts establishing a basis for personal jurisdiction.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) If satisfied, the burden then shifts to defendant
to show that exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Id.) 
A court may exercise jurisdiction on any
basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of California or of the United
States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) The exercise of personal jurisdiction is
constitutionally permissible only “if the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum
contacts’ with the forum state so that the exercise of jurisdiction ‘does not
offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” [Citations.]’
” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (“HealthMarkets, Inc.”) (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1166
[citing International Shoe Co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316].) A defendant’s conduct with the forum
state must be such that the defendant has “fair warning” that its activities
might subject it to personal jurisdiction. (HealthMarkets,
Inc., supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1166–1167; Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472.) 
“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant's conduct in the forum
state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there,
and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so. [Citations.] In contrast, contacts that are random, fortuitous,
or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general jurisdiction cannot
be exercised under these circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v.
Superior Court (“F. Hoffman-La Roche”)
(2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)
A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action. Absent such extensive contacts, a
defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction, meaning jurisdiction in an
action arising out of or related to the defendant's contacts with the forum
state. Specific jurisdiction depends on the quality and nature of the
defendant's forum contacts in relation to the particular cause of action
alleged.
 
(HealthMarkets, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) 
 
In determining whether specific jurisdiction exists over a
given defendant, “the appropriate inquiry is whether the plaintiff's cause of
action “arises out of or has a substantial connection with a business
relationship defendant has purposefully established with California.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 448.) “[A]s the relationship of the defendant with the
state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows more tenuous, the scope
of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured by limiting the
circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to appear and defend.
The crucial inquiry concerns the character of defendant's activity in the
forum, whether the cause of action arises out of or has a substantial
connection with that activity, and upon the balancing of the convenience of the
parties and the interests of the state in assuming jurisdiction.” (Ibid.)
 
It is the plaintiff’s initial burden to establish the
factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (ViaView v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209–10.) “Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it
becomes the defendant's burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies,
Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p.
449.) 
 
Defendant presents the declaration of An Nguyen, its manager
and co-owner, who testifies that Defendant is a Texas company with its
principal place of business in Dallas. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant is a
distributor of quartz slabs for Vicostone JSC, a Vietnamese company, and
distributes its products through Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, South
Dakota, North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin,
Michigan, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. (Nguyen
Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant’s distribution area does not include the west coast or
California, which has another distributor — Pental Granite and Marble, LLC —
employed by Vicostone JSC. (Nguyen Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) Defendant’s only engagement
with Pental’s west coast network is during emergency shortages, in which Pental
purchases quartz slabs from Defendant through a third party truck company, over
which Defendant lacks control. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 7.) Between 2018 and 2022,
Defendant supplied six shipments of stone slabs, amounting to a total of 22
slabs, to California, representing 0.001 percent of its product distribution.
(Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8.) On rare occasions Defendant has also distributed
“insubstantial amounts” of pre-fabricated tops to California, which are ready
for installation and do not require further fabrication. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8.)
Defendant does not otherwise do business or advertise in California. (Nguyen
Decl. ¶¶ 10–11.) It is Vicostone JSC, not Defendant, that operates the website
on us.vicostone.com that Plaintiffs Demetrio Luna Reyes and Guillemina Valdez
(Plaintiffs) cite in their First Amended Complaint (FAC). (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21;
FAC ¶¶ 317–321.)
 
Plaintiffs in opposition note that Defendant does business
in the United States under the name Vicostone USA. (Opposition at p. 8.)
Plaintiffs also argue that the Vicostone website lists several “regional
distributors for Vicostone product in California. (Opposition at p. 6.)
Plaintiff notes that the website “contains pages headed ‘Vicostone USA.’”
(Opposition at p. 8.) Plaintiff further cites distribution contracts between
Defendant and Vicostone JSC, which state that Defendant is an entity operating
“under the laws of the USA” and agrees “to distribute the Product in the USA.”
(Opposition at p. 8.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not shown that
Defendant purposefully availed itself of the benefits of doing business in
California. “Purposeful availment” requires contacts that are other than
“random, fortuitous, or attenuated,” or derived from the “unilateral activity
of another party or third person.” (Malone v. Equitas Reinsurance Ltd. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1430,
1437.) None but attenuated contacts have been shown here. Plaintiff’s reliance
on the website is rebutted by Defendant’s showing that the website is controlled
by a different entity, and that the California regional distributors identified
there are affiliated with a different entity. The sole evidence of Defendant’s
contacts with California having anything to do with the allegations of the FAC
consists of Nguyen’s acknowledgement that Defendant has distributed 22 stone
slabs to California, a region it does not ordinarily serve, and which quantity
represents a fraction of a fraction of its ordinary distribution. Purposeful
availment has not been shown.
Plaintiffs have not met their
burden to show that further jurisdictional discovery should be allowed. “In
order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery,
the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the
production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.” (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) Plaintiffs
contend that they have served jurisdictional discovery, but have received no
responses. (Opposition at pp. 13–14.) This appears to be false, however, as
Plaintiffs served this discovery on December 13, 2023, and Defendant served
responses on January 17, 2024, weeks before Plaintiffs filed their opposition
to this motion. (Reply Hale Decl. ¶¶ 3–4, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff attempts to argue
that more discovery is needed because of the purportedly “perjurious” testimony
submitted by Defendant in successfully challenging jurisdiction in another
toxic torts case in this county, in which Nguyen’s declaration contained a
statement omitted from his declaration in the present case: that “neither
Pental nor the [third party] truck company inform Stylenquaza of where the
products are sent ]and that] Stylenquaza has no knowledge . . . where the
products that Pental purchased from Stylenquaza are distributed.” (Opposition
at p. 13; Metzger Decl. Exh. E.) The court does not find the omission of this
statement indicative of perjury, or that further discovery would likely turn up
proof establishing jurisdiction. As Defendant stated in discovery responses
previously given to Plaintiffs, it has become aware that 11 stone slabs
purchased by Pental have gone to California. (Reply Hale Decl. Exh. 3, No. 4.)
Such contact, resulting from the actions of a third party distributor, does not
meaningfully contribute to any showing of purposeful availment. 
The motion to quash is therefore
GRANTED. 