  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial’s Motion
for Sanctions is DENIED.
Defendants to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS
 
In addition to any other sanctions permitted by
law, the court may order a person, after written notice and an opportunity to
be heard, to pay reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or an aggrieved
person, or both, for failure without good cause to comply with the applicable
rules. For the purposes of this rule, “person” means a party, a party's
attorney, a witness, and an insurer or any other individual or entity whose
consent is necessary for the disposition of the case. If a failure to comply
with an applicable rule is the responsibility of counsel and not of the party,
any penalty must be imposed on counsel and must not adversely affect the
party's cause of action or defense thereto.
 
(CRC Rule 2.30, subd. (b).) 
 
Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial seeks monetary sanctions
in the amount of $17,450 against Defendants Long Beach Memorial Medical Center,
Memorial Health Services, and Desiree Thomas (Defendants) and their counsel
Joshua Mino. Plaintiff identifies the basis for the motion as Defendants’
failure to include an affirmative factual showing justifying ex parte relief as
required under CRC Rule 3.1202, subd. (c), in Defendants’ ex parte application
to continue Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint, granted on January
17, 2024. (Motion at pp. 4–7.)
 
There is no cause for sanctions. The remedy for a
failure to provide adequate factual support to an application for ex parte
relief is to deny the application. Plaintiff had notice of the application at
issue and opposed it on the very basis he now offers for sanctions. (1/16/24
Opposition at p. 3.) This court found the argument to be without merit and
granted the application on January 17, 2024. Plaintiff’s argument is no more
persuasive the second time.
 
Defendants argue that
the court should set an OSC re: sanctions against Plaintiff on the position
that the present motion is without basis and is a defective motion for
reconsideration of the January 17, 2024 order on Defendants’ ex parte
application. (Opposition at p. 4, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (d); CRC
Rule 2.30.) No such proceedings are necessary. The motion is simple in its
factual and legal bases, and Defendant’s opposition memorandum is four pages.
The expense and burden of further sanctions proceedings on this motion is
likely to exceed the trouble it has already caused.  
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
 