

 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
alleges Defendants John Does 1-5 represented to Plaintiff that they had a
business license and operated an international logistics and currency
exchange.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
agreed to transport Plaintiff’s goods to the United States.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants in reality did
not have any license and Plaintiff’s goods were not transported to the United
States. The ‘statement of facts’ portion of Plaintiff’s complaint identifies
“Seth Inc” as providing services, but “Seth Inc” is not identified as a named defendant.  
 
            On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against “John Does 1-5”
alleging (1) fraud; (2) fraud; and (3) common counts.  
            
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court order non-party IDD (Int’l) Investment, Inc. (“IDD”) to
serve responses to the RFPs contained in the deposition subpoena served on
February 29, 2024.  Plaintiff asks that the
Court order IDD to serve responses pursuant to CCP §2025.450.  Plaintiff asks that the Court impose monetary
sanctions.        
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None as of May 13, 2024.  
 
REPLY
 
            None as of
May 13, 2024.  
            
ANALYSIS
 
            “Any party
may serve on any person a deposition subpoena duces tecum requiring the person
served to mail copies of documents, books, or records to the party's counsel at
a specified address, along with an affidavit complying with Section 1561 of the
Evidence Code.”  (CCP §94(c).)  There is no numeric limit placed on the
number of deposition subpoenas a party may serve in limited jurisdiction.  
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel responses to Requests for Production from non-party IDD (Int’l)
Investment, Inc. (“IDD”) pursuant to CCP §2025.450.  IDD (Int’l) Investment is a nonparty.  Plaintiff served IDD with a Deposition
Subpoena on February 29, 2024.  (Chen
Dec., Ex. B.)  IDD responded with a
letter indicating that it did not have any lease agreement with Plaintiff.  (Id.) 

 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs is denied for the following reasons:
 
(1) Motion improperly titled and cites to incorrect
authority
 
Plaintiff’s motion is entitled “Motion to Compel Responses
to RFPs” and cites to CCP §2025.450 as authority to compel.  Plaintiff’s motion is in fact a motion to
compel compliance with deposition subpoena. 

 
The authority to compel compliance with a subpoena is
located at CCP §1987.1 and to compel further response to a subpoena is CCP
§2025.480.  CCP §2025.450 does not apply
to subpoenas and only applies to deposition notices served on parties or their
affiliates.  
 
CCP §1987.1(a)
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.
 
CCP §2025.480(a)
 
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production. 
(CCP §2025.480(a).)
 
CCP §2025.450(a)
 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
 
(2)  Failure to
establish proper service of deposition subpoena or this motion
 
CCP §2020.220(b)
 
Any person may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a
copy of it as follows:
(1) If the deponent is a natural person, to that person.
(2) If the deponent is an organization, to any officer,
director, custodian of records, or to any agent or employee authorized by the
organization to accept service of a subpoena.
 
CCP §2020.220(c)
 
Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to
require all of the following of any deponent who is a resident of California at
the time of service:
 
(1) Personal attendance and testimony, if the subpoena so
specifies.
(2) Any specified production, inspection, testing, and
sampling.
(3) The deponent's attendance at a court session to consider
any issue arising out of the deponent's refusal to be sworn, or to answer any
question, or to produce specified items, or to permit inspection or
photocopying, if the subpoena so specifies, or specified testing and sampling
of the items produced.
 
 
IDD is a non-party and a business entity.  Plaintiff fails to submit evidence of proper
service of the deposition subpoena pursuant to CCP §2020.220(b)-(c). Plaintiff
was required to personally serve IDD’s officer, director or custodian of
records or any agent or employee authorized to accept service.  Unless Plaintiff personally served the
deposition subpoena in compliance with CCP §2020.220, the Court does not have personal
jurisdiction over IDD and cannot compel compliance.  Likewise, the Motion itself was served by
mail, which is insufficient give there is no evidence of personal service of
the subpoena on IDD.  
 
(3)  The deposition
subpoena was fatally defective
 
The subpoena must be directed to the “custodian of records”
or some other person qualified to authenticate the records.  (CCP § 2020.410(c).)  The subpoena must be delivered to someone
able to attest to the authenticity and trustworthiness of those records.  This is “more than simply a clerical task.”  (Cooley v. Sup.Ct. (Greenstein) (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1045.)  
 
The business records to be produced must be designated
either by: (1) “specifically describing each individual item”; or (2)
“reasonably particularizing each category.” 
(CCP § 2020.410(a).)  The subpoena
must provide a “specific description” of each item. But it need not provide
information obtainable only from the records themselves or from the deponent's
record system, “like a policy number or the date when a consumer interacted
with the witness.”  (CCP §2020.410(b).)  The categories of documents to be produced
must be “reasonably” particularized from the standpoint of the party on whom
the demand is made.  (Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Thiem Indus., Inc.) (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 222.
 
Plaintiff failed to direct the subpoena to the custodian of
records of IDD or some other individual at IDD who could authenticate the
records.  (Chen Dec., Ex. B.)  Plaintiff failed to complete Item 1 of the
deposition subpoena identifying the person to whom and location where the
documents were to be produced.  (Chen
Dec., Ex. B.)  
 
Plaintiff’s document categories did not specifically
describe the items to be produced or provide reasonably particularized categories
of documents.  Plaintiff’s RFPs seek information
pertaining to “John Doe 1-5.”  However,
Plaintiff’s definition of John Doe 1-5 is so vague and ambiguous that IDD would
be unable to respond.  Plaintiff defines
John Doe 1-5 as “Defendants,Operating without a Business License international
logistics and currency exchange at your property.” The definition is
incomprehensible.  
 
(4) Plaintiff is not entitled to discovery sanctions as a
pro per plaintiff
 
Plaintiff is in pro per. 
A pro per litigant may not be awarded discovery sanctions as
compensation for the time and effort expended as a result of opposing party’s
misuse of the discovery process.  (Argaman
v. Ratan (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1180-1181.)  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Chen’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for
Production (Set One); Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
Moving Party to give notice.