

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February
9, 2024, Petitioner Estella Williams (“Petitioner”), filed
an Amended Petition for Release of Property from Lien against Respondent AB
Renovations Corp. (“Respondent”). 
 
On March
6, 2024, this Court granted the Petition pursuant to Cal. Civil Code section
8490. 
            
            On
April 3, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant Motion for Attorney Fees as a
Prevailing Party. On April 22, 2024, Respondent filed its amended Objections to
Attorney Fees. On May 8, 2024, Petitioner filed a reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
moves for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $52,997.50 for 85.40
hours of work on the grounds that (1) the requested attorney’s fees are fair
and reasonable in light of the efforts of Petitioner’s counsel in obtaining the
result and (2) the requested attorney’s fees comport with the applicable law.
Furthermore, Petitioner contends she is entitled to recover attorney’s fees
under Civil Code section 8488(c) as the prevailing party in removing
Respondent’s Mechanic’s Lien even though Petitioner received pro bono legal
representation. Moreover, Petitioner contends the lodestar is the proper method
to calculate reasonable attorney’s fees.  
            
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Respondent objects to the requested attorney fees on the grounds
that the fees amount to little more than a conspiracy to bully and take
advantage of Respondent. Respondent further argues the fees do not comply with
the lodestar formula for calculating attorney fees because Petitioner’s primary
counsel has only been admitted to the bar less than one year ago, the case was
extremely small, the case lasted a week’s time, there was no opposition, and
the Petition consisted of two pages. As such, Respondent contends this was not
a complex case requiring $675.00 per hour. Moreover, Respondent contends the
Petition did not have a court date in its caption; Petitioner was given more
time by the Court to get a certified copy of the lien removal; Petitioner did
not verify the Petition as required by statute; and the necessary lien was
removed December 11, 2023, making the case moot. Respondent also asserts
Petitioner’s counsel did not check its entity status and there was no proof of
service on the original filing, which Petitioner was allowed to clear up by the
Court. Finally, Respondent asserts the law clerk took less than one hour but no
more than two to write a letter that was sent to Respondent demanding the lien
be removed. 
 
REPLY
 
            In Reply, Petitioner
argues her counsel incurred 62.70 hours of work over eight months conducting
witness interviews; filing the initial Petition; coordinating service of an
evasive Respondent; multiple informal settlement discussions, conferences, and
correspondence  with Respondent and
Respondent’s counsel; various requests with the County Recorder’s Office;
preparing for and appearing at the two hearings; filing an Amended Petition and
Reply; and ancillary matters initiated by Respondent. Furthermore, Petitioner contends
her counsel spent 22.70 hours preparing the Memorandum of Costs and the instant
motion. Moreover, Petitioner argues her counsel is a fourth-year attorney,
licensed in several jurisdictions and holds two law degrees with honors.
Similarly, Petitioner argues Respondent makes incorrect and irrelevant factual
assertions of standard hourly rates, attorney salaries, and the amount of time
necessary to prepare certain filings without any citation or support. Likewise,
Petitioner argues Respondent’s release of the Mechanic’s Lien did not render
the matter moot because Respondent did not voluntarily release the lien in the
time required and Petitioner was required to demand voluntary release prior to
filing the Petition. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Motion for Attorney’s Fees as Prevailing Party 
A.   
Legal Standard
Under Civil
Code section 8488, subdivision (c), the prevailing party on a Petition for
Release of Lien is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees. (Civ. Code § 8488,
subd. (c).)
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4), a “‘[p]revailing
party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
B.  Discussion
Here, Petitioner is the prevailing
party in this instant matter because Petitioner owns the subject property in
this case that was subject to Respondent’s mechanic’s lien. Furthermore,
Respondent had not commenced an action to enforce the lien against Petitioner
within the time provided in Civil Code section 8460, which states in relevant
part, “[t]he claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days
after recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not commence an
action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and is
unenforceable.” (Civ. Code § 8460.) As such, the mechanic’s lien was invalid
and Petitioner filed a Verified Amended Petition for an order releasing the
Property from Respondent’s Mechanic’s Lien. Ultimately, the Verified Amended
Petition was granted by this Court. Furthermore, Petitioner’s counsel upon
review of her billing records attests that a total of 85.40 hours of attorney
and paralegal time was performed in this matter for conducting witness
interviews, filing of the initial Petition, coordinating service for Respondent
who was evading service, informal settlement discussions and conferences,
preparing for and appearing at the hearings in the matter, filing an Amended
Petition and reply, and the other matters filed in this action to date. (Levandowski
Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.) Moreover, Petitioner’s counsel is seeking $675.00 per hour for a
partner and associate’s time expended in the matter and $350.00 per hour for a
paralegal’s time billed in this matter. The hourly rate requested by
Petitioner’s counsel appears reasonable in light of her level of experience,
namely, Petitioner’s counsel has provided evidence indicating she is licensed
in Colorado (May 2021), New York (April 2023), and California (May 2023).
(Levandowski Reply Decl. ¶ 2.) Also, Petitioner’s counsel holds a law degree
from both the United States and United Kingdom. (Id.) 
By contrast, Respondent’s objections
to the reasonableness of the attorney’s fees requested are premised on the
belief that Petitioner’s counsel is an attorney with only one-year of
experience, which has been refuted by Ms. Levandowski. Also, Respondent’s
objections are based on the assertion that the time claimed by Petitioner’s
counsel’s law clerk is unreasonable and the letter allegedly sent by the law
clerk only took one to two hours without any evidence to support such
assertion. Furthermore, Respondent’s opposition purports that there was no
discovery conducted in this matter and only the Petition was filed in this
case. As discussed above, Petitioner engaged in other efforts to secure the
desired result of an order releasing the lien, including interviewing
witnesses, participating in settlement discussions, coordinating service of
process, and initiating the action in the first place. Additionally, Respondent
cites no case or statutory law to suggest that pro bono attorneys cannot
recover attorney’s fees in a case. 
Likewise, Respondent appears to argue
that the Court erred in not dismissing this action because the lien was
purportedly released on December 11, 2023, which was after the case had been
commenced. However, as the Court noted in its February 5, 2024, Minute
Order, Respondent failed to provide any proof that the recorded lien had been
released. (2/5/24 Minute Order, p. 5). 
The Court further noted that Respondent fails to understand the purpose
of the instant Petition. There is a difference between a claimant’s right to
enforce a mechanic’s lien and a property owner’s right to an order releasing
the lien if it is found not to be enforced with 90 days of its recording.
Respondent’s claims that it did not sue or foreclose on Petitioner for the debt
owed due to a belief that either Petitioner would secure payment or Respondent
would be reimbursed for its labor and materials upon any sale of the property
is immaterial for the purpose of this Petition. (Id. pp. 5-6)
However, the Court finds that the
number of hours requested for the instant Motion for Attorney Fees and Petition
for Release of Mechanics lien at the firm rates to be unreasonable given the
duration of the matter, level of difficulty of the filings, and content of the
moving papers.  Therefore, the Court grants
Petitioner’s counsel’s request for attorney’s fees in part as follows: 5 hours
of attorney and paralegal time for filing the Motion for Attorney Fees and 20
hours for filing the Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien proportionately
billed in accordance with Petitioner’s counsel’s declarations, plus $1,307.66
in costs, for a total of $15,482.66.
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Accordingly, Petitioner Estrella Williams’ Motion for
Attorney’s Fees as the Prevailing Party is GRANTED in part in the amount of $15,482.66.

 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.¿ 
 
 
 