 Case Number:  24NNCV02199    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/22/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24NNCV02199
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: MARCUS STARK, an individual v. JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC,
a Delaware Limited Liability Company; RUSNAK/PASADENA, a California Corporation
dba RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR ; ANAHEIM HILLS JAGUAR LAND ROVER, INC., a
California Corporation; an DOES 1-25, inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC (Defendant, Movant, or JLRNA)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Marcus Stark
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Wong Declaration; Sangster
Declaration; 
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Evidentiary Objections;
Marcus Stark Declaration; Ahoubim Declaration; Request for Judicial Notice
Reply Papers: Reply; Corrected Declaration of Brandon
Sangster
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC ("JLRNA") will and hereby does
move this Court for an order compelling arbitration and staying this action
pursuant to code of Civil Procedure 1281, et seq.
 
This Motion is based on
the Arbitration Provision included in the Owner's Handbook for the 2023 Jaguar
F-Type, VIN: SAJD55FE7PCK81548 (“Vehicle”) which is the subject of this
lawsuit. This arbitration provision states, in relevant part that "any claim
or disputes between us…related to or arising out of your vehicle purchase…use
of your vehicle, the performance of the vehicle…the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or duties contemplated under the warranty,
including without limitation claims related to false or misleading advertising,
unfair competition, breach of contract or warranty, the failure to conform a
vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle’s purchase price…shall be
resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our election, even if the
claim is initially filed in a court of law. "
 
Further, pursuant Section
1281.4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, this case is under a mandatory stay
until this Motion is heard: “[i]f an application has been made to a court
of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to
arbitrate a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding
pending before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the
application for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such
controversy is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the
order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1281.4; see also Ross v. Blanchard (1967) 251 Cal.App.2d
739, 741 [“legal proceedings are not automatically stayed or dismissed but must
be stayed on motion” to compel arbitration.]; Marcus v. Superior Court
(1977) 75 Cal.App.3d 204 [Section 1281.4 “seems broad enough to vest the court
with authority to stay ‘the action or proceeding’ as to all issues, as to all
causes of action, and as to all parties, until the arbitration is
concluded.”].)
 
JLRNA therefore seeks to
compel arbitration between all parties and request an order: (1) that all
claims against JLRNA be arbitrated pursuant to the terms of the Arbitration
Agreement; (2) that stays of the entire action until the hearing on this Motion;
and (3) that stays of the entire action pending completion of arbitration.
 
This Motion is based upon
this Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Declaration of
Brandon Sangster in support hereof, the Declaration of Liana A. Wong in support
hereof, the pleadings and records on file herein, and such further argument and
evidence as may be received by the Court at the hearing on this matter.”
 
(Def. Notice.) [Pages in
Defendant’s Notice not numbered.]

BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Marcus Stark, filed the instant action on 6/11/2024 against
Defendants, Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability
Company; Rusnak/Pasadena, a California Corporation dba Rusnak/Pasadena Jaguar;
and Anaheim Hills Jaguar Land Rover, Inc.
 
The Complaint alleges
three causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied
Warranty, and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on
or about August 23, 2024, Plaintiff purchased a new 2023 Jaguar F-Type. (Compl.
¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that express warranties accompanied the sale of the
vehicle. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Movant, JLRNA, is a manufacturer and/or distributor under the Act.
(Compl. ¶ 24.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that both
Defendants, Rusnak/Pasadena Jaguar and Anaheim Hills Jaguar Land Rover, Inc., are
both retailers under the Act. (Compl.  ¶¶
25-26.)
JLRNA’s motion seeks to
compel all claims against JLRNA be arbitrated.
 
ANALYSIS
JLRNA
states that all new 2023 Jaguar F-Type vehicles distributed and sold in the
United States are shipped with a copy of the Owner’s Handbook in the glovebox
of the vehicle. (Sangster Decl. ¶ 4.) Contained in the Owner’s Handbook is
JLRNA’s Passport to Service which contains the arbitration provision that JLRNA
bases this motion on. (Id.)
 
In relevant part, the
arbitration provision provides:
 
If you purchased or leased your Jaguar
Land Rover (JLR) vehicle in the United States, you and we, Jaguar Land Rover
North America (JLRNA), each agree that any claim or disputes between us
(including between you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or
arising out of your vehicle purchase, advertising for the vehicle, use of your
vehicle, the performance of the vehicle, any service relating to the vehicle,
the vehicle warranty, representations in the warranty, or duties contemplated
under the warranty, including without limitation claims related to false or
misleading advertising, unfair competition, breach of contract or warranty, the
failure to conform a vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your
vehicle, or claims for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle’s purchase
price (excluding personal injury claims), but excluding claims brought under
the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, shall be resolved by binding arbitration at
either your or our election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of
law.
 
…
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN
THE UNITED STATES, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING
ARBITRATION PROVISION. 
 
BY USING THE VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR
ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED
UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. 
 
IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS,
PLEASE CONTACT US AT ARBITRATION-OPT-OUT@JAGUARLANDROVER.COM AND PROVIDE YOUR
VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (VIN) WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR
LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
(Mot. p. 2-3.)
 
CCP § 1281.2
In
relevant part of CCP § 1281.2:
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration
has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds exist for rescission of
the agreement.
 
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(b).)
 
The Court notes that JLRNA’s attached arbitration
provision does not contain signatures by either JLRNA or Plaintiff.
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court is not entirely
clear as to what Movant’s legal theory/argument is as to how it can compel
arbitration based on an arbitration provision that was not signed by either JLRNA
or Plaintiff.
 
The only argument that JLRNA’s motion argues with
respect to how this arbitration provision binds JLRNA and Plaintiff is that
under Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal. App. 4th 215,
219 (Condee) and CRC, Rule 3.1330, all JLRNA has to do to meet its
initial burden of establishing the existence of the agreement to arbitrate is
allege the salient portions of the agreement to arbitrate.
 
JLRNA cites to a portion of Condee which
states:
 
Rule 371 does not require the
petitioner to introduce the agreement into evidence or provide the court with
anything more than a copy or recitation of its terms. Petitioner need only
allege the existence of an agreement and support the
allegation as provided in rule 371. Both Longwood and Ira David
met this requirement. Once the petitioners had alleged that the agreement
exists, the burden shifted to respondents to prove the falsity of the purported
agreement.
 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
[The Court notes that CRC, Rule 3.1330 was formerly rule
371. CRC, Rule 3.1300 currently states, “A petition to compel arbitration or to
stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.]
 
Here, while JLRNA both alleged the existence of the
arbitration agreement and attached the arbitration agreement with the Reply, Condee
seems to focus on how the trial court in Condee erred by denying the
petition to arbitrate on the grounds that the agreement was not properly
authenticated. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
Condee does not address the
Court’s concern here as to how JLRNA is demonstrating the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate as between JLRNA and Plaintiff , where here JLRNA has
not provided a signed agreement to arbitrate, and where JLRNA does not explain its
legal theory as to how this arbitration agreement is between the instant two
parties.
 
“By stating that a party to an arbitration
agreement may petition to compel arbitration, the statute assumes that a
proceeding to compel arbitration will be between the signatories to the
agreement. (Marenco v. DirecTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1416
quoting Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614, fn. 6,
139 Cal.Rptr.3d 114.)
 
Here, there are no signatories to the arbitration
provision.
 
Because arbitration is a contractual matter, a party
who has not agreed to arbitrate a controversy cannot be compelled to do so. (Harris.
v. TAP Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 380.)
 
As further stated in Harris:
 
‘In California, “[g]eneral principles of contract
law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to
arbitrate.” [Citations.]’ (Pinnacle [, supra, 55
Cal.4th at p. 236 [145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d 1217]].) ‘An essential element
of any contract is the consent of the parties, or mutual assent.’ [Citation.] (Donovan
v. RRL Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 261, 270 [109 Cal.Rptr.2d 807, 27 P.3d
702] (Donovan).) Further, the consent of the parties to a contract
must be communicated by each party to the other. (Civ.Code, § 1565, subd. 3.)
‘Mutual assent is determined under an objective standard applied to the outward
manifestations or expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of
their words and acts, and not their unexpressed intentions or understandings.’
 
(Harris. v. TAP Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 373, 381.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not
established mutual assent. 
 
Plaintiff, Marcus Stark, submits a declaration that
states:
4. I was never given or presented with a
copy of the Owner’s Handbook/Owner’s Manual. Attached to my Declaration as
Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of the documents that were provided to me
at the time of purchase of the Subject Vehicle. 
 
5. During pre-sale communications with
RUSNAK/PASADENA dba RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR’s staff, I asked about the
manufacturer’s warranty. RUSNAK/PASADENA dba RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR assured me
that the Subject Vehicle was already warranted under Defendant’s express
warranty. At no point during these pre-sale communications was I ever informed
by RUSNAK/PASADENA dba RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR that any warranty claims against
Defendant after the sale would be subject to a binding arbitration provision
contained within the Owner’s Handbook/Owner’s Manual, that was presumably
delivered to me which I was required to opt out of.
 
6. I was never given notice by either
RUSNAK/PASADENA dba RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR or Defendant that a subsequent
enforceable Arbitration Provision existed inside an Owner’s Handbook/Owner’s
Manual that was presumably delivered to me around the time the Subject Vehicle
was delivered to me. Nor was I ever given notice by either RUSNAK/PASADENA dba
RUSNAK/PASADENA JAGUAR or Defendant that I was required to opt out of this
post-sale “Arbitration Agreement” within thirty (30) days of my August 23,
2023, purchase. I only became aware of the alleged post-sale “Arbitration
Agreement” and its opt-out procedures by virtue of the instant Motion. Thus,
prior to this Motion, I was completely oblivious to the post-sale “Arbitration
Agreement” that is allegedly buried within the Owner’s Handbook/Owner’s
Manual’s.
 
(Stark Decl. ¶¶ 4 – 6.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument – that Plaintiff
did not assent to the terms of the arbitration agreement – availing. 
 
In Reply, JLRNA does not argue that Plaintiff did in
fact assent. Instead, JLRNA’s reply argues:
 
Plaintiff uses the passive voice to claim
that he was “never given or presented” with a copy of the ownership manual or
otherwise informed of an arbitration provision. Pl. Decl., ¶¶ 4-6. However,
this does not preclude the Subject Vehicle containing the Ownership Manual when
he took possession of it. Indeed, Plaintiff has not declared under penalty
of perjury that the Subject Vehicle’s glove box did not contain the Ownership
Manual at any time during his ownership.
 
(Reply, p. 7-8.)
 
The Court does not find JLRNA’s argument availing
because JLRNA does not explain how its argument is legally relevant to
rebutting Plaintiff’s argument that Plaintiff did not in fact assent to the
arbitration provision. The Reply fails to address, with any sort of legal
authority, how the existence of the Ownership Manual in the glove box
demonstrates assent. 
 
Plaintiff opposed this motion on grounds of lack of
mutual assent (and submitted Plaintiff’s declaration), and while JLRNA’s motion
did no address assent [JLRNA’s motion seemed to simply argue that the agreement
between the parties existed because JLRNA attached the arbitration provision],
JLRNA’s Reply also makes no understandable argument rooted in legal authority
as to how Plaintiff assented.
 
Further, to the extent that JLRNA relied on Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal. App. 4th 1667, 1674 to argue that no law
requires that parties dealing at arm’s length have a duty to explain to each
other the terms of a written contract, JLRNA’s argument is unavailing because
in Brookwood Plaintiff signed the agreement at issue. 
 
Equitable Estoppel
JLRNA
also argues that it can enforce this arbitration agreement under the theory of
equitable estoppel. The doctrine of equitable estoppel applies to a written
agreement containing an arbitration clause when a party must rely on the terms
of the written agreement in asserting its claims. (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Sup.
Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.)
 
JLRNA argues that since the Complaint alleges the
existence of a written warranty, Plaintiff is thus basing its express warranty claims
on the written agreement (Ownership Manual) containing the arbitration clause. 
 
JLRNA’s argument is unavailing for two reasons. 
 
First, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege that the
express warranties are in the Ownership Manual. Plaintiff’s Complaint simply
alleged that express warranties accompanied the sale of the vehicle. (See
Compl. ¶ 10.)
 
Second, JLRNA argues that the Passport to Service in
the Ownership Manual contains JLRNA’s express warranties. JLRNA attached the
Passport to Service in its Reply declaration; however, the Passport to Service
did not provide express warranties. The Passport to Service provided the
Arbitration Agreement. While the Arbitration Agreement seems to provide that warranty
claims/disputes are subject to the Arbitration Agreement, the Arbitration
Agreement did not provide the existence of the express warranties for the
vehicle. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Movant
did not meet its burden in establishing a binding agreement to arbitrate
between the parties. Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
The Court notes that it
did not find Plaintiff’s Opposition availing with respect to Plaintiff arguing
that JLRNA’s motion failed on procedural grounds for failing to attach/authenticate
the actual arbitration provision in the moving declaration. (See Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 and CRC, Rule
3.1300.) Further, the Court considered the attached arbitration provision in
the Reply. 
The Court overrules
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections. The Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for
judicial notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 