  Case Number:  22STCV22831    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 9, 2024              TRIAL DATE: May
28, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Deborah Gollette, et al. v. Deborah
Ketcham, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV22831            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER SETTING DEPOSITION FEES OF PLAINTIFFS’ RETAINED EXPERTS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Chris Ketcham.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Deborah
Gollette and Rachel Gollette
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a landlord-tenant action that was filed on September 2, 2022.
Plaintiffs, who are tenants in apartments owned by Defendants, allege that
Defendants refused to repair numerous serious habitability defects on the
subject premises. Plaintiffs further allege that, following Plaintiffs’
complaints and an alleged citation by the City of Bellflower, Defendants retaliated
against Plaintiffs by serving an eviction notice.
 
Defendant Chris Ketcham moves for
an order specially setting the deposition fees of Plaintiffs’ retained experts.

            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Chris Ketcham moves for
an order specially setting the deposition fees of Plaintiffs’ retained experts.

 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.470 authorizes a party seeking to depose an expert witness to move for an
order setting the compensation of that expert if the party “deems that the
hourly or daily fee of that expert for providing deposition testimony is
unreasonable.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.470(a).) However, “[n]otice of this
motion shall also be given to the expert.” (Id [emphasis added].)

 
Although Defendant’s amended proof
of service filed March 1, 2024 states that this motion was served on
Plaintiffs’ counsel via email on February 1, 2024, none of Defendant’s papers
provide any indication that notice was served on the experts whose rates are
challenged. 
 
On March 8, 2024, the Court ordered
counsel for Defendant to serve the experts who are the subject of this motion
with the moving papers and to give notice to all parties in the
action, and continued this matter to April 9, 2024. (March 8, 2024 Minute
Order.) Three of Plaintiff’s experts state they were never served with the
moving papers. (Declaration of Monica Martinez ISO Objection ¶ 3; Declaration
of Jose Luis Barrera ISO Objection ¶ 3; Declaration of Chris Rocha ISO
Objection ¶ 3.) Defendant, in response, provides no proof that the experts were
served with the moving papers. Instead, Defendant merely claims that the
experts receiving notice of the hearing is sufficient to satisfy its statutory
obligations. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1010 expressly states that a notice of motion must be accompanied by any papers
upon which it is based if those papers have not previously been served upon the
party to be notified. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.) A notice of motion which is not
accompanied by these papers is deficient as a matter of law. (Weinstein v.
Blumberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 320-21 [motion to compel further
responses to deposition was untimely because notice of motion, although served
within the statutory time period, was unaccompanied by moving papers and
therefore deficient].) Moreover, notwithstanding the requirements of the
statute, the Court explicitly ordered Defendant to serve the experts with the
moving papers. Defendant did not do so. Defendant therefore is not entitled to
an order specially setting the deposition fees of Plaintiff’s experts.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for
Order Specially Setting Deposition Fees of Plaintiffs’ Retained Experts is
DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: April 9, 2024.                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 