  Case Number:  23AHCV02265    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONI.         INTRODUCTION
On September 29, 2024, Plaintiff
Damon Brown, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Bettye Brown (hereinafter
“Plaintiff”) initiated instant action against Defendant Gem Healthcare, LLC
(“Defendant”) alleging 1) dependent adult neglect, 2) negligence and 3)
violation of patients’ rights. The lawsuit arises from the care provided to
Plaintiff Damon Brown during his stay at Defendant’s nursing facility.
On January 3, 2024, Defendant filed
a petition to compel arbitration citing an arbitration agreement allegedly
signed by Bettye Brown during Plaintiff’s admission into the facility. On
January 17, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion arguing that Bettye Brown lacked
the authority to sign the arbitration agreement on behalf of Plaintiff Damon
Brown and to waive his right to a jury trial. Defendant submitted its reply on
July 15, 2024, maintaining that Bettye Brown, as Plaintiff’s conservator, had
the authority to bind him to the arbitration agreement.
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is now before the Court, with a rescheduled hearing for October 9,
2024. There is no trial date set. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §1281 provides: “A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter existing is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides
that upon petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate and a party’s refusal to submit
to arbitration, the court shall order the parties to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement exists, unless it determines that the right
to arbitrate has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation, or that a
party to the agreement is also party to a pending litigation arising out of the
same facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of fact or law. In such a situation, the court may (1) refuse to enforce
the arbitration agreement and order intervention or joinder of all parties in a
single action, (2) order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain
issues, (3) order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration
and stay the action pending outcome of arbitration, or (4) stay arbitration
pending outcome of the litigation.
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1330 provides, “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in
addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement
and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.”
Written arbitration clauses in
contracts evidencing a transaction involving commerce are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except where grounds exist at law or in equity for revocation
of any contract. 9 U.S.C. §2. This is a reflection of a liberal policy favoring
arbitration and the principle that arbitration is a matter of contract. AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.
The “involving” requirement is to
be interpreted broadly. Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 274.  
III.      ANALYSIS
            A. The
Existence of a Written Agreement to Arbitrate is Established
            When a petition to compel
arbitration is “filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself determine whether the
agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it
is enforceable.” Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (Rosenthal). “[T]he facts are to be proven by
affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence, with oral testimony taken
only in the court’s discretion.” Id. at 413-414. Defendant has submitted evidence of an Arbitration Agreement (“the
Agreement”) entered into by Plaintiff Damon Brown’s conservator Bettye Brown.
The Agreement specifically states: "The Resident and/or Resident's
Representative/Agent certifies that he/she has read this Agreement and has been
given a copy of this Agreement, and affirmatively represents that he/she is
duly authorized, by virtue of the Resident's consent, instruction and/or
durable power of attorney to execute this Agreement and accept its terms on
behalf of the Resident.” (Motion, p. 5.) 
Defendant argues that Bettye Brown, as Plaintiff Damon Brown’s
conservator, had the authority to sign the Agreement on his behalf. They assert
that her court-appointed conservatorship granted her authority over Plaintiff
Damon’s healthcare decisions, including admitting him to the facility and
signing the arbitration agreement. (see Exh. A),
Defendant further argues that the Agreement was optional, not required
for admission or treatment, and allowed for rescission within 30 days (Exh. B,
Art. 4). Additionally, the Agreement specified that it was governed by
California law and the FAA, and that it bound various parties, including the
resident’s representatives, agents, and heirs (Exh. B, Arts. 6-7). Defendant
emphasizes the Agreement’s clear warning in red ink, stating that by signing,
Plaintiff Damon Brown waived his right to a jury trial (Exh. B). Finally, they
argue that Bettye Brown’s signature on the document was an exercise of her
authority as conservator, thereby binding Plaintiff Damon Brown to the terms of
the arbitration agreement.
Although it is undisputed that Bettye Brown was Plaintiff Damon Brown’s
conservator and signed the arbitration agreement, the key issue is whether the
agreement is binding on Plaintiff Damon Brown. In Harrod v. Country Oaks
Partners, LLC, 15 Cal. 5th 939 (2024), the California Supreme Court held
that signing an arbitration agreement does not constitute a healthcare
decision. The Court explained that an agreement to arbitrate—being optional and
separate from the provision of healthcare—falls under legal rights and results
in a waiver of the right to a jury trial, not healthcare decisions. (ibid. at 958)
Similarly, in this case, Bettye Brown’s conservatorship granted her
certain powers to act on behalf of Plaintiff Damon Brown (Exh. A). However, the
conservatorship explicitly provides that “the Court grants only those powers
and imposes those disabilities that it has checked below” and that “No
additional power shall be granted nor disability imposed except upon a
duly-noticed hearing in which the necessity and propriety of the power or
disability is established” (Id.). This language clearly limits the conservator’s
authority to the specific powers set forth in the conservatorship document.
Since the document contains no express provision granting Bettye the authority
to enter into an arbitration agreement (or, for that matter, enter into any
legally binding agreements not involving health care), and the Harrod
Court found that signing an arbitration agreement is not a healthcare decision,
Bettye Brown did not have the authority to bind Plaintiff Damon Brown to the
arbitration agreement.
Moreover, unlike Gordon v. Atria Management Co., LLC (2021) 70
Cal. App. 5th 1020, where the power of attorney explicitly granted the agent
the authority to arbitrate and pursue litigation, Bettye Brown’s
conservatorship order is more limited. The order expressly states that the
Court grants “only those powers and imposes those disabilities it has checked
below,” and there is no checked provision authorizing Bettye to sign
arbitration agreements on Plaintiff Damon Brown’s behalf. (Exh.A) Therefore,
her signature on the arbitration agreement cannot be considered a valid
exercise of her powers as conservator.
Therefore, since Bettye Brown’s signature does not bind Plaintiff Damon
Brown to the arbitration agreement, the Defendant cannot enforce the Agreement
against Plaintiff Damon Brown.
Thus, Plaintiff is not subject to the Arbitration Agreement.
Accordingly, the petition to compel arbitration is DENIED.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant’s
petition to compel arbitration is DENIED.
            Plaintiff is
to give notice. 
          
Dated: October 9, 2024
 
                                                                                                  JARED
D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                           