 Case Number:  24AHCV00190    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; DENYING THE MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE
DAMAGESI.         INTRODUCTION
            On January
30, 2024, Plaintiffs Maxspeed Global Inc and Haiyang Ma (the “Plaintiffs”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Zheng You; Jianwen Huang; Aspeed Global Inc; J
Plus A Global Inc; Elements Therapeutic Massage Studio; AEK Logistics LLC; and
DOES 1 through 100 (the “Defendants”) alleging Defendants engaged in misappropriation
of business funds, self-dealings, and fraudulent transactions related to the
management and operation of their business Maxspeed Global Inc (“Maxspeed”).
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) contains thirteen causes of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duties,
(2) Breach of Duty of Undivided Loyalty, (3) Constructive Fraud, (4)
Conversion, (5) Waste of Corporate Assets, (6) Unjust Enrichment, (7) Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (8) Unfair Competition Under Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code 17200 Seq., (9) Intentional Interference With Prospective Economic
Relationships, (10) Accounting, (11) Declaratory Relief, (12) Constructive
Trust, and (13) Defamation Per Se.
            On May 13,
2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages from Plaintiffs’ FAC. On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
Defendants did not reply.
            Defendants
allege that the first through ninth causes of action fail to state sufficient
facts and the thirteenth cause of action fails to state sufficient facts and is
uncertain. Defendants also move to strike punitive damages.
            The
demurrer is overruled in its entirety, and the motion to strike is denied.
            
II.        DEMURRER
A. Meet and Confer
            CCP
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are
to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading
is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and
serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP
§430.41(a)(3).)
As an initial matter, the Court
notes that Defendants’ meet-and-confer efforts were sufficient under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, as Defendants’ counsel corresponded with
Plaintiffs’ counsel and on May 3, 2024 met and conferred with Plaintiffs’
counsel about the grounds for Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike;
however, the parties were unable to reach an agreement as to the issues raised
in the demurrer and motion to strike. (Chan Decl. ¶ 3.) Accordingly, this
procedural requirement is met.
 
B. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) Furthermore, demurrer for
uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so
bad that one cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Id.)
 
C. Demurrer to First through
Ninth Causes of Action
            Defendants argue
that for each of causes of action one through nine, Plaintiffs allege injury
solely to the corporation Maxspeed, and not to any individual, and thus these
causes of action must be pleaded derivatively. Defendants argue that because
Plaintiffs failed to properly plead these claims derivatively they are subject
to demurrer.
                        1.
Elements
            Because a
corporation is a separate legal entity, the shareholders have no direct cause
of action or right of recovery against those who have harmed it.  (Grosset
v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1108.)  In order to maintain a
shareholders derivative action, the plaintiff must allege he was a shareholder
or holder of voting trust certificates, or that plaintiff’s shares or voting
trust certificates devolved upon plaintiff by operation of law.  (Corps.
Code, §800(b)(1).)  In addition, “a complaint in a derivative action must
contain allegations that the plaintiff shareholder first informed the directors
of the ultimate facts of each cause of action and made a reasonable effort to
induce them to commence suit themselves or otherwise redress the wrong, or allegations
establishing that such efforts would have been futile or useless.”  (Grosset,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at 1107, fn.4.)
A derivative suit is “one in which
the shareholder seeks ‘redress of the wrong to the
corporation. [Citations.]’ [Citation] Thus, an action ‘‘is derivative,
i.e., in the corporate right, if the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the
corporation, or to the whole body of its stock and property without any
severance or distribution among individual holders, or it seeks to recover
assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of its assets.’
[Citations.]’ [Citation] On the other hand, a direct or individual suit by a stockholder
‘‘is a suit to enforce a right against the corporation which the stockholder
possesses as an individual.’ [Citation.]’ [Citation] A direct (as opposed
to a derivative) action is maintainable ‘only if the damages [are] not incidental to
an injury to the corporation. [Citation.]’ [Citation] And ‘‘[t]he two
actions are mutually exclusive: i.e., the right of action and recovery belongs
to either the shareholders (direct action) or the corporation (derivative
action).’’ [Citation]”).) (Bader v. Anderson (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 775, 793.)
 
                        2.
Facts Alleging the Elements
Plaintiff Ma alleges that after
Maxspeed was incorporated on September 1, 2021, he invested $23,000 in exchange
for 25,000 shares of common stock and soon thereafter his associate Jia Chuan
Zhu invested $30,000 in exchange for 25,000 shares of common stock. (FAC ¶ 22.) Plaintiff Ma further
alleges that he and Zhu were the only two directors of Maxspeed. (FAC ¶ 22.)
Lastly, Plaintiff Ma alleges the remaining 50,000 shares of Maxspeed’s common
stock are unissued and have not been sold to anyone; however, Plaintiff also
states that “until now” Defendants Zheng You and Jianwen Huang contributed no
equity investment to Maxspeed and were never shareholders of the company. (FAC ¶ 25.) On November 13, 2023,
Plaintiff Ma and Zhu met to “review the whole scheme plotted by You and Huang”
and evaluate the seriousness of business losses caused by Defendants’ alleged
misappropriation scheme.
                        3.
Analysis
After reviewing the FAC, the Court
finds Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded their first through ninth causes of
action. Plaintiff Ma alleges he owned 50% of the shares of Maxspeed along with
director Zhu, that he and Zhu met and discussed Defendants’ alleged
misappropriation scheme and thus chose to bring suit in the corporate name for
the injury to Maxspeed that Defendants allegedly caused. Given that Plaintiffs have
pleaded Plaintiff Ma and director Zhu are the sole directors and shareholders
of Maxspeed, no need arises for Plaintiffs to file a derivative action. (See
e.g., Anmaco, Inc. v. Bohlken 13 Cal.App.4th 891, 898 (finding that
a corporate president instituting litigation in the corporate name against the
other 50 percent shareholder requires board approval, pursuant to the
corporation’s bylaws).) Unlike Anmaco, where the corporate officer improperly
attempted to bring suit in the corporate name against the other 50 percent
shareholder, here, Plaintiff Ma alleges that he and director Zhu are the sole directors
of Maxspeed and they bring suit in the corporate name against Defendants whom
they allege own no shares. At the pleading stage, the Court takes Plaintiffs’
allegations as true and finds Plaintiffs have pleaded sufficient facts showing they
have the authority as Maxspeed’s sole directors to bring suit in its name
against Defendants.
Defendants argue secondarily that in
the FAC Plaintiffs failed to separate direct claims from derivative claims and
improperly include both. (Def. Demurrer 9:3-15.) After reviewing the FAC, the Court
notes that Plaintiffs amended their initial complaint to clarify that Plaintiff
Maxspeed alone brings the first through ninth causes of action, and not both
Plaintiff Ma and Maxspeed, satisfying the mutual exclusivity requirement set
out in Bader (“[T]he right of action and recovery belongs either to the
shareholders or the corporation.” (Bader, 179 Cal.App.4th at 793.)).
 Accordingly, the FAC properly pleads the
first through ninth causes of action solely on behalf of Plaintiff Maxspeed
and, on its face, sufficiently alleges Plaintiffs’ authority to do so.
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES
the demurrer to the First through Ninth Causes of Action.
 
            D.
Demurrer to Thirteenth Cause of Action
Defendants contend that this cause
of action similarly fails because the alleged defamatory statements directly
relate to Maxspeed’s business and thus damages relate to the corporation and
not Plaintiff Ma individually. Defendants also contend this cause of action
fails because it is uncertain.
                        1.
Elements 
“The elements of a defamation claim
are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and
(5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. The defamatory
statement must specifically refer to, or be of and concerning, the plaintiff.”
(John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312, quotation marks and citation omitted.) “Defamation
requires both falsity and injury to reputation; the defamation per se analysis focuses
on injury to reputation, and even if context is need to show falsity it might
not be needed for reputational harm. [Citations.] But a harmful meaning must
still be clear to constitute defamation per se.” (Balla v. Hall (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 652, 690.) “[S]tatements of opinion are protected by the First
Amendment. Thus, to be actionable, an allegedly defamatory statement must make
an assertion of fact that is provably false. […] The test, in California, to
determine whether an allegedly defamatory statement is fact or opinion is a
‘totality of the circumstances test.’ [Citations.]” (John Doe 2, 1 Cal.App.5th at 1313.)
2. Analysis
Defendants argue that the
thirteenth cause of action lacks context necessary to respond to Plaintiffs’ claim
of defamation and determine whether and to what extent defenses, such as
privilege, may apply. The Court thus limits its analysis to the issues of context
and uncertainty. First, Plaintiffs pleaded several quoted statements that
Defendants You and Huang allegedly both made “to Maxspeed’s clients and
Plaintiff Ma’s friends” but provided no further facts as to when, where, or in
what context Defendants made the statements. (FAC ¶ 112.) Unlike in John Doe
2, where plaintiff visual effects company pleaded the defendant’s statements
regarding plaintiff’s business in context allowing the court to find the
statements were not reasonably susceptible to interpretation as defamatory statements
of fact, here, Plaintiffs provide no context for the Defendants’ statements. (Ibid.)
Unlike John Doe 2 where defendant’s emails contained the alleged defamatory
statements providing context to the statements, here, Plaintiffs provide no
record or facts as to whether Defendants’ alleged comments were statements of
fact or protected opinion. This lack of context hinders Defendants’ ability to
respond to this cause of action; however, similar to Balla, where the
defendant’s statements pertained to plaintiff’s business and were thus found defamatory
per se, here, the alleged statements clearly refer to Plaintiff Ma’s
business showing a clear harmful meaning requiring no further context. Though
ambiguities remain around the alleged defamatory statements, the Court in its
discretion, finds such ambiguities can be clarified through the discovery
process and the uncertainty here insufficient to justify demurrer.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Thirteenth Cause of Action.
 
III.      MOTION TO STRIKE
            A. Legal Standard
                        1. Motions to Strike
            The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When
the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768.)
 
            Code Civ.
Proc. §431.10:
“(a) A material allegation in a
pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or
defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of
a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”              
                        2.
Punitive Damages
            “‘In order
to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth
the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code
section 3294.’ (Citation.)” (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) In
addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where “it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294,¿subd. (a).)¿ Courts have viewed despicable
conduct as conduct “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702,
715.)  
            Civ. Code
§3294: 
(a) In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
(c) As used in this section, the
following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
B. Motion to Strike is Denied 
After reviewing the FAC, the Court
finds Plaintiff sufficiently alleges facts warranting punitive damages. Plaintiff
alleges over fifty-eight specific instances of conduct involving deceit,
fraudulent transactions and misappropriate of business funds. (FAC ¶ 35.) For
example, Plaintiff alleges Defendant You and Huang intentionally failed to
provide an accounting of business funds when requested by Plaintiff Ma, made
numerous unauthorized withdrawals of business funds for personal benefit, and
opened a separate bank account under Maxspeed’s name for personal use. (Ibid.)
Such facts as alleged suggest Defendants acted repeatedly with deceit and intentional
misrepresentations to defraud Maxspeed. Such conduct meets the statutory
definition of fraud and certainly rises to the type of conduct that would be
“so vile, base contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome” as to warrant
punitive damages. (Scott, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 715.)
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is DENIED.
 
V.        CONCLUSION
             
            For the
foregoing reasons, the demurrer is OVERRULED and the motion to strike is DENIED.
            Plaintiffs
to give notice of this order.
            
Dated: October 9, 2024                                  
 
 
 
                                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 