 Case Number:  21STCV37594    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL PMK DEPOSTION AND TO CONTINUE DEFENDANT’S MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 10/2/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV37594 ANNA VASERFIRER, et al. vs UBER
TECHNOLOGIES, INC. et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Uber Technologies
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL PMK DEPOSITION IS GRANTED;
MOTION TO CONTINUE DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS
DENIED

 
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
 
Background
On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs served their notice of deposition to take Uber’s person most
knowledgeable (PMK) on seven categories. On August 7, 2024, Plaintiffs deposed
Uber ‘s PMK for approximately five and one-half hours. The deposition was
suspended at 4:00 p.m. at the end of the first day. Plaintiffs allege that they
were unable to obtain all anticipated testimony to oppose Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment and to amend the complaint to allege a ratification
theory.
On August 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed Defendant’s attorney requesting availability for
the continued PMK deposition. On August 12, 2024, Defendant’s attorney provided
October 8, 2024, as the available date. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is scheduled for October 31, 2024, and the deadline to file an opposition is
October 17, 2024. Defendant was not able to provide an earlier date for the PMK
deposition. Plaintiffs argue that there is not enough time to prepare an
opposition to the motion for summary judgment by October 17, 2024, if the
deposition is conducted on October 8, 2024. Plaintiffs now move the Court to
compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK or to continue the motion for summary
judgment hearing.
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2025.450 provides that if, after service of a deposition notice, a party …
without having served a valid objection under § 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination or proceed with it, … the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony. Plaintiffs have not
met the statutory requirements to compel Defendant’s PMK deposition. First, no
notice of deposition for the second deposition was ever served on Defendant.
Plaintiff cannot compel Defendant’s deposition based on the original notice of
deposition served on June 3, 2024 because Defendant served a valid objection,
appeared for the examination on August 7, 2024, and plan to proceed with the
second deposition on October 8, 2024.
As for Plaintiffs’
request to continue Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, Plaintiffs state
that they will not be able to file an opposition by the deadline but have not
satisfactorily explained why that is the case. Plaintiffs do not clearly
specify what information they intend to gather from the second deposition that
was not already obtained during the original deposition. The first deposition
lasted more than 5 hours, so the majority of the testimonial information from
Uber’s PMK needed to oppose Uber’s motion for summary judgment should have been
obtained already. Plaintiffs seem to allege that in the second deposition, they
intend to ask questions related to Uber’s decisions regarding deactivating and
reactivating drivers (Motion at pg. 9). The Court does not see why it would
take more than nine days to incorporate answers to such questions or other
limited information to be gathered from the second deposition into the
opposition.
Defendant reiterates
its offer to allow Plaintiff to take a second deposition on October 8, 2024.
The Court sees no reason to compel the deposition at an earlier date, as there
are only six days between the hearing and the proposed deposition date. Thus,
the Court orders Uber’s second PMK deposition to take place on October 8, 2024,
pursuant to Defendant’s proposal.
Furthermore, Defendant
filed a notice continuing its motion for summary judgment hearing to November
6, 2024, setting a new deadline for Plaintiff to file its opposition by October
23, 2024. As indicated in the foregoing analysis, the Court is not persuaded by
Plaintiff's argument as to why it could not draft a section of the opposition
to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment in 9 days, let alone 15 days based
on the new hearing date. Thus, the Court denies the request to continue the MSJ
hearing beyond the current date of November 6, 2024.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 