  Case Number:  21STCV27787    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CORRECT CLERICAL ERROR 
Hearing Date: 10/2/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV27787 JEHAN ZEB MIR vs
LOREN JACOB GOLDMAN, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendants
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CORRECT CLERICAL ERROR IS DENIED
 
Legal Authority
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 473(d) provides that, “the court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed.”  A court has the
inherent power to correct clerical errors in its records so as to make these
records reflect the true facts.  (In re Candelario (1970) 3¿Cal.¿3d¿702,
705.)  “The test which distinguishes
clerical error from possible judicial error is simply whether the challenged
portion of the judgment was entered inadvertently (which is clerical error)
versus advertently (which might be judicial error, but is not clerical error).  Unless the challenged
portion of the judgment was entered inadvertently, it cannot be changed post
judgment under the guise of correction of clerical error.”  Tokio Marine &
Fire Ins. Corp. v. Western Pacific Roofing Corp. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 110,
117 (internal citation omitted).  “An amendment that substantially
modifies the original judgment or materially alters the rights of the parties,
may not be made by the court under its authority to correct clerical error,
therefore, unless the record clearly demonstrates that the error was not the
result of the exercise of judicial discretion.”  (In re Candelario,
3 Cal. 3d. at¿705.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff, appearing in
pro per, moves to correct a clerical error, claiming that the case status
incorrectly reflects a court-ordered dismissal as of 9/13/22. Upon examining
Plaintiff's argument, the Court is unsure of the basis for this request. From what
the Court can piece together, Plaintiff has been labeled a vexatious litigant
and was required to obtain a prefiling order before initiating a lawsuit. When
Plaintiff filed the present case, Judge Cowan held an order to show cause (OSC)
on August 22, 2022, inquiring why a prefiling order was not obtained prior to
filing the suit. Plaintiff seems to take issue with the legal authority and
facts relied upon by the Court in making that decision and argues that the
Court had no jurisdiction. If that is the case, this is beyond the scope of a
motion to correct a clerical mistake; contesting the legal and factual
foundation of a court order would fall under judicial error, not clerical
error.
On September 12, 2022,
the court held another OSC on the same issue, and on September 13, 2022, the
Court ordered the dismissal of the present case, as reflected in the current
case status. Plaintiff states that the status makes no reference to a motion
for reconsideration of the September 13, 2022, dismissal order. On January 18,
2023, the Court heard Plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of the September
13, 2022, order and denied it. Upon examining the record and based on the
evidence and arguments provided, there appears to be no clerical mistake
regarding the status of the case, which remains dismissed as of September 13,
2022. Thus, the present motion is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 