 Case Number:  22STCV22072    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27  
  
DEMURRER
Hearing Date: 10/2/24   
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV22072
BRANDEN MACOR v. CITY OF WEST HOLLYWOOD et al.
Moving Party: Defendant City
of West Hollywood  
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present complaint for
dangerous condition of public property, premises liability, strict products
liability, and negligence against Bird Rides, Inc., City of West Hollywood,
County of Los Angeles, California Department of Transportation, Maria V.
Montgomery, the MVM Evergreen Trust, and FSM Partnership. The only cause of
action against the City of West Hollywood is for dangerous condition of public
property. Plaintiff Branden Macor alleges that on or around July 13, 2021, he
was injured while riding a Bird scooter near 8600 Sunset Boulevard, West
Hollywood, CA 90069. Defendant City of West Hollywood now demurs to the present
complaint on the basis that the complaint fails to allege that Plaintiff
presented a government claim to the City of West Hollywood prior to filing suit
and the complaint fails to allege facts with particularity as required for
causes of action against public entities.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer may be made to a complaint or cross-complaint on
the basis that the court does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter of
the cause of action in the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a); Buss
v. J.O. Martin Co. (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 123, 133; Davis v. Southern
Cal. Edison Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 619, 636.) A court may lack
subject matter jurisdiction over a cause of action for various reasons,
including: a statutory prerequisite to bringing suit has not been
satisfied. (Hu v. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1261)
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30,
430.70.)
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714,
721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of
instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [internal citations omitted].)
 
Pursuant to CCP § 430.41, before filing a demurrer, “the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, … with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
On December 28, 2023, defense counsel contacted Plaintiff's
counsel to discuss deficiencies in the complaint. Plaintiff's counsel granted
multiple extensions to continue discussions and avoid a demurrer, with the
final extension on May 10, 2024. Despite ongoing discussions, the parties could
not resolve the issues. The meet and confer requirement of CCP § 430.41 is
satisfied.
 
Claims to Public Entity
 
Defendant alleges that Plaintiff has not shown that the
Court has subject matter jurisdiction because the complaint does not include
allegations of compliance with Government Code section 945.4. Specifically,
Plaintiff did not state that he presented a claim to West Hollywood before
filing this lawsuit. Under Govt. Code § 945.4, failing to present a government
claim to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that
entity. (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 737-38.)
 
The Complaint states that on January 10, 2022, Plaintiff
filed three separate Government Tort Claims against the City of Los Angeles,
County of Los Angeles, and the California Department of Transportation.
However, it does not allege whether Plaintiff filed a claim with the City of
West Hollywood, whether the city rejected Plaintiff’s claims, or whether
Plaintiff filed the present complaint timely after the rejection. Therefore,
the Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to sustain a cause of action for
dangerous condition of public property against the City of West Hollywood.
Thus, the demurrer is sustained on this basis with leave to amend, as there is
a possibility for Plaintiff to cure this defect by alleging whether or not he
filed a government claim with City of West Hollywood. 
 
Allegations Not Stated with Particularity
 
“To state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity." (Peter W. v. San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist.
(1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 814, 819.)
 
Defendant argues that the Complaint lacks specific and
concrete details as required for claims against public entities. Defendant
argues that the allegation in paragraph 22 of the Complaint does not make it
clear whether the incident happened on a sidewalk or walkway and whether the
sidewalk or walkway was uneven, broken, or deteriorated.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff needs to
specify whether the incident occurred on a sidewalk or walkway. This
distinction is necessary to pinpoint the location of the displacement and is
relevant to the issue of control. Public entities typically own and control
sidewalks. However, the ownership and control of walkways are not as clear-cut
and can vary depending on the specific location and context. Identifying
whether the incident took place on a sidewalk or walkway will help determine the
appropriate entity responsible for maintaining the area
 
The Court finds the terms "uneven,"
"broken," and "deteriorated" to be synonymous and a
sufficient description of the dangerous condition, providing Defendant with
enough information to locate and investigate the displacement.
 
Defendant further argues that paragraph 25 of the
Complaint, which states that the scooter Plaintiff was riding, owned and/or
manufactured by Defendants Bird and/or Segway, "malfunctioned and/or
failed to slow down and/or stop thereby causing Plaintiff to be propelled off
the scooter and fall onto the pavement and/or road," is similarly vague.
The Court agrees; Plaintiff needs to state whether he fell due to hitting the
displacement or because of the malfunctioning of the scooter. The complaint
does not state the cause of Plaintiff’s fall with particularity. 
 
In paragraph 33, Defendant asserts an alternative theory of
liability, stating, "such that an unknown object and/or construction
debris were allowed to exist and be left in disrepair. Defendants failed to
barricade the area and/or to warn of the dangerous condition, rendering the
area of said premises dangerous and resulting in serious bodily injury to the
Plaintiff." Plaintiff needs to state with particularity the cause of his
fall, whether it was due to striking an uneven displacement or because of the
debris. If Plaintiff fell in part due to the debris, Plaintiff needs to allege
how the debris led to the fall, which he has not in the Complaint.
 
Defendant finally argues that in paragraphs 33, 44, and 45
of the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that three separate public entities and
various private entities own/control the location of the incident and that
Plaintiff needs to specify which entity actually controls the location at
issue. The Court disagrees. Under the doctrine of less particularity, less
specificity is required in pleading matters of which the defendant has superior
knowledge (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028). A
plaintiff “need not particularize matters presumptively within the knowledge of
the demurring defendant.” (Elder v. Pacific Bell Telephone Co. (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858). This includes matters such as a defendant's
knowledge, notice, or intent. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 549-550). A complaint will be upheld “so long as the pleading
gives notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.” (Id.).
Plaintiff has already alleged that the incident occurred near 8600 Sunset
Boulevard, West Hollywood, CA 90069, which is sufficient for Defendants to
prepare a defense. Which of the public or private entities own, control, or
maintain the sidewalk is a matter within Defendants' superior knowledge, and a
result, the Plaintiff has met this reduced pleading standard.
 
In sum, Defendant failed to state every material fact with
particularity, especially whether the incident occurred on a sidewalk or a
walkway, and what caused Plaintiff to fall, whether it was the debris,
displacement, or malfunctioning of the scooter. Thus, the demurrer is sustained
on these bases with leave to amend, as the Court finds it possible for
Plaintiff to cure the defects in the Complaint if leave to amend is granted.
Plaintiff is grated leave to amend within 20 days.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 