 Case Number:  23STCV05884    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



VANESSA HUERTA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 ALAL,
  LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV05884
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 5, 2023



 
On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Vanessa Huerta, as an “aggrieved employee,” filed this action against Defendant
Alal LLC, asserting a single cause of action for civil penalties under the Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) due to Defendant’s violations of the Labor Code.
On
July 14, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration and stay the action.
When
seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege
the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove
the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The Court must grant a petition to compel arbitration
unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration or if there are
grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement. 
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
The
parties agree that Plaintiff signed an Arbitration Agreement with her New Hire Online
Onboarding.  (Flores Decl. ¶¶ 4-6 & Exs.
A-B.)  Through the Arbitration Agreement,
“The Company and Employee agree that any dispute, claim, or complaint that relates
in any way to the Parties’ employment relationship . . . shall be submitted to binding
arbitration.”  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 2.)  The Arbitration Agreement expressly does not cover
“claims under the California Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2014.”  (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 4(c).)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s PAGA claims are asserted individually and in a representative
capacity.  (Motion at p. 6.)  According to Defendant, “when read in the context
of the rest of the Agreement, Section 4(c) evinces a clear intent to extend only
to representative PAGA claims, and it does not purport to cover all
claims under PAGA.  The result is that the
representative PAGA claims are excluded from arbitration, while the individual PAGA
claims are required to be arbitrated.”  (Motion
at pp. 7-8.)  Defendant also argues that Covered
Claims include “claims for overtime, unpaid wages, and claims involving meal and
rest breaks” (Arbitration Agreement ¶ 3), and “[t]hese are precisely the claims
Plaintiff is bringing individually as a PAGA action here.”  (Reply at p. 5.)
The
Arbitration Agreement could not be more clear: 
“Claims not covered also include claims under the California Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act of 2014.”  There is
no distinction between representative and individual PAGA claims; all claims under
PAGA are not covered by the Arbitration Agreement.  And the Complaint could not be more clear:  “PLAINTIFF does not seek to recover anything
other than penalties as permitted by California Labor Code § 2699. To the
extent that statutory violations are mentioned for wage violations, PLAINTIFF does
not seek underlying general and/or special damages for those violations, but simply
the civil penalties permitted by California Labor Code § 2699.”  (Complaint ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff is not asserting damages claims for
overtime, unpaid wages, and breaks.
Because
the Arbitration Agreement expressly excludes all PAGA claims, the motion to compel
arbitration is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 