  Case Number:  22CMCV00661    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00661 John Doe J.M. v. Doe 1, et
 al.
Tuesday, July
 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION
 FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS BY DEFENDANT, COMPTON UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint
alleges that Plaintiff, while a student at Enterprise Middle School, was a
victim of childhood sexual abuse allegedly perpetrated by a teacher’s aide. Plaintiff
alleges six causes of action arising from the alleged abuse. 
       Defendant,
Compton Unified School District (“Defendant”) moves to stay this action pending
decisions by the courts of appeal that will determine whether the revival of
Plaintiff’s claims as permitted by legislation (“AB 218”) is an
unconstitutional gift of public funds. These decisions may potentially render Plaintiff’s
claims unactionable and dispose of the action. 
       Plaintiff
argues that the cases on which Defendant relies have tenuous application. AB
218 has been declared constitutional. There are no grounds by which a court should
usurp the role of the Legislature and unilaterally declare the law
unconstitutional. 
       In
reply, Defendant argues that the only inquiry with respect to the law’s public
purpose is whether the claims were valid at the time the Legislature revived
Plaintiff’s claims, which they were not since they were barred by the
applicable statute of limitations. 
II.     
DISCUSSION
       A court has inherent power to stay proceedings
"to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of
time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 141.) A stay in this context is not a matter of right,
however, the court has discretion to consider whether a stay will avoid “unseemly
conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions” and “whether the rights of
the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction
because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or
the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced."
(
Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48
Cal.2d 208, 215.) 
       The court takes judicial notice of a
petition for writ of mandate filed in A169314 West Contra Costa Unified School
District v. The Superior Court of Contra Costa County (First
App. Dist., Div. 5) filed December 18, 2023, which seeks writ review of the trial
court’s order overruling Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. (Decl.,
Ex. B.) The court also grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice of 22CV05157
Roe 2 a Public Elementary School District v. Superior Court of
California, County of Santa Barbara (Second App. Dist., Div. 6) filed
January 25, 2024, wherein the trial court denied Defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleading. (Decl., Ex. F.) Among other issues, the appeal of
both cases will determine whether AB 218’s revival of claims for childhood
sexual abuse are barred as an unconstitutional gift of public funds. 
III.   
CONCLUSION
       As the pending writs may be dispositive
of the constitutionality of the legislation that revives Plaintiff’s claims
alleged here, the court GRANTS the motion for a stay of proceedings. The Case
Management Conference is reset for October 10, 2024, for the parties to address
the progress of the cases presently on appeal. 
        
       