 Case Number:  23CMCV00796    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00796 City of Compton v. Mehdi Javadiaghdam, et al.
Tuesday,
 July 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING
RECEIVER’S
 MOTION AUTHORIZING ISSUANCE OF RECEIVER’S CERTIFICATE, PROPOSED REHABILITATION
 PLAN, AND FOR RECEIVER TO ENGAGE A BROKER TO MARKET THE RECEIVERSHIP PROPERTY
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       Plaintiff,
City of Compton (“City”), filed this action to require Defendants to abate the
operation of an illegal narcotics business by Defendant, Green House Cure. The real
property is allegedly owned by Defendant, FS International, Inc. (“FS”), for whom
Defendant Mehdi Javadiaghdam serves as FS’s officer and director. The City
alleges claims for abatement, injunction, equitable relief, and imposition of civil
penalties.
       On
April 30, 2924, the court granted the motion of Ryan W. Streckfus to be
relieved as counsel for Defendant, FS International, Inc. On February 8, 2024,
the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to appoint John Rey (“Receiver”) to take
control of the real property, terminate illegal activity, and require
Defendants to obtain a certificate of occupancy. 
       Plaintiff
now moves for an order authorizing the issuance of receiver’s certificate, for approval
of the proposed rehabilitation plan, and authorizing the Receiver to engage a
broker to market the property for sale. The Receiver timely served the motion
on all parties. No opposition has been filed. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       The powers of a receiver are governed by
Section 17980.7 subd. (c)(4) and includes the power to take full and complete
control of the property; manage the building; pay operating expenses, including
taxes, insurance, utilities, general maintenance, and debt secured by an
interest in real property; to secure a cost estimate and construction plan for
the necessary repairs; enter into contracts and collect all rents and income
and to use such income for the cost of rehabilitation. (Health & Saf. Code, § 17980.7(c)(4).)
       The Receiver requests an order to secure
a line of credit of up to $250,000 at 15% interest payable within three months
after the closing of the Receivership Estate to pay expenses incurred in
securing and improving the property for sale after the Receiver discovered 14
unpermitted units at the property occupied by tenants. Defendant refused to
turn over the rents. The units required repair of plumbing and other issues to
make the building safe. All tenants vacated the premises after service of a
60-day Notice to Vacate the property. To date, the Receiver has incurred
$64,492,61 in out-of-pocket expenses to secure and maintain the premises and
$31,507.75 in attorney’s fees, Receiver’s fees, property management, trash,
janitorial, and construction and maintenance expenses. 
       The court has reviewed the Receiver’s
reports and ledgers substantiating costs and necessary expenses incurred by the
Receiver including for repair and maintenance, as well as evidence showing the
condition of the property upon inspection. (Receiver’s 1st Report
filed 3/22/24 Ex. 2.) The court’s order directed the Receiver to prepare a
rehabilitation plan to remedy the conditions giving rise to the appointment of
the receiver and any conditions requiring remediation. (Id. Ex.
1). While Receiver seeks approval of
that plan, a Rehabilitation Plan contemplated by the court’s order, has not
been submitted. 
       The Receiver anticipates that after
inspection, Receiver would prepare an itemized list of improvements necessary
to bring the property up to code standards. (2nd Report, 4:2-7.) Receiver
has not submitted that list or the estimated budget of $73,500 to rehabilitate
the property, although these documents are cited as an exhibit to the Second
Report. (2nd Report, 4:8-10.)  
III.   
CONCLUSION
       As
the Second Report is incomplete, the court continues the hearing to July 30,
 2024,  at 8:30 a.m. in
Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Within 10 days prior to the hearing, the
Receiver is ordered to provide a Rehabilitation Plan with an itemized list of
improvements and an estimated budget for the court to approve. 
 