 Case Number:  24SMCV00099    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Fanfixapp
LLC v. Passes, Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00099
MOTION:                  Pro
Hac Vice Application 
HEARING DATE:   2/28/2024
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Rule of Court (CRC) rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon
due notice to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in
San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of California, does not work in California and does not perform
regular or substantial business, professional or other activities in the State.

 
The written application must
provide the following information:
 
(1)  The applicant's residence
and office address;
(2)  The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts;
(4)  That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  The title of each court
and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
(CRC Rule 9.40(d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Counsel Alex Meier applies to be
admitted pro hac vice as counsel of record for Plaintiffs Fanfixapp LLC and
Superordinaryco USA Inc. Separately, Counsel Yue Wange applies to be admitted
pro hac vice as counsel of record for Defendant Passes, Inc. Both applications
satisfy rule 9.40, as the supplied declarations provided the required information.
(Meier Decl., ¶¶ 1-5; Martoccia Decl.; Wang Decl., ¶¶ 1-10.) 
 
            The Court notes that in the past two
years Meier has successfully applied to appear pro hac vice in California courts
in a superior court action, a related JAMS arbitration proceeding, and two
separate arbitration proceedings. The Court will grant his application but
warns Mr. Meier that he is approaching being “regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the State of California.” (See
CRC Rule 9.40(a)(3), (b).) 
 
            Accordingly, the applications are GRANTED.
