

Hearing Date:             January
24, 2024
Case Name:                Lehrer-Graiwer
v. Shokrian
Case No.:                    23STCV15172
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendant Jasmin Shokrian

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Jonathan Lehrer-Graiwer and Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer

Tentative Ruling:      The demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is overruled. The
motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiffs shall not have leave to
amend. 

             
            This case arises from a landlord-tenant
dispute. On June 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Lehrer-Graiwer
and Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendant
Jasmin Shokrian (Defendant). 
 
            On July 11, 2023, the
Court in Department 53 denied Defendant’s request that this matter be deemed
related to LASC
Case No. BC685351 (BC Action). 
 
            On November 28, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint alleging (1.) fraud in the inducement, and (2.)
recission based on fraud in the inducement. The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs
advertised a rental unit located at 967 Maltman Avenue, Los Angeles, California
90026 (Premises) for short term rental. Defendant completed an “Application to
Rent” wherein she represented that she had never been evicted or asked to move.
She also represented that she was self-employed as a fashion designer for
Jasmin Shokrian Atelier and had an annual gross income of $100,000 per year. Thereafter,
Plaintiffs learned that Defendant’s representations were false.
 
            Defendant demurs to
the first and second causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that the action
is barred by res judicata/collateral estoppel, the FAC fails to state a claim,
and the Complaint suffers from uncertainty. Alternatively, Defendant asks the
Court to stay this matter pending the appeal in the BC Action.
 
            The demurrer is overruled in its
entirety. The motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiffs
shall not have leave to amend.
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice of Exhibits 1-9 is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d), (h).)
Defendant’s reply request for judicial notice of Exhibit 10 is granted. (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice of Exhibit 1-2 is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
Res Judicata and Collateral Estoppel:
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by res judicata and collateral estoppel.
Defendant argues that the FAC attempts to relitigate new theories based on the
same “primary rights” as was adjudicated in the BC Action.
             “Courts have at times used “res
judicata” as an umbrella term, encompassing both the primary aspect of claim preclusion
and the secondary aspect of issue preclusion. We will follow the current
practice to use the term “claim preclusion” to describe the primary aspect of
the res judicata doctrine and the term “issue preclusion” to denote collateral
estoppel.” (Cal Sierra Development, Inc. v. George Reed, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 663, 671.) 
            “‘Res judicata describes the preclusive effect of a final judgment on
the merits.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002), 28 Cal. 4th 888,
896.) It “prevents relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit
between the same parties or parties in privity with them.” (Id. at p.
897.) Under the doctrine, “all claims based on the same cause of action must be
decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a
later date.” (Ibid.) The following are the prerequisite elements
for applying the doctrine of res judicata/claim preclusion to an entire cause
of action: (1) A claim raised in the present action is identical to a claim
litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in a final
judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom
the doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the
prior proceeding. (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.
4th 788, 797.) 
            “Unless the issue or cause of action in the two actions
is identical, the first judgment does not stand as a bar to the second suit.
[Citations.] To define a cause of action, California follows the primary right
theory.” (Citizens for Open Access to Sand and Tide, Inc. v. Seadrift Ass'n
(1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1067.) 
The primary
right theory “ ‘provides that a “cause of action” is comprised of a “primary
right” of the plaintiff, a corresponding “primary duty” of the defendant, and a
wrongful act by the defendant constituting a breach of that duty. [Citation.]
The most salient characteristic of a primary right is that it is indivisible:
the violation of a single primary right gives rise to but a single cause of
action.’ ” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co., supra, 28 Cal.4th at 904.)
The primary right at issue must be “ ‘distinguished from the legal theory
on which liability for that injury is premised: “Even where there are multiple
legal theories upon which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise
to only one claim for relief.” [Citation.] The primary right must also be
distinguished from the remedy sought: “The violation of one primary
right constitutes a single cause of action, though it may entitle the injured
party to many forms of relief, and the relief is not to be confounded with the
cause of action, one not being determinative of the other.” ’ ” (Ibid.)
The
doctrine of collateral estoppel bars the party to a prior action from
relitigating any issues finally decided against him or her in the
earlier action. (City of Sacramento v. State of California (1990) 50
Cal.3d 51, 64.) The doctrine of collateral estoppel applies: “(1) after final
adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily
decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the
first suit or one in privity with that party.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 825.)
The “
‘identical issue requirement’ concerns whether ‘identical factual allegations'
are at stake in the two proceedings....” (Lucido v. Superior Court
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 335, 342.) An issue is actually litigated ‘[w]hen [it] is
properly raised, by the pleadings or otherwise, and is submitted for
determination, and is determined .... A determination may be based on a failure
of ... proof ....’ [Citation.]” (People v. Sims (1982) 32 Cal.3d 468,
484.)
Under
either doctrine, Defendant must show either the identical claim or the
identical issue was previously litigated. Defendant fails to do so here. 
In BC Action, the same plaintiffs,
Jonathan Lehrer-Graiwer and Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer, filed a Complaint for breach
of lease based on unpaid rental amounts and Defendant’s refusal to vacate the
premises within the time required under the lease. (Def.’s RJN Ex. 1 [BC685351
Complaint], ¶¶ 6-12.) The Complaint in BC Action also alleges a fraud in the
inducement claim based on the same allegations of Defendant’s promise to vacate
the Property upon 60 days’ notice. (Def.’s RJN Ex. 1 [BC685351 Complaint], ¶¶
16-18.)
            In this
action, the FAC alleges fraud in the inducement based on representations made
in Defendant’s rental application. (FAC ¶¶ 8-20, 22.) Plaintiffs also seek to
rescind the Lease based on these fraudulent representations. (FAC ¶¶ 33-38.) 
            Based
on the allegations in the pleadings in these two cases, the two actions do not contain
the same causes of action or issues. That is, the BC Action contains claims for
contractual breaches arising from the lease and the fraud related to those
specific contractual breaches. In contrast, the instant action contains claims
for fraudulent misrepresentations arising from Defendant’s application to rent
the Premises. These cases are based on different underlying facts and the
resulting claims pertain to distinct wrongful acts and injuries. 
 
            Additionally,
under both doctrines, there is a finality requirement with respect to the
adjudication of the claims or issues. Here, Defendant’s own demurrer concedes
that the BC Action is not yet final. (Dem., 13:15-14:3 [“Plaintiffs’ Case
Should be Stayed Pending the Appeal of the Related Action”]; see also Def.’s
RJN Exs. 7-8.) 
 
            The
demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
            Further,
the Court declines to stay this action pending the appeal in the BC Action.
Code of Civil Procedure section 916 does not stay this action and the Court
declines to exercise its inherent authority to stay this matter under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128 where there is no overwhelming degree of overlap or
any other grounds that justifies a stay here. 
 
First and Second Causes of Action –
Specificity for Fraud: 
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the first cause of action for fraud in the inducement and second
cause of action for rescission based on this fraud on the grounds the claims
lack specificity.
            The elements of fraud
are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance;
(d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “Fraud in the inducement is a subset of the tort
of fraud.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) It “occurs when ‘ “the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent
is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which,
by reason of the fraud, is voidable.” ’ ” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415 [quoting Ford v. Shearson
Lehman American Express, Inc. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 1011, 1028].)
            Further, “fraud must
be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by
what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity
requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible
in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184.)  
            Defendant argues that
the FAC is “vague, ambiguous and unclear as to who did what when and does not
address Defendant’s alleged scienter . . ..” (Dem., 13:3-4.) This argument is
not well taken. 
            The FAC adequately alleges
that the fraudulent representation was made in writing in August 2016 in Defendant’s
“Application to Rent.” (FAC ¶ 25.) The FAC further alleges that Defendant knew these
representations were false and intended Plaintiff to rely on these representations
to induce Plaintiffs to rent the Premises to Defendant. (FAC ¶¶ 26, 28.) Thes allegations
are sufficiently specific to satisfy the heightened pleading standards for
fraud. 
            The demurrer on this
ground is overruled. 
First and Second Causes of Action –
Illegal Lease:
 
             Finally, Defendant demurs to the FAC on the
ground that fraud and rescission claims “improperly seek to effectively evict
Plaintiff (by declaring she has no valid lease agreement) in direct violation
of [Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance].” (Dem., 11:3-4.) Specifically,
Defendant argues that the FAC does not allege any of the permitted grounds for
eviction as set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code section 151.09.
 
            With
respect to this argument, the FAC seeks damages and recission. There is no
requested relief seeking eviction. 
 
            Additionally,
Defendant argues that a fraud in the inducement claim cannot survive if the underlying
contract is unenforceable as illegal. In support of this argument, Defendant
cites Hydrotech Systems, Ltd v. Oasis Waterpark (1991), 52 Cal.3d. 988,
for the proposition that a plaintiff cannot pursue a fraud in the inducement
claim when the underlying contract itself was illegal.
 
            The
facts in Hydrotech Systems, Ltd v. Oasis Waterpark (1991), 52
Cal.3d. 988 are distinguishable as that case involved a unlicensed contractor
and Business and Professions Code section 7031. 
 
Section 7031 makes clear that it covers
“any action” “in law or equity,” thereby “eliminat[ing]” both “contractual and
quasi-contractual claims seeking ‘compensation’ for unlicensed work.” (Hydrotech,
52 Cal. 3d at 997.) Put another way, “section 7031 bars all actions, however
they are characterized, which effectively seek ‘compensation’ for illegal
unlicensed contract work.” (Id.) Thus, in Hydrotech, the California
Supreme Court disallowed Hydrotech's tort claim, which alleged “it was induced
to enter and perform an illegal contract by a false promise to pay; that it
would not have performed had it known the promise was false when made; and that
it therefore suffered damage.” (Id. at 998.) As the Court explained, “an
unlicensed contractor may not circumvent the clear provisions and purposes of
section 7031 simply by alleging that when the illegal contract was made, the
other party had no intention of performing.” (Id.) “However artful the
pleadings, if the primary fraud alleged is a false promise to pay for
unlicensed construction work, and the primary relief sought is compensation for
the work, section 7031 bars the action.” (Id. at 1002.)
 
            Hydrotech
Systems, Ltd v. Oasis Waterpark is not cited in any other context aside
from the contractor’s licensing cases. Thus, this case is not applicable here
and Defendant has not cited any other authority for her position. 
 
            Further, as a practical matter, Plaintiffs
are not seeking to enforce an underlying (allegedly) illegal lease,
but rather are seeking to recover damages suffered when Defendant fraudulently induced them
to enter into the lease and, also, to rescind the lease. 
 
            The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.  
 
Legal Standard for Motions to
Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant moves to strike the
request for attorneys’ fees, prejudgment interest and punitive damages from the
FAC.[1]
 
            First, Defendant argues that FAC fails
to allege facts showing that Plaintiffs are entitled to attorney fees. Thus,
she contends, the Court should strike the prayer for attorney’s fees.
 
            Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
alleged damages are not certain and are not capable of being made certain by
calculation, and therefore the Court should strike the request for prejudgment
interest.
 
            Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has only alleged a “bare allegation of malice, oppression or fraud,” and thus
the Court should strike the request for punitive damages.
 
            Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion
to strike the request for prejudgment interest and attorney fees. Thus, the
motion is granted as to this request relief. 
 
            The Court will next turn to motion
to strike the request for punitive damages. 
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs have sufficiently stated a claim for fraud. Accordingly, the motion
to strike is denied as to punitive damages and granted as to attorney fees and
prejudgment interest. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint is overruled. The motion to strike is granted in part and denied in
part. Plaintiffs shall not have leave to amend. 


