  Case Number:  18STCV04752    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  49 Kurt Knutsson, et al. v. Judith Salkow Shapiro, et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING PARTIES: Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust CompanyRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc. bring this suit against the law corporation of their deceased former lawyer, Judith Salkow Shapiro, for legal malpractice and fraud in the handling of an underlying employment and right of publicity action against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations.  The operative Second Amended Complaint asserts causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Professional Negligence/Legal Malpractice, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.  Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust Company now move for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. Plaintiffs opposed. After the September 26, 2023, hearing on this motion, the court continued the hearing and invited supplemental briefing. The court has read and considered Defendants’ and Plaintiffs’ supplemental briefs of 11/22/23 and 12/06/23, respectively, and now rules as follows.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is also DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationI. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.)  Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.  (§ 437c(o)(2).)II. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 7.  The court takes judicial notice of the exhibits without assuming the truth of the assertions contained therein. (See Seelig v. Infinity Broad. Corp. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 798, 808.) Plaintiffs’ objections to same are OVERRULED.III. Objections to EvidencePursuant to CCP § 437c(q), the Court only rules upon objections asserted against evidence which the Court deems to be material to the disposition of this motion, as follows:Plaintiffs object generally to Defendants’ separate statement because the “issues” stated in Defendants’ notice are not identical to the issues used in the separate statement. The court concludes Plaintiffs have sufficient notice of the issues to be addressed and are not prejudiced by the inconsistencies. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ objection to the Separate Statement is OVERRULED.Defendants’ objections to the Declaration of Kurt Knutsson numbers 11, 12, and 13 are OVERRULED.IV. AnalysisA. BackgroundThis legal malpractice action arises out of now deceased attorney Judith Shapiro’s representation of Plaintiffs in Knutsson, et al. v. KTLA, et al. Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. BC500792 (the “Underlying Action”). There, Plaintiffs brought right of publicity claims against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations. Initially, Plaintiffs defeated Local TV’s motion for summary judgment of the right of publicity claims. However, Local TV then successfully petitioned the Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate. As a result, summary judgment was granted against Plaintiffs, and on April 11, 2017, Knutsson was ordered to pay $327,171 in attorney’s fees to Local TV. Now, in the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc., allege Defendants “failed to obtain the learning or skill necessary to evaluate the claim they included for violation of California Civil Code Section 3344 (Use of Another’s Name, Voice, Signature, Photograph or Likeness in Advertising or Soliciting Without Prior Consent), nor did they associate with competent counsel or refer the matter to other counsel with sufficient learning and skill to evaluate such a claim.” (SAC ¶ 22.) Following an appeal, Plaintiffs “were ordered to pay attorneys’ fees to Local TV, LLC in the sum of $327,171.00 plus post judgment interest of 10% per annum, which required Plaintiffs to obtain litigation financing that required them to give up a substantial percentage of their ultimate recovery in the underlying litigation.” (Id. ¶ 32.) B. Statute of Limitations and Continuing Representation1. Background AuthoritiesAt issue in this motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is whether Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6 provides that the statute of limitations for legal malpractice is one year.  However, subsection (a)(2) provides that the time to bring a legal malpractice claim “shall be tolled during the time…[t]he attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.”  Continuous representation is an objective standard, and “the limitations period can be tolled even though the client is aware of the attorney’s negligence.”  (Nielsen, 157 Cal. App. 4th at 1049 [“Continuity of representation ultimately depends, not on the client's subjective beliefs, but rather on evidence of an ongoing mutual relationship and of activities in furtherance of the relationship.”].)  The analysis is “when the client actually has or reasonably should have no expectation that the attorney will provide further legal services. [Citation.]”  (Id. at 1050.)  Thus, on a motion for summary judgment that invokes “continuous representation,” the question is “whether, using an objective standard, there are triable issues of fact about whether there was an ongoing relationship and activities in furtherance of the relationship.”  (Id. at 1050.)  To illustrate this standard, the court turns to a discussion of the relevant case law. In Nielsen v. Beck (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 1041, a client sued its former attorney for legal malpractice. (Id. at 1048.)  The trial court granted the attorney’s motion for summary judgment, concluding that the lawsuit was barred by the one-year statute of limitations.  In doing so, the trial court rejected the client’s argument that the “continuous representation” rule of section 340.6(a)(2) had tolled the limitations period.  On appeal, the Court of Appeal held the trial court improperly granted the motion for summary judgment.  Notably, even though a substitution of attorney form had been filed, there was evidence “from which a trier of fact could conclude that the relationship between [the attorney and client] had not been severed at the time the substitution of attorney form was signed.”  (Id. at 1051.)  This evidence included telephone calls in which the attorney rendered “professional services” in the form of “negotiations, options, and strategy.”  (Id.) The Court rejected the attorney’s argument that he was merely being “cordial,” stating this “creates sufficient evidence that may convince a trier of fact to the contrary.”  (Id. at 1052.)  In addition, the court explained that the substitution of attorney form was “was not the key to this analysis.  A reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the parties intended that [the attorney] no longer act as litigation counsel, but he was expected to continue to provide transactional advice, as evidenced by the three September 2004 telephone calls.”  (Id.)The Nielsen Court also addressed the scope of the representation, of which there were also disputes of fact.  “In addition to the issue of timing, in order to fall within the tolling provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6, subdivision (a)(2), the attorney must have continued ‘to represent the plaintiff regarding the same specific subject matter[ ]’ (§ 340.6, subd. (a)(2), italics added) as to which the negligence occurred.”  (Id. at 1052-53.) “The continuing representation tolling provision ‘is not applicable when there is a continuing relationship between the client and the attorney involving only unrelated matters. [Citation.]’”  (Id. at 1053.) In that case, the court found the attorney’s “representation in the bankruptcy case and [] representation in the unlawful detainer proceedings can be seen to be intertwined and related, having overlapping objectives and purposes. The legal representation could be seen to have arisen from the same event.”  (Id. at 1054.) Hence, there were disputes of fact that precluded summary judgment.  (Id.)Defendants argue two other cases are controlling and support their motion. First, in Flake v. Neumiller & Beardslee (2017) 9 Cal. App. 5th 223, 226, the Court of Appeal addressed whether the trial court properly granted summary judgment to a former attorney in malpractice suit based on the statute of limitations on the ground that the client could not have had an objectively reasonable expectation the attorney was continuing to represent him after the attorney served a motion to withdraw. The Court answered that in the affirmative, explaining:[Counsel’s motion to withdraw] would indicate to any objectively reasonable client that Neumiller's representation of Flake was over, as it had been completely assumed by another. Whether that relationship-ending event is properly characterized as a true “abandonment” by Neumiller or not, the motion definitively informed Flake that Sinclair was already handling the pending postjudgment motions and would handle the appeal. Although Sinclair later denied the truth of Neumiller's statements, and Flake may have (subjectively) thought otherwise, any objectively reasonable client would have understood on receipt of the motion to withdraw that Neumiller had stopped working on the case. Therefore, Sinclair's declaration did not create a triable issue of material fact, because it does not inform as to Flake's objectively reasonable belief as of the time Flake was served with the motion to withdraw.Nor did Flake's declaration raise any triable issues, because he did not dispute that he received the motion to withdraw and associated papers, which, as stated, clearly signaled to an objectively reasonable reader that Neumiller was no longer providing legal services for Flake.(Id. at 231.)Second, in Nguyen v. Ford (2020) 49 Cal. App. 5th 1, 8, the trial court sustained a defendant attorney’s demurrer in a malpractice action based on the statute of limitations. On appeal, the Court explained that the “continuous representation exception applies only to the attorney's representation of the plaintiff in the ‘specific subject matter’ in which the alleged wrongdoing occurred.” Thus, “[t]o determine whether the continuous representation exception applies, “ ‘[t]he inquiry is not whether an attorney-client relationship still exists but when the representation of the specific matter terminated.’ ” (Id. at 12.) Affirming the trial court’s order, the Court of Appeal explained that the attorney’s filing of a notice of withdrawal in the underlying case placed the plaintiff on objective notice that the representation had ended. (Id. at 15.) The court also noted that the plaintiff “d[id] not assert any ongoing legal contacts with [the attorney] related to the matter.” (Id.) “For example, Nguyen does not allege that she continued to communicate with Ford about the district court case; Ford made any legal appearances on her behalf in the district court case; or Ford sent her legal bills related to ongoing work in the district court case. Nguyen does not assert Ford told Nguyen she was continuing to represent her in the district court case.” (Id.)While Flake and Nguyen are instructive, this court does not read those cases as providing a bright line rule that a notice to withdraw ends the tolling under section 340.6. Indeed, the Nguyen court itself stated that “[t]he end of an attorney-client relationship is not always signaled by a bright line.” (Id. at 230.) “[T]he formal act of withdrawing does not demarcate the end of the professional relationship in the context of the legal malpractice statute of limitations.” (Id.) Rather, the question is highly fact intensive. With these principles in mind, we turn to the instant facts.C. Facts of the Instant MatterIn support the motion for summary judgment, Defendants present evidence Plaintiffs suffered actual injury in the underlying action no later than April 11, 2017, when an award of attorneys’ fees was entered against Plaintiff. (SSUMF 13.) That much appears undisputed.  Plaintiffs filed this malpractice suit on November 13, 2018. Thus, based plainly on a one-year statute of limitations from the date of actual injury of April 11, 2017, Plaintiffs’ action is untimely. Therefore, Plaintiffs must establish a triable issue as to the tolling of the statute of limitations to survive summary judgment.On June 16, 2017, Shapiro filed a “Notice of Withdrawal” in the underlying action. Shapiro passed away on November 11, 2017, following a bout with pancreatic cancer. In support of their argument against tolling, Defendants contend by November 10, 2017 at the very latest—the day before Shapiro’s death—Plaintiffs did not have an objectively reasonable expectation that Shapiro was continuing to represent them in the Underlying Action. They present evidence that Shapiro had filed a notice of withdrawal in the Underlying Action on June 16, 2017, and had communicated that fact to the Plaintiffs. Shapiro explained to Knutsson in detail her reasons for withdrawing. After withdrawing, Shapiro did not attend any hearings or handle any legal filings, had not been copied on case correspondence, and had not billed Knutsson for any new legal work. Shapiro reminded Knutsson on more than one occasion that he had outstanding legal bills for her prior work in the underlying case.Defendant presents further evidence that Shapiro informed Knuttson of her health issues, including her pancreatic cancer diagnosis, at least as early as August or September of 2017. Therefore, Defendants argue that “any objectively reasonable client would have understood Shapiro’s notice of withdraw to be the end of her representation in the Underlying Action.” (Mtn. 10: 18-20.)In opposition, Plaintiffs counters that Shapiro continued to advise Knutsson about the KTLA case after the Notice of Withdrawal. Indeed, in her email to Knutsson accompanying her Notice of Withdrawal, Shapiro wrote she would “be happy to give” her “comments or suggestions” on a potential amended pleading. (SSDMF 15, Exh. 20.) Plaintiffs also present evidence that Shapiro had a history of exaggerating her ailments, and threatened to withdraw so frequently that the withdrawal could hardly be taken literally. (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 14.)Plaintiffs also present evidence of continued communications with Shapiro regarding the subject matter of the ongoing litigation. “In late October or early November 2017,” Knutsson called Shapiro to discuss his second deposition scheduled for a few weeks later. (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 18.) Knutsson “wanted to know why [he] had to have [his] deposition taken a second time” and whether he should fight it. (Id.) Shapiro advised him “it would not be worth it to try to prevent the deposition from going forward,” and “launched into criticisms” of Knutsson’s performance at his first deposition. (Id.) Shapiro advised Knutsson on how to handle himself at the second deposition. (Id.) Plaintiffs note only after Shapiro passed—and with no one now advising Knutsson to preserve the right of publicity claims—did Knutsson advise his attorney dismiss those claims. (Id. ¶ 25.) The disputed facts here are distinguishable from Flake and Nguyen, discussed in section (B)(1), supra. In those cases, the Court held a notice of withdrawal placed the plaintiff on objective notice that the representation had ended. But in those cases, it appears there were little, if any, communications between the attorney and client after the withdrawal. That is not the case here.Here, Knutsson and Shapiro stayed in contact after Shapiro formally withdrew as Knutsson’s attorney in the underlying action. On at least one phone call, they discussed the case and Shapiro advised Knutsson how to conduct himself for an upcoming deposition. Knutsson recites other instances where he discussed the case with Shapiro. A review of the evidence suggests that Knutsson and Shapiro maintained a cordial relationship after the withdrawal. One might even call the two friends. This blurs the line between the friendship and attorney-client relationship. Knutsson presents further evidence he learned of Shapiro’s death on or about November 12, 2017, and was “completely shocked at the news.” (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 21.) Although he was aware of her pancreatic cancer diagnosis, he believed “that people could live for years after they were diagnosed with that form of cancer.” (Id.) Knutsson also states that Shapiro “had a history of exaggerating her health issues,” which she would sometimes use to her advantage in litigation. (Id. ¶ 22.) There is also no evidence in the record that Knutsson knew Shapiro was “no longer lucid” in the days before her death. While the tolling standard is an objective one, it is still based on the facts known from the client’s perspective.Considering the above, this court finds the existence of triable issue as to the continuing representation tolling doctrine. In so concluding, this court is mindful of its duty to “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Finally, because the court finds a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiffs’ claims are timely within the one-year statute of limitations period, the court need not determine at this time whether a longer limitations period might apply to Plaintiffs’ fraud claim(s).Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is also DENIED.D. Other ObservationsAlthough not raised in the briefing, the court notes the following point for sake of thoroughness on the statute of limitations issue. It is undisputed that Judith Salkow Shapiro passed away on November 11, 2017. It cannot be disputed that the representation stopped as of this date, as she could not continue to represent clients after her death. Therefore, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, November 11, 2017, was the absolute last day that the one-year statute of limitations could begin running. Moving forward exactly one year, November 11, 2018, fell on a Sunday. The next day—Monday, November 12, 2018—was Veterans Day, an observed court holiday. Plaintiffs then filed their complaint the following day on Tuesday, November 13, 2018. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 12a(a), “[i]f the last day for the performance of any act provided or required by law to be performed within a specified period of time is a holiday, then that period is hereby extended to and including the next day that is not a holiday.” “Holidays within the meaning of this code are every Sunday and any other days that are specified or provided for as judicial holidays in Section 135.” (CCP § 10.)Therefore, because Sunday, November 11, 2018, and Monday, November 12, 2018, were “holidays” as that term is used in the Code of Civil Procedure, Plaintiffs had until Tuesday, November 13, 2018, to file this action. Plaintiffs did, in fact, file this action on that last day. The action was therefore timely for the purposes of this motion.Of course, the trier of fact will still determine whether the statute of limitations had, in fact, expired, before November 13, 2018, based upon Plaintiff’s tolling theory of “continued representation."  This Court may consider bifurcating that issue if there is a trial in this matter.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 14, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court