 Case Number:  22STCV29580    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Antonietta Violante’s
Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal 
Plaintiff Antonietta Violante moves to lift the stay
of this action pending appeal.  On April
18, 2023, the court granted plaintiff’s motion to withdraw the action from
arbitration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97(b)(1).  Defendants Shippers Transport Express, Inc.
and Kevin Baddeley appealed that order.
Before this year, appealing an order denying a
motion to compel arbitration automatically stayed the action.  As of January 1, 2024, Civil Procedure section
1294(a) provides, “Notwithstanding Section 916, the perfecting of such an
appeal shall not automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during
the pendency of the appeal.”  
Preemption
Defendants argue the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
preempts section 1294(a).  It does not.  Staying an action pending appeal is a
procedural rule of state court proceedings.  “ ‘[T]he FAA’s procedural provisions
[citation] do not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause
expressly incorporating them.’ ”  (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345.)  “[T]he procedural provisions of the CAA apply
in California courts by default.” 
(Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 174.)  
The
parties’ arbitration agreement does not incorporate the FAA’s procedural rules.
 To the contrary, it provides, “The
arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in the city in which the Employee is
employed and in accordance with the provisions of that state’s arbitration
statute, if any, in effect at the time a demand for arbitration is made.  If the state does not have an arbitration
statute, the Federal Arbitration Act shall apply.”  (McMullen Decl., Ex. A.)  California has an arbitration statute.  The parties therefore agreed the California
Arbitration Act applies instead of the FAA. 
Defendants’
reliance on Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736 is
misplaced.  That case does not concern
federal preemption of state law under the FAA. 
It only concerns procedural rules in federal court.  The Supreme Court stated, “When a federal
district court denies a motion to compel arbitration, the losing party has a
statutory right to an interlocutory appeal. 
[Citation.]  The sole question
here is whether the district court must stay its pre-trial and trial
proceedings while the interlocutory appeal is ongoing.  The answer is yes.”  (Id. at p. 738.)  Its holding only applies to federal court
proceedings. 
Retroactivity
Defendants contend the amendment to section 1294(a)
does not apply because the stay occurred before the new law took effect.  There is a “presumption that statutes operate
prospectively absent a clear indication the voters or the Legislature intended
otherwise.”  (Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn’s, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 230 (CDR).)  But “a statute that establishes rules for the
conduct of pending litigation without changing the legal consequences of past
conduct is not made retroactive merely because it draws upon facts existing
prior to its enactment... .  [Instead,]
[t]he effect of such statutes is actually prospective in nature since they
relate to the procedure to be followed in the future.”  (Id. at p. 231, internal quotes
omitted.)  
The “legal consequences of past conduct” generally
refers to matters such as expanding “liability for past conduct by imposing
broader duties,” imposing liability for something previously protected at the
time by “an immunity statute,” or increasing criminal punishments or defining
new conduct as criminal.  (CDR, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 231.)  In this context,
past conduct typically means the underlying events giving rise to the
litigation—not what happened earlier in the litigation.    
Statutes regarding an automatic stay pending appeal are
rules for the conduct of pending litigation. 
Undoing an automatic stay does not change the legal consequences of defendants’
past conduct.  The new statute leaves “entirely
unchanged the substantive rules governing” the right to arbitrate and the legal
rights giving rise to plaintiff’s action against defendants.  (CDR, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 232.)  Moreover, applying Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294(a) now does not retrospectively deprive defendants of the benefits
of the former law.  This case has been
stayed pending the appeal.  Lifting that
stay now, pursuant to plaintiff’s noticed motion, does not retrospectively undo
the prior stay.  Lifting the stay “affect[s]
only future conduct—the future conduct of” this action.  (Elsner v. Uveges (2004) 34 Cal.4th
915, 936.)    
Discretion to Stay Action
Defendants’ opposition also argues that, even if the
court has the power to lift the stay, it should not do so.  The court finds good cause to lift the
stay.  The purpose of the amendment to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a) was to “give[] courts the discretion to
prevent corporations from using a common delay tactic against workers and
consumers.”  (Assem. Com. on Appr., Analysis
of Sen. Bill No. 365 (2023-2024 Reg. Sess.) July 12, 2023, p. 1.)  The court granted plaintiff’s motion to withdraw
the case from arbitration because defendant materially breached the arbitration
agreement under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97.  Declining to lift the stay and further
delaying this proceeding would undermine the purpose of both section 1281.97
and the amendment to section 1294(a).
Disposition
Plaintiff Antonietta Violante’s motion to lift stay
pending appeal is granted.  The court
hereby lifts the stay of this action.