  Case Number:  22STCV04713    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Studio Estates, LLC’s Motion
for Entry of Judgment
Plaintiff
Studio Estates, LLC moves to enter judgment against defendants Nine Eleven
Movie, LLC, Martin Sprock, and Sprockefeller Pictures, LLC pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 664.6.  
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes four objections to
the declaration of Martin Sprock, five objections to the declaration of Martin
Guigui, and six objections to the declaration of Ryan Johnson.  All objections are overruled.
Authority
to Enter Judgment
            The court has the power to enter
judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.  Defendants argue otherwise because the
parties did not stipulate to entry of judgment. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6(a) provides, “If parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the
presence of the court... for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  The statute requires a stipulation “for
settlement of the case,” not for entry of judgment, per se.  If the parties stipulate for settlement, the
court may enter judgment pursuant to the settlement’s terms.  
            The parties agreed in writing to
settle the case.  (Trauben Decl., Ex.
A.)  The agreement provides, “[I]n
accordance with the Dismissal and Stipulation re Jurisdiction, the Court in the
Action will retain continuing jurisdiction over this Action for the purpose of
enforcing any and all terms of this Agreement, pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 664.6.”  (Id.,
¶ 7.)  Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6 therefore applies and empowers the court to enter judgment
pursuant to the settlement agreement’s terms. 
            
            The terms relevant to entry of
judgment are that defendants agreed to make two payments: $90,000 and
$360,000.  (Trauben Decl., Ex. A, §
2.A.)  As an alternative to the second
payment, defendants were required to propose an investment in a film titled Big
Finish.  (Id., § 2.B.)  The agreement provides, “Plaintiff agrees to
review the Proposal in good faith and, in his sole and complete discretion, may
elect to cause the Second Payment to be re-directed as a “’last in, first out’ investment
into the film the Big Finish, the full terms of which will be negotiated
in good faith.  For the avoidance of any
doubt, the decision to accept the Second Payment or redirect that payment into
the prospective film Big Finish is completely within the sole and
absolute discretion of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s
approval, if any, to redirect the Second Payment must be in writing.  Absent Plaintiff’s written approval in this
regard, Defendants must pay Plaintiff the Second Payment within sixty (60)
calendar days of the Effective Date in accordance with paragraph 2(A)(ii).”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff has not exercised the option to
redirect the second payment as an investment into the film Big Finish.
Waiver
or Estoppel
Defendants
contend the court should deny the motion based on the doctrines of waiver or equitable
estoppel.  Defendants present
insufficient evidence to apply either doctrine. 
Even if defendants met their burden of proof, they fail to establish
waiver or estoppel of the relevant right: entry of judgment for $360,000.  Defendants argue plaintiff “waived timing
provisions and writing requirements in the Settlement Agreement” (Opp., p. 7)
and “should be estopped from enforcing the proposal deadline” (id., p.
9).  They contend plaintiff delayed
demanding the $360,000 payment and continued to discuss the film investment as
an alternative to that payment.
This
argument conflates the matter of entry of judgment pursuant to the agreement
with the question of whether defendants breached the agreement.  Whether a party breached the settlement agreement is “not relevant to
the entry of judgment pursuant to section 664.6.”   (Machado v. Myers (2019) 39
Cal.App.5th 779, 796.)  “ ‘[A] party
moving for the entry of judgment pursuant to a settlement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6 need not establish a breach of contract to support
relief under the statute.’ ”  (Ibid.)  The agreement’s deadlines are only relevant
to the issue of breach.  As
discussed above, plaintiff had sole discretion under the settlement agreement to
accept the investment as an alternative to the $360,000 payment.  (Trauben Decl., Ex. A, § 2.B.)  Continuing to discuss the investment after
the deadline does not mean they waived the right to the $360,000 payment or the
right to enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  
Even
if plaintiff never clearly indicated it rejected the investment option before
filing this motion, that is not a basis to deny this motion.  Plaintiff has now unequivocally rejected that
option.  It is entitled to judgment of
$360,000 plus prejudgment interest.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Studio Estates, LLC’s motion for entry of judgment is granted.  The court will modify plaintiff’s proposed
judgment by striking unnecessary provisions and enter judgment as modified. 