  Case Number:  23CHCV00139    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept.
F-51 
Date: 3/26/24
Case #23CHCV00139
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

MARCH 25,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two and Three)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV00139

 
Motions
filed: 1/30/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Sara Valtierra (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: NOT OK (fails to identify which discovery requests are at
issue)
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Orders
compelling Defendant’s further responses to the following discovery requests:
·        
Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set Two, Request Nos. 56,
57, and 58.
·        
Plaintiff’s
RFPs, Set Three, Request Nos. 62–65, 68–69, 71–77, 81, and 83.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motions are granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Sets Two and Three, as outlined
below. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $700.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges
that on 1/26/22, she was boarding a bus owned and operated by Defendant, when
the driver, defendant Jessica Cabrera, accelerated and/or braked hard, thereby knocking
Plaintiff unconscious. (Compl. ¶¶ 10–11.) On 1/18/23, Plaintiff filed her
complaint, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Negligence (against
Cabrera); and (4) Negligence (against Defendant). On 2/28/23, Defendant filed
its answer.
 
On 10/30/23, Plaintiff served her second and third set of RFPs
on Defendant. (Decl. of Curtis J. Crawford ¶ 1.) On 12/14/23, Defendant served
its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 2.)
 
On 1/30/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel Defendant’s
further responses to her second and third set of RFPs. On 3/8/24 and 3/11/24,
Defendant filed its oppositions. On 3/19/23, Plaintiff filed her replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law requires a
responding party to respond to each request for production of documents with
either a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or an objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210,
subd. (a).) If the
response includes an objection to the demand in part, it must also include a
statement of compliance or noncompliance as set forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the response must (1) identify the particular document that falls within the category of the request to which the
objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and
specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) 
 
A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a request for production if it
decides that “an objection in the response is without merit or too general.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that on 1/24/24, he sent Defendant’s counsel a meet-and-confer letter raising
the issues discussed herein. (Crawford Decl. ¶ 3.) On 1/25/24, Defendant’s
counsel responded, but the parties were unable to informally resolve the
discovery dipuste. (Id. at ¶ 4.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has
satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision
(b)(2).
 
B.    
Incident
Report
 
RFP Nos. 56 and 75
respectively seek “the incident report identified in Defendant LOS
ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY’s responses to Demand for
Production, Set One” and “all statements prepared by EMPLOYEE in connection
with the INCIDENT.” (Ex. 1 to RFP2 Mot.; Ex. 1 to RFP3 Mot.) Defendant objected
to the subject RFPs on the basis of attorney-client privilege.
 
“Communications
made by an insured to his liability insurance company, concerning an event
which may be made the basis of a claim against him covered by the policy, is a
privileged communication, as being between attorney and client, if the policy
requires the company to defend him through its attorney, and the communication
is intended for the information or assistance of the attorney in so defending
him.” (Scripps Health v. Superior
Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529,
535 [internal quotations omitted].) “When the corporate employer has more than
one purpose in requiring the report, the dominant purpose will control.” (Id. at 533; see also Sierra
Vista Hospital v. Superior Court for San Luis Obispo County (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 359, 367.)
 
In
Scripps, the Court of Appeal found that hospital occurrence reports were
protected by the attorney-client privilege where the hospital “was
self-insured, maintained in-house counsel, required completion of the
confidential occurrence reports for the purpose of attorney review and intended
the reports to be confidential.” (109 Cal.App.4th at 534.) In Sierra Vista, the Court of Appeal similarly held that an incident report made by the
defendant hospital’s director of nursing services and its administrator, which
was sent to the hospital’s insurer for the purpose of preparing to defend the hospital
in event a lawsuit should be filed by the plaintiff patient, was protected from
discovery by the attorney-client privilege. (248 Cal.App.2d at 369.)
 
In
Sierra Vista, the Court of Appeal elaborated that “where
the employee’s connection with the matter grows out of his employment to the
extent that his report or statement is required in the ordinary course of the
corporation’s business, the employee is no longer an independent witness, and
his statement or report is that of the employer … If, in the case of the
employee last mentioned, the employer requires (by standing rule or otherwise)
that the employee make a report, the privilege of that report is to be
determined by the employer’s purpose in requiring the same; that is to say, if
the employer directs the making of the report for confidential transmittal to
its attorney, the communication may be privileged.” (Id. at 367, quoting D. I.
Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court of City and County of San Francisco (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723.) 
 
However,
“it is the intent of the person from whom the information emanates that
originally governs its confidentiality (and hence its privilege); thus where
the employee who has not been expressly directed by his employer to make a
statement, does not know that his statement is sought on a confidential basis
(or knowing that fact does not intend it to be confidential), the intent of the
party receiving and transmitting that statement cannot control the question of
privilege.” (Ibid.) “Unless the insurance carrier (or its
agent) has advised the employer that the employee’s statement is to be obtained
and used in such manner, it cannot be said that the corporation intended the
statement to be made as a confidential communication from client to attorney.”
(Id. at 368.)
 
Here,
in relying on Scripps and Sierra Vista, Defendant
proffers the sworn declaration of Juanita Welch, Defendant’s Director of
General Liability Claims Administration, stating the following:
“Once the MTA receives notice of an accident
or injury, the matter is assigned to either MTA’s Third Party Administrator,
Carl Warren & Company (hereinafter ‘Carl Warren’) or MTA Risk Management,
depending on severity. Either Carl Warren or MTA Risk Management will handle
the claim(s) for the accident or injury before a lawsuit has been filed. … The
main purpose of the Reports is to provide the MTA's legal team (including its
Carl Warren staff, attorneys on MTA’s PL/PD panel and MTA risk management) with
information regarding the alleged accident or injury. To that end, the MTA
provides the Reports to County Counsel (which functions as in-house attorneys)
and to the attorneys on MTA's PL/PD panel.” (Ex. B to Decl. of Michal D.
Margolin, ¶¶ 6–7.)
 
Defendant
argues that “here, similar to Scripps Health, LACMTA is self-insured. Defendant
directs employees to complete an incident report. The dominant purpose for
these documents is the transmittal to defense counsel for use in the event of
litigation. In its response to Plaintiff’s discovery, LACMTA identified the documents
which it is claiming privilege on, who drafted them, what their dominant
purpose is, and when they were drafted.” (Def.’s RFP2 Opp. 3:7–11.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues on reply that statements in the Welch declaration “are directly
contradicted by Metro’s own Accident Investigation and Reduction Manual,” which
“delineates Metro’s procedures for investigating accidents, with its ‘Purpose’
section clearly stating that investigation reports are used for formulating
‘recommendations [...] for prevention.’” (Pl.’s RFP2 Reply 1:22–24, citing Ex.
6 to Suppl. Crawford Decl., p. 2.) Plaintiff contends that the dominant purpose
of the subject incident report is therefore accident prevention, because “as
indicated by Metro’s own investigation procedures, incident reports are
primarily used in furtherance of Metro’s safety policies and training. Metro
fails to establish that these specific incident reports were primarily intended
to be transmitted to an attorney.” (Id. at 3:1–3.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff, and finds that the
dominant purpose of the subject incident report appears to be accident
reduction. As such, the Court overrules Defendant’s privilege objections to RFP Nos. 56 and 75, and orders Defendant to produce further
responsive documents thereto. The Court notes that “once
the trial court makes a tentative decision that a communication is not
privileged, the party claiming the privilege may disclose the content of the
communication in camera to attempt to prevent the disclosure.” (League of
California Cities v. Superior Court (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 976, 990.)
 
C.   
Privilege
Log
 
RFP Nos. 58 and 83 seek
Defendant to produce “a privilege log for any documents withheld on the
basis of privilege or work product in response to the previous requests.” (Ex.
1 to RFP2 Mot.; Ex. 1 to RFP3 Mot.) “The purpose of a ‘privilege log’ is to
provide a specific factual description of documents in aid of substantiating a
claim of privilege in connection with a request for document production. … The
purpose of providing a specific factual description of documents is to permit a
judicial evaluation of the claim of privilege.” (Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 292.)
 
Here, while Defendant produced a responsive privilege
log, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s privilege log was defective because “it
fails to identify any recipients of the incident reports Defendant is
withholding and when those recipients received the reports.” (Pl.’s RFP2 Mot. 6:25–26.)
“Without this information, both Plaintiff and the Court cannot properly
evaluate Metro’s claims of privilege,” as there is “no evidence that either
report at issue was ever even sent to an attorney, or critically, a recipient
who would break privilege.” (Id. at 7:3–4; Pl.’s RFP2 Reply 3:12–14.) The
Court notes that Defendant does not address this issue in opposition.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that without identification of the recipients of the subject incident
reports, Plaintiff cannot properly determine whether Defendant’s claims of
attorney-client privilege have merit. Accordingly, the Court orders Defendant to produce further responsive documents to
RFP Nos. 58 and 83.
 
D.   
Employee
Personnel Records
 
RFP Nos. 62, 63, 71–74, 76, and
81 seek employee personnel records including “documents pertaining to Cabrera’s
fitness to drive on the date of the incident—such as Cabrera’s certifications,
drug testing records, disciplinary records, reprimands, training records, and
timecards.” (Pl.’s RFP3 Mot. 7:3–5.) In response, Defendant asserted that the
requests invade “the right of privacy of LACMTA and its public employees
whose privacy is protected by Section 1 of Article I of the Constitution of the
State of California and the United States Constitution; the Information
Practices Act of 1977; Civil Code §1798.1, et. seq., and related sections. … .
The right of privacy of public employees is also protected pursuant to Evidence
Code §1040 and related sections; Government Code §6254 and related sections.”
(Ex. 2 to Pl.’s RFP3 Mot.)
 
When information protected by the right to privacy
under article I, section 1 of the California Constitution is sought by way of
discovery, the burden falls on the party asserting a privacy interest to show
that their privacy interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of
the requesting party’s prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)   
 
A public entity has a
privilege to refuse to disclose and to prevent others from disclosing official
information, if an authorized person claims the privilege and disclosure is
either (1) prohibited by an act of Congress or a California statute, i.e., absolutely
privileged (Evid. Code § 1040, subd. (b)(1)), or (2) against the public
interest, i.e., conditionally privileged, subject to the judge’s
discretion (Id. at subd. (b)(2)). Official information is information
acquired in confidence by a public employee during his or her duty and not
open, or officially disclosed, to the public before the claim of privilege is
made. (Id. at subd. (a).)
 
Here, Defendant does not
claim any absolute privilege under Evidence Code section 1040, subd. (b)(1). If
the requested information is conditionally privileged, and “the public entity
satisfies the threshold burden of showing that the information was acquired in
confidence, the statute requires the court next to weigh the interests and to
sustain the privilege only if there is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality
of the information that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest
of justice.” (Marylander v. Superior Court (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1119,
1126 [internal quotations omitted].)
 
Here, the threshold burden
of whether Cabrera’s personnel records was acquired in confidence is not at
issue. Defendant asserts that it “did not provide responses to requests
which sought documents from the bus operator’s employment file which deal with
drug and alcohol testing and suspensions, if any, of the bus operator. These go
to her right of privacy and, as case law holds, does not have any bearing on
negligence as to this specific case.” (Def.’s RFP3 Opp. 5:18–21.) However, as
Plaintiff observes, Defendant cites to no case law supporting its contentions.
(Pl.’s RFP3 Reply 1:21–22.)
 
Plaintiff argues that “these document demands are
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence that goes
towards Cabrera’s fitness to drive the bus on the date of the incident.” (Pl.’s
RFP3 Mot. 8:25–26.) The requested “disciplinary records and reprimands
underscore Cabrera’s awareness of the dangers inherent in operating a bus.
These records would show Cabrera had knowledge of the potential risks
associated with her actions while operating the bus. Whether Cabrera had drug
or alcohol issues also goes directly to negligence, and California law agrees.
Vehicle Code section 21352(c) specifically makes it a criminal offense to drive
a vehicle while addicted to a drug. Documents showing whether this was the case
go to the heart of Cabrera’s fitness to operate a bus.” (Pl.’s RFP3 Reply 1:27–2:4.)
 
In weighing the parties’ respective interests, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that the requested information is relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims that Cabrera acted negligently in operating the bus during
the subject incident. Moreover, Plaintiff appears amendable “to a protective
order that will keep all of Cabrera’s employee records confidential throughout
the litigation thereby limiting the disclosure of the employee records to those
involved in the litigation.” (Id. at 3:4–7.) Accordingly, the Court
overrules Defendant’s privacy objections to RFP Nos. 62,
63, 71–74, 76, and 81, and orders Defendant to produce further responsive
documents thereto.
 
E.    
Training
Guidelines and Manuals
 
RFP Nos. 64, 65, 68, 69, and
77 seek “all manuals, guidelines, training materials, safety rules,
regulations and other similar documents issued to Cabrera.” (Pl.’s RFP3 Mot. 9:3.) In response, Defendant
asserted numerous objections and produced the LAMTA handbook. (Ex. 2 to Pl.’s
RFP3 Mot.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that
a further response is warranted because “Metro’s response fails to
indicate whether it is complying in whole or in part and thus is not a
code-compliant response. Metro must provide further responses that provide all
the required information or provide the remaining documents Defendant Metro is
currently refusing to identify or produce.” (Pl.’s RFP3 Mot. 9:14–17.) “A
statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state
that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related
activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all
documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.220.)
 
Defendant does not address this issue in its
opposition, and only asserts that the requested training materials are not
relevant in an action where, as here, there is no claim for negligent
hiring/supervision. Defendant therefore asserts that “the only relevant issues
in this action are whether the Bus Operator was negligent in the operation of
the bus at the time and place of the subject incident and if so, whether such
negligent caused injuries to Plaintiff.” (Def.’s RFP3 Opp. 3:25–27.) Discovery
is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonable calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
“Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)¿
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that she “may properly
obtain documents containing Metro’s safety policies and training procedures to
assess the issue of Defendant Cabrera’s negligence. At the very least,
Plaintiff is entitled to determine if Cabrera was acting in conformity with
Metro’s policies and her training at the time of the incident.” (Pl.’s RFP3
Reply 1:9–11.) The Court agrees that the requested materials are relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims, and also agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant’s responses
fail to indicate whether it is complying with the subject requests in whole or
in part.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendant’s responses to RFP Nos. 64, 65, 68, 69, and
77 are code-deficient, and orders Defendant to produce further responses
thereto.
 
F.    
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions in the total amount of $5,370.00 to be imposed on Defendant
and/or its counsel. This amount includes: (1) 9 hours of counsel’s time spent
working on the instant motions; (2) an anticipated 2 hours reviewing each
opposition and preparing Plaintiff’s reply; and (4) an anticipated 1 hour
appearing at each hearing, at his hourly billing rate of $350.00 per hour. (Crawford
Decl., ¶¶ 5–10.) Plaintiff also seeks to recover the filing fee for each motion
for a total of $120.00. (Id. at ¶ 7.)
 
 The Court finds it reasonable to impose
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $700.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
motions are granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to
Plaintiff’s RFPs, Sets Two and Three, as outlined above. The Court imposes
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $700.00.
 
The Court
notes the parties’ arguments regarding Defendant’s responses to RFP No. 56, but
declines to reach them as it appears that Defendant has since provided further
responses to this request.