  Case Number:  19STCV01820    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – WEST DISTRICT
BEVERLY HILLS
COURTHOUSE – DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON STIPULATED INITIAL SET OF MOTIONS IN LIMINE   
 
Edna Beteta v. LNR
Partners, et al., and related cross-complaints, Case No. 19STCV01820
Hearing Date: November
8, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
1.       Plaintiff
Motion in Limine (“MIL”) No. 8 re: General Contractor’s Incident Report

 
          This motion
seeks an order “admitting” an incident report of General Contractor by its
superintendent John Anderson. Plaintiff indicates General Contractor has
refused to produce this report on grounds of attorney client privilege and work-product
but that the “dominant purpose” of the report was to advise the owner of what
happened and therefore it was not privileged, citing D.I. Chadbourne v. Sup.
Ct. (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 737. She also argues in any event that General
Contractor has waived those privileges by Gabriel Hernandez having testified to
its contents at his deposition. She argues also that the independent report of
the Property Management Company (by Susan Hill (an employee of its managing
member, LNR)) is allegedly based on observations of Anderson and that Hernandez’s
denial of Anderson having taken the photo of what allegedly fell is rebutted by
the report.  
          General
Contractor notes that it had properly objected - in response to Form Interrogatory
No. 12.6 - to production of any reports concerning the incident on grounds of
attorney client privilege and work product, citing Nacht & Lewis
Architects v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214. In addition, it
had duly objected to its production at the Hernandez deposition on the grounds
that it was prepared in anticipation of litigation and provided to insurance
counsel. General Contractor does not address directly the arguments raised in
support of waiver. Instead, it asserts Plaintiff never sought to compel
production of the report before the discovery cut-off date to seek this report
- which date has now passed – and therefore it is now too late for Plaintiff to
obtain this report. 
          Plaintiff
does not offer any reply. 
          The purpose
of a MIL is to exclude prejudicial evidence. Plaintiff is not seeking to
exclude the report. Prime argues in opposition that this is in effect an
untimely motion to compel its production. Moreover, Plaintiff has not provided
sufficient information for the Court to evaluate any waiver. The Court does not
have either the testimony of either Hill or Hernandez. From what the Court can
see at this point General Contractor has duly sought to preserve its objection
and has not “intentionally relinquished” its rights to constitute a waiver of
these privileges. However, the Court does not now reach the issue of whether
the report is in fact protected from disclosure by reason of attorney client
privilege or work product without the opportunity to review the report (or if
the report might come in as rebuttal evidence.) The Court notes that Plaintiff
intends to subpoena General Contractor to bring the report to trial and
therefore the Court may have to face this issue if there is any objection to service
of that subpoena. Nacht & Lewis does not bar the production of all
incident reports and allows production of those prepared by independent
witnesses. (Id., 47 Cal.App.4th at 218) Merely handing a
report to counsel does not necessarily make that report privileged. (Id.)

DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE  
 
2.      
Owner MIL No. 1 re: the photograph of the square objects
with piping
 
          Owner seeks to exclude a photograph
of several square metal plates to which are attached circular metal pipes. This
photo was produced by Plaintiff in response to discovery as to any evidence of
what fell on her on March 13, 2017 outside the dentist’s office at the mall in
question. Owner argues there is insufficient authentication to allow this photo
to be received into evidence, under Evid. Code sec. 1401, and that to do so
would be more prejudicial than probative under Evid. Code sec. 352. Owner
argues Plaintiff has stated she did not take the photo, does not know who took
it and does not know where the objects depicted were located. In turn, the only
other witness to the incident, Daniel Sifuentes, testified he did not take the
photo, did not know who took the photo and did not recognize the objects
depicted. He also stated that what fell on Plaintiff was “light in weight” and
“not very thick.”[1] 
 
          General Contractor joins in the
motion. 
 
          Plaintiff argues in opposition that Susan
Hill of Mgm’t Co., will authenticate the photo as what fell on Plaintiff: Plaintiff
provided portions of deposition testimony of Hill, including that she received
what she included in her report from the general contractor that she did not
recall who took this photo – whether it was the general contractor or the
person whom she directed to take a picture of what fell on Plaintiff - either Thomas
Bartnett or Kris Weidman - and that this is a photo of a “sleeve” that she is
informed is what fell on Plaintiff.   
 
          The Court finds there is a lack of authentication
of the photo; i.e., who took it: Merely because Hill believes that that she
wanted to find out what happened as part of preparing her report does not also
mean she knew who took it. Her deposition testimony reveals she was not sure
whether it was Bartnett or Weidman. The foregoing is significant as it is not
clear what information either of them had to know what happened to warrant
taking the photo. (See Dahl-Beck Elec. Co. v. Rogge (1969) 275
Cal.App.2d 893, 902 (accident reports prepared in anticipation of litigation
are not admissible under Evid. Code sec. 1271 because they are not part of the
business’ routine business activities. An accident report compiling participant
and bystander statements and incorporating deductions and conclusions of
non-witness report writer is inadmissible.)) Moreover, it appears whatever
information Hill derived from Anderson. In its Reply, Owner points to
deposition testimony of Anderson that he did not know where the photo came from
either.
 
          Therefore, there is a lack of
foundation for its admissibility under Evid. Code sec. 403; namely, what
evidence there is to tie the image depicted with what fell on Plaintiff. Indeed,
the evidence that is attached to the motion indicates that what Sifuentes
believes fell on Plaintiff was different than what is depicted here. These
sleeves do not appear “light” and the description of their “not being very
thick” seems to be something other than an object to which a pipe is attached. Again,
Hill cannot provide sufficient foundation for its admissibility where what
information she has derived from others (who in turn did not know where it came
from). In turn, there is no evidence that Plaintiff knew what fell on her.
There is no evidence as to what investigation was done on site at the time in
question or where these objects were in relation to where Plaintiff was when
she was injured. (See Ashford v. Culver City Unified School Dist.
(2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 349, n. 5 (“testimony from someone who had
personal knowledge of the matters and circumstances depicted…”) 
          Where there is nothing to indicate what
object fell on her, a jury hearing that the object in the photo fell on
Plaintiff would undoubtedly be prejudicial to defendants if in fact it did not
do so. It is not hard to conceive a juror seeing that one of these seemingly
heavy metal objects purportedly falling on her head likely concluding it would cause
significant injury. 
 
GRANTED IF BASED SOLELY ON
HILL’S TESTIMONY 
 
 
3.      
Mgm’t Co. MIL No. 2 re: its own Incident Report
 
          Mgm’t Co. seeks to exclude its own investigation
report of its employee Susan Hill on grounds that it is hearsay and that the
business records exception in Evid. Code sec. 1271 is not applicable because (1)
it is not trustworthy and (2) it was not made in the ordinary course of
business. 
 
          Plaintiff opposes the motion on the
basis that (1) the report is admissible under the business records exception, (2)
the report is based upon the statements of four individuals who are all parties
to this case and therefore those are admissible as admissions of a party
opponent, (3) issues pertaining to its credibility should be left for the jury under
Evid. Code sec. 312(b) and (4) the report is admissible under Evid. Code sec.
351 unless otherwise provided by statute.  
 
          Initially, Mgm’t Co. should not be
able to exclude its own report on the basis that it is not trustworthy. If so,
that would allow a party to be able to exclude admissions or other prejudicial
testimony. Moreover, Plaintiff presents an argument that this report is more
trustworthy than later statements – after parties have had an opportunity to
meet with counsel and memories have faded – which instead point fingers at
other defendants who may also have responsibility. 
 
          Turning to the four arguments: 
 
          First, Plaintiff argues that Judge Pfahler
already overruled the objection to admissibility of the identical LNR incident
report based on the business records exception and that therefore the Mgm’t Co.
report should also be admissible. As indicated in the ruling above, however, see
Dahl-Beck, supra, 275 Cal.App.2d at 902 (accident reports prepared in
anticipation of litigation are not admissible under Evid. Code sec. 1271). The
Court does not need however to have to decide whether to follow the earlier
ruling or Dahl-Beck where the report is likely to be admitted at least
for limited purposes as discussed below. 
 
          Second, Plaintiff argues that the
report contains admissions that make the report admissible and cites to the
following conflicting accounts in support: 
 
-         
In
the Mgm’t Co. report, Hill states in part that the subcontractor “was on top of
the trellis unscrewing the pipe to the sprinkler head and just as he was to the
last thread of the pipe it slipped from his hands causing the diverter plan to
fall and striking Ms. Beteta on the top of her head and forehead. Sub stated the
area was fenced with yellow caution tape with an opening for patrons to access
Smile More Dental Studio. Sub stated there was a Prime Construction GC down
below while he was on top of trellis to monitor pedestrian traffic. Narbik [Bandary]
with US Fire Protection went….” 
 
-         
In
the US Fire report, Liam Rosenburg states in part that “Narbik just finished
removing a sprinkler head when a plate cover fell…” 
 
-         
By
contrast, Bandary (though not a party himself) testified at his deposition in
February 2020 that the sprinkler fell down “an hour or so” after he removed it.

 
          Hence, assuming Bandary testifies as
a witness, and his deposition is read, the report should be able to come in for
the purpose of showing either party admissions under Evid. Code sec. 1220 or prior
inconsistent statements under Evid. Code sec. 1235 (and Bandary can then have
an opportunity, under Evid. Code sec. 770, to explain or deny whether he made
those statements.) 
 
          Third, Plaintiff argues that where
the report is relevant to the underlying issues of causation and liability, and
as set forth above the contents of the report conflict with other statements, the
statements in the report should go to the jury. Evid. Code sec. 312(b) provides:
“Subject to the control of the Court, the jury is to determine the
effect and value of the evidence addressed to it, including the credibility of
witnesses and hearsay declarants.” (Emphasis added) Stated otherwise, the Court,
not a jury, still decides the admissibility of the report, under Evid. Code
sec. 310(a). In this way, the Court retains control over what the jury should
properly hear. That said, if Bandary testifies as indicated above, the jury
should then be able to determine what effect to give that testimony, including assessing
Bandary’s credibility, by way of hearing these prior inconsistent statements.  
 
          Fourth,  Evid. Code sec. 351 provides: “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, all relevant evidence is admissible.” Evid. Code
sec. 1200(b) provides: “Except as provided by law, hearsay evidence is
inadmissible.” On the other hand, secs. 1220 and 1235, hearsay exceptions,
apply. Hence, assuming the report comes in one of these ways, sec. 351 is not
applicable.  
 
DENIED IN PART (AS HEARSAY
EXCEPTIONS) AND OTHERWISE GRANTED 
 
 
4.      
General Contractor MIL No. 6 re: LNR Incident Report and
related reports 
 
 
          The LNR report is word-for-word
identical to the Mgm’t Co. report. (LNR was the managing member of Owner.) Hill
is an employee of LNR. 
 
          General Contractor argues that the
report is hearsay, does not fall within the business records exception and is
unreliable where Hill was not on site when the incident occurred, the person
she spoke to was Hernandez (who was also not then on site) and that the person
whom Hernandez spoke with (to give Hill a report) (Anderson) himself did not
see what happened – only having spoken to Bandary – who himself at least
testified at his deposition did not see what fell and provided a different
account of what happened than Hill did. General Contractor in turn argues
therefore under Evid. Code sec. 352 that the report (with its reference to
insurance) would be more prejudicial than probative. 
 
          Plaintiff opposes the motion for the
same reasons it opposed the motion of Mgm’t Co. to exclude its report. 
 
          The Court reaches the same
conclusions as it did with the identical Mgm’t Co. report. 
 
 
DENIED IN PART (AS HEARSAY
EXCEPTIONS) AND OTHERWISE GRANTED
 
 
5.      
Mgm’t Co. MIL No. 5 re: a portion of its Incident Report
 
 
 
          Mgm’t Co. argues that certain
language in its report should be excluded as “subsequent remedial measures”
under Evid. Code sec. 1151. Specifically, the report states:
 
“Construction
work involving overhead trellis/wood will not be performed while tenant units
are occupied. GC to perform trellis removal and reinstallation work in early am
hours. Site Superintendent remains onsite with all vendors. Areas are cordoned
off with caution tape and barriers.” 
 
          As Mgm’t Co. acknowledges, “[s]ection
1151 by its own terms excludes evidence of subsequent remedial or precautionary
measures only when such evidence is offered to prove negligent or culpable
conduct….This rule does not require the exclusion of evidence of subsequent
measures when offered for another purpose, such as proving ownership, control,
or feasibility of precautionary measures, if controverted, or impeachment.” (Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 149, 1169)  
 
          Mgm’t Co. argues, first, that this
language should be excluded as evidence of subsequent remedial measures, and
second, that the other permissible uses of such testimony should not be allowed
either as to do so would erroneously show its liability rather than that of
co-defendant, General Contractor. 
 
          As to Mgm’t Co.’s first point, the
tasks to be performed are not strictly “remedial” because as Mgm’t Co. itself
recognizes in its motion, these were “simply telling Prime what should have
happened in the first place…” (See p. 5, ln. 2-3) Remedial measures would typically
be those tasks to be taken over and above what was being done already. Therefore,
this argument fails.  
 
          As to the second point, Mgm’t Co. argues
that General Contractor has responsibility for these tasks and therefore the
jury may erroneously believe that taking on these tasks evidences a duty on its
part that it did not have. However, as noted above, it is precisely to address the
disputed issue of “control” as between the several defendants that such evidence
can permissibly be offered. (See Alpert v. Villa Romano HOA (2000)
81 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1341, Morehouse v. Taubman (1970) 5
Cal.App.3d 548, 555) The Court does not now reach which defendant(s) have
applicable duties to Plaintiff; that issue will be for the jury to decide. Moreover,
Plaintiff shows the issue of “control” is important: There is a dispute as to
whether there was a cordon in front of the entrance to the building on that day
and which party had that responsibility – pointing to Ex. E to the Garrard Decl.
(Hill deposition testimony) indicating Mgm’t Co. may have had such responsibility,
notwithstanding the contractual language Mgm’t Co. relies upon in the motion
that it was General Contractor’s responsibility. Hence, as Plaintiff notes, this
opinion may come in to rebut Mgm’t Co.’s position that it has no responsibility
on the basis that it was off-site. Therefore, the Court also rejects the
argument that this “precautionary” language should be excluded. 
 
          In doing so, the Court considered the
authorities discussed in both the opposition and reply and concludes that where
there is in this case a key factual issue related to which defendant(s) exercised
relevant control that there is insufficient basis to exclude this statement on
grounds of undue prejudice. This is not just an issue of liability to Plaintiff
– as in the cases discussed in the reply. Moreover, the statement does not
indicate Mgm’t Co., rather than General Contractor, having liability.   
 
DENIED
 
 
6.      
General Contractor MIL No. 3 re: Philip Rosescu concerning
standard of care
 
 
           General Contractor argues that
Rosescu is a civil engineer, not a contractor, and therefore cannot testify to
the duties of owners and contractors. It is argued also that he fails to give
an opinion as to which party is at fault (stating at deposition that he was not
there to “point fingers”) and therefore has nothing to offer. 
 
          Plaintiff argues in opposition that
Judge Pfahler already overruled objections to a declaration of Rosescu filed in
connection with the summary judgment motions – encapsulating his various
opinions - and that therefore this Court should allow him to testify.[2] It
appears Rosescu is a member of numerous professional organizations devoted in
part to safety issues. Plaintiff argues also that he has provided expert
opinions concerning proper safety measures to take during construction or
demolition work, including obligations of vendors and customers - consistent
with his professional background. 
 
          Rosescu’s experience as a civil
engineer is a sufficient foundation for giving an opinion as to the safety of
work being performed and as to what other actions might have been taken. Safety
measures are not solely the province of a contractor. 
 
          Rosescu, however, cannot give an
opinion as to which of the defendants had the relevant duty, or failed to meet
the standard of care, for two reasons: First, it appears to be beyond his
expertise. Second, just as importantly, he did not give an opinion - as to
responsibility by and between the defendants - at his deposition (and therefore
cannot now provide one at trial.) Hence, even if the Court previously considered
his declaration on summary judgment does not also mean he can now testify at
trial where he did not meet the additional requirement for trial that he
provide any opinions he has reached beforehand at deposition. 
 
         As a result, Rosescu may testify so
long as the opinion is solely what is reasonably expected as far as safety
measures for this sort of project generally -- without going further and
opining as to which party(ies) may have responsibility.  
 
GRANTED IN PART 
 
 
7.      
Owner MIL No. 2 re: testimony from Philip Rosescu concerning
standard of care 
 
          Owner argues that Rosescu did not
provide any opinion at his deposition as to whether Owner failed to meet any
standard of care of an owner of commercial real property that delegates various
responsibilities to others and that therefore his testimony should be excluded.

 
          Plaintiff did not file any opposition
to the motion. However, this motion is functionally the same as the motion
immediately above – to which Plaintiff did file opposition. (No. 6). The Court
has the same analysis. 
 
GRANTED IN PART 
 
 
 
8.      
General Contractor MIL No. 8 re: USFP Expert John Tolman
 
          General
Contractor seeks to exclude Tolman, a contractor, from giving expert testimony
as to whether (1) General Contractor can delegate safety at the site to anyone
else, (2) a sub-contractor owes a duty to a business invitee such as Plaintiff,
(3) General Contractor has responsibility for any sub-contractor negligence and
(4) the ANSI standards control liability. General Contractor contends that his
opinions are contrary to California law and would mislead jurors. 
          USFP, the
subcontractor, notes the incident occurred on the one day it was scheduled to
be on site for the very limited role it had in this bigger project that Owner had
hired General Contractor to undertake. USFP notes the provisions of the AIA
document pursuant to which Owner and General Contractor entered into their
agreement. Noted also is that USFP was not a party to that agreement. 
          USFP’s
expert disclosure indicates the subject matter related to contract management
for construction contracts that Tolman would testify concerning. The motion
does not indicate Tolman would not have expertise as a contractor to testify on
this subject. The opposition indicates some of the foundation that Tolman
relied upon for his opinions. The motion does not indicate that this is
insufficient foundation and instead asserts that certain legal conclusions are erroneous.
This is not a basis to wholly exclude his testimony. 
          General
Contractor can instead cross-examine Tolman as to his opinions and it will be
up to the jury to assess the validity of or the weight to give those opinions. As
made clearer in the Reply, certain limited portions of his opinions may, however,
be subject to separate objection, including that they contradict the summary
judgment ruling of this Court concerning USFP’s duties independent of whatever
duty General Contractor also may have. In addition, to the extent Tolman is
asked to provide opinions as to parties’ legal duties or to interpret
agreements, separate and apart from giving an opinion as to the level of work
performed, those opinions, including as to legal responsibility between it and General
Contractor for equitable indemnity or apportionment of liability, may be
subject to separate objection if asked to provide. The Court does not now reach
those issues. 
DENIED IN PART. 
 
9.      
Mgm’t Co. MIL No. 1 re: testimony from USFP Expert John
Tolman
 
 
          Mgm’t
Co.’s motion raises much the same arguments as did General Contractor’s motion.
Likewise, USFP’s opposition is substantially the same as its opposition to
Mgm’t Co.’s motion. That Mgm’t Co. did not have a direct contractual
relationship with Owner, as did General Contractor, is of no significance in
terms of Tolman being excluded from stating an opinion concerning respective levels
of responsibility – a subject referenced in the expert witness disclosure, with
the same caveat as noted above. The Court reaches the same conclusion as it did
on General Contractor’s motion. 
 
DENIED IN PART. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                     _________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


