 Case Number:  23STCV15836    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JILL
  BELASCO 
 
         vs.
 
FOUNTAIN
  OF WELLBEING, INC, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15836 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 1, 2024




 
Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART, SUSTAINED IN PART. Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action. Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the eighth cause of
action.
 
On 7/6/2023,
Plaintiff Jill Belasco (Plaintiff) filed suit against Fountain of Wellbeing,
Inc., Romie Chaudhari, and Unite4, LLC. On 3/28/2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) failure to pay wages; (2) waiting time
penalties; (3) failure to reimburse business expenses; (4) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED); (6) defamation; (7) declaratory relief; and (8)
sexual harassment. 
 
            On
4/30/2024, Defendants Fountain of Wellbeing, Inc. and Romie Chaudhari
(collectively, Defendants) demurred to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
causes of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim as to the fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action. Given that the fifth cause of action
relies on allegations set forth in the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of
action, the Court addresses that cause of action last.  
 
            As
for the sixth cause of action for defamation, Defendants argue that this claim
fails under a theory of vicarious liability or alter-ego. However, an employer
can be held vicariously liable for defamatory statements made by an employee. (Agarwal
v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 950.) Tellingly, Defendant does not cite
any legal authority to show otherwise. (“This failure to cite pertinent legal
authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of
California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to
cite legal authority). Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Chaudhari, acting
as CEO of the company she was employed by, made defamatory statements that
implicated her professional reputation. As such, Plaintiff has alleged facts
which could show that Defendant Chaudhari engaged in defamatory conduct while
acting within the scope of his employment, and thus has alleged facts which
could show a basis of Defendant Fountain of Wellbeing’s vicarious liability. 
 
            Defendants
did not advance any substantive argument that Plaintiff’s substantive
allegations with respect to defamation were insufficient. 
 
            As
for the seventh cause of action for declaratory relief, Defendant argues that
“Belasco does not adequately allege the rights and duties at issue and does not
state which legal theory under which she is seeking declaratory relief as
required by California law.” (Demurrer, 10: 13-15.) However, Plaintiff clearly
alleges that:
 
An actual
controversy has arisen and now exists between Plaintiff and Defendants.
Plaintiff contends that Defendant Chaudhari defaulted under the terms of the
Stock Transfer Agreement by not paying the $100 consideration when due.
Subsequently, the parties entered into a new agreement regarding the transfer
of Plaintiff’s shares in FWB in exchange for giving Plaintiff value in the
acquiring company upon closing of the sale of FWB to Buyer and Defendant
Chaudhari's assumption of all liability the Cannabis Taxes.
 
… 
 
Plaintiff is
requesting a declaration by the court that Defendant Chaudhari defaulted on the
Stock Transfer Agreement and the subsequent agreement, and therefore, Plaintiff
remains the beneficial owner of her shares in FWB.
 
            (FAC
¶¶ 107, 109.) 
 
            As
such, Plaintiff seeks a determination that Defendant Chaudhari defaulted on
various agreements (the material terms of which Plaintiff has alleged), and
that Plaintiff remains the beneficial owner of her shares in Defendant FWB.
These allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage to state a claim.
 
            As
for the eighth cause of action, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegations
do not amount to sexual harassment. 
 
A claim for
sexual harassment under FEHA must allege five elements: (1) plaintiff belongs
to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to unwelcome sexual harassment;
(3) the harassment complained of was based on sex; (4) the harassment
complained of was pervasive enough to alter the conditions of employment and
create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior. (Kelley
v. The Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that, “[o]n numerous occasions during her employment,
Plaintiff was forced to endure a hostile work environment, listening to
Defendant Chaudhari bragging about his sex life in her presence, using graphic
language to describe and allude to his sexual exploits.” (FAC ¶ 3.) The Court
agrees that, as alleged, these allegations are insufficiently general and
conclusory. A single allegation that Defendant Chaudhari “bragged” on an
unspecified amount of occasions about his sex life is insufficient to show
severe and pervasive conduct sufficient to alter the conditions of employment.
However, the Court concludes leave to amend is appropriate to provide Plaintiff
the opportunity to add more specific allegations. 
 
Finally, as
to the fifth cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged
facts which could show extreme and outrageous conduct. However, as set forth
above, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged claims for defamation and violations
of the Labor Code (which are not challenged here). Whether or not Defendants’
conduct, in fact, rises to the level of extreme and outrageous is a factual
determination not properly made at this stage of proceedings. 
            
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled in part, sustained in part.
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of
action. Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend, as to
the eighth cause of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 