  Case Number:  21STCV00093    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TIMOTHY
  COLOMEY 
       
       v.
 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES 
                                            


 Case No.: 
  21STCV00093
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 1, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s psychological evaluation is GRANTED.
 
On 1/4/2021,
Plaintiff Timothy Colomey (Plaintiff) filed suit against the City of Los
Angeles (Defendant), alleging whistleblower retaliation.
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel the independent medical examination of Plaintiff. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel the independent medical examination of Plaintiff by Dr. David
K. Wellisch, on the grounds that Plaintiff has put his mental condition in
controversy. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that this motion is an improper motion for
reconsideration and cannot be considered because discovery is closed. Plaintiff
also argues the motion should be denied on the merits.
 
            As
to the first contention, the Court denied the ex parte because there was not
sufficient time before the impending trial to conduct the examination. When
discussing the ex parte at the Final Status Conference on May 2, 2024, the
Court stated that it likely “ruled because of the trial date” and the limited
time before trial made it “real easy to deny the ex parte.” The Court
continued, “now that we have a little bit of breathing room, I don’t mind
hearing [the] motion . . . I can actually hear it more on the merits, not on a
hard-line rule, you’re way too late.” Further, the Court stated that it would
advance the hearing to ensure sufficient time for the examination if the Court
grants the motion to compel.
 
            As
such, the Court disagrees that this motion has already been considered on the
merits, or that Defendant is barred from bringing this motion. 
 
The trial
court has wide discretion and ability to control the proceedings before it,
including the right to allow discovery at different times of a case. The
authority is memorialized in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050. 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff underwent an investigation of mental and emotional distress,
psychological and psychiatric diagnoses, and mental health treatment on
1/8/2024. Plaintiff did not provide any notice of this examination until April
2024. Despite Plaintiff’s position is that fact discovery ended on 8/28/2023,
Plaintiff scheduled his mental health expert examination four months after 8/28/2023,
and the City only discovered the existence of the examination another four
months thereafter. The need for the City’s mental health expert to examine
Plaintiff became concrete in April 2024, and thus the timing of the City’s
filing was not the result of undue delay. 
 
            Plaintiff
has not identified any meaningful prejudice that would result if the
examination were to go forward. By contrast, Defendant would suffer prejudice
if denied the opportunity to psychologically exam Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges
substantial mental and emotional damage and suffering, both past and ongoing.
(Cianci Decl. ¶¶3, 5, Exhs. 1, 3.) He states that he has received medical
treatment and medication for these afflictions. (Cianci Decl. ¶¶7-8, Exhs.
5-6.) Further, Plaintiff believes his afflictions merit examination and
designated a mental health expert who will base a large part of his expert
testimony about Plaintiff’s emotional and mental issues on his January 2024
examination of Plaintiff. (Cianci Decl. ¶¶14-15.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s psychological
evaluation is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 