 Case Number:  23STCV24551    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
3-7-24
Case
#23STCV24551
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
ARBITRATION & STAY
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Kisco Senior Living, LLC, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Christopher Alpert
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay of Action
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In February 18, 2018, plaintiff Christopher Alpert began
employment with defendants Kisco Senior Living, LLC and KRC Anaheim, L.P. dba
Emerald Court, as a “Utility Worker,” with main duties assigned as a
dishwasher. Beginning in September/October 2019, Plaintiff began experiencing
“degenerative” based “physical disabilities” in his neck, back and hands, which
led to a medical accommodation of a front desk assignment, host, with
interspersed delivery duties. Said delivery work exacerbated the medical
condition, which led to a 60-day medical leave beginning on June 19, 2021. In
September 2021, Plaintiff was informed of no available positions to accommodate
his medical condition, and was given the option of either resigning or facing
termination. 
 
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a nine (9) cause of
action complaint for FEHA Discrimination (Gov. Code §12940(a)); Failure to
Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(m)); Failure to Engage in
Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(n)); FEHA Harassment
(Gov. Code §12940(j)); FEHA Retaliation (Gov. Code §12940(h), (m)); CFRA
Interference and Retaliation (Gov. Code § 12945.1, et seq.); FEHA Failure to
Prevent (Gov. Code §12940(k)); Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy;
and, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
RULING: Denied
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled.
·        
The
court concludes the executed arbitration agreement exists. Dyer may also state company
policies for onboarding new hires.
·        
The
court allows the statements of plaintiff Alpert for purposes of establishing
context of the presented arbitration agreements, and otherwise declines to
consider statements regarding work conditions unrelated to the motion. 
 
Defendants
Kisco Senior Living, LLC and KRC Anaheim, L.P. dba Emerald Court move to compel
arbitration on the complaint of plaintiff Christopher Apert, and a stay of the
case. Defendants move to compel arbitration based on the arbitration provisions
in the Applicant’s Statement & Agreement and the Comprehensive Agreement
Employment At-Will and Arbitration documents. Defendants maintain all claims
are subject to arbitration under the terms of the agreement. Plaintiff in
opposition challenge enforcement of the agreement on grounds within the
language of the agreement, as well as legal bars. Defendants in reply maintain
the existence of the executed arbitration agreement and enforceability.
Defendants deny the unconscionability arguments as well, and otherwise maintain
the ability to sever any offending sections. Defendants also downplay the
importance of the modification procedure challenge.
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
The agreements require
arbitration for any claims arising from employment. Federal Arbitration
Act governs the rules for conducting arbitration with acknowledgment of
California Arbitration Act regulations. (See Adolph v. Uber Technologies,
Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1119; Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct.
1906; Volt Information Sciences, Inc.
v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University (1989)
489 U.S. 468, 477–479; Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) 
 
California law creates a general presumption in favor of
arbitration. In a motion to
compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence
the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by
the agreement. “‘Under “both
federal and state law, the threshold question presented by a petition to compel
arbitration is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.”’” (Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 855, 861.) “Private arbitration is a
matter of agreement between the parties and is governed by contract law. (Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993)
6 Cal.4th 307, 313.) In a
motion to compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of
evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is
covered by the agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial (e.g., fraud,
unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin'l Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164–165; Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) Any challenges to the formation of the arbitration agreement
should be considered before any order sending the parties to arbitration. The trier of fact weighs all evidence, including
affidavits, declarations, documents, and, if applicable, oral testimony to
determine whether the action goes to arbitration. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 758.)
 
The court interprets the
arbitration clause like any other contract, including determination of the
intent of the parties and ambiguities. (Gravillis
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 761, 772.) “‘A contract must
be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as
it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable
and lawful.’ (Civ. Code, § 1636.) ‘The language of a contract is to govern its
interpretation, if the language is clear and explicit, and does not involve an
absurdity.’ (Civ. Code, § 1638.) ‘When a contract is reduced to writing, the
intention of the parties is to be ascertained from the writing alone, if
possible; subject, however, to the other provisions of this Title.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1639.) “The whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect
to every part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the
other.’ (Civ. Code, § 1641.) ‘A contract must receive such an interpretation as
will make it lawful, operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being
carried into effect, if it can be done without violating the intention of the
parties.’ (Civ. Code, § 1643.) ‘The words of a contract are to be understood in
their ordinary and popular sense, rather than according to their strict legal
meaning; unless used by the parties in a technical sense, or unless a special
meaning is given to them by usage, in which case the latter must be followed.’
(Civ. Code, § 1644.) ‘However broad may be the terms of a contract, it extends
only to those things concerning which it appears that the parties intended to
contract.’ (Civ. Code, § 1648.) ‘Repugnancy in a contract must be reconciled,
if possible, by such an interpretation as will give some effect to the
repugnant clauses, subordinate to the general intent and purpose of the whole
contract.’ (Civ. Code, § 1652.) ‘Stipulations which are necessary to make a
contract reasonable, or conformable to usage, are implied, in respect to
matters concerning which the contract manifests no contrary intention.’ (Civ.
Code, § 1655.)” (Siligo v.
Castellucci (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 873, 880–881.)
 
“A contract term should not be construed to render some of
its provisions meaningless or irrelevant.” (Estate
of Petersen (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1742, 1754 (footnote 4).) “A
well-settled maxim states the general rule that ambiguities in a form contract
are resolved against the drafter. (Citations.) But that is a general rule; it
does not operate to the exclusion of all other rules of contract
interpretation. It is used when none of the canons of construction succeed in
dispelling the uncertainty.” (Oceanside
84, Ltd. v. Fidelity Federal Bank (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1448.)
 
The court considers
that the Applicant’s Statement & Agreement was executed by Alpert with an
unidentified entity called “Company.” [Declaration of Nikkiana Dyer, Ex. A.] The
second At-Will and Arbitration agreement was also executed by Alpert with
Emerald Court identified. [Id., Ex. B.] The “Emerald Court” lacks any signature
from any representative employee or officer. [Dyer Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.] The
continued employment however supports a finding of acceptance of the agreement
with Emerald Court for purposes of the motion barring any factual challenges
from Plaintiff. (Gorlach v. Sports Club Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1508.)
 
Plaintiff
challenges the second agreement as improperly seeking to modify the first
agreement, in that any modification may only be made by the “president” of the
“Company.” While the court appreciates the plain language of the agreements,
the court cannot determine any material change to the sought after arbitration
provision based on the second agreement, thereby supporting an
unconscionability argument, and declines to speculate on impacts under the
arbitration standard. (Casas v. Carmax Auto
Superstores California LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1233, 1237.)
 
The court finds the terms of the agreement(s) encapsulate
all claims raised in the complaint. Thus, the court finds a valid arbitration
agreement between Alpert and “Company” and Emerald Court for purposes of
seeking arbitration under one or both agreements. The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff to challenge enforcement. The court considers the myriad arguments
under unconscionability presented in opposition. 
 
Unconscionability claims have both a “‘procedural’” and
“‘substantive’” element. (Stirlen v.
Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1531.) “‘Procedural
unconscionability’” concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated
and the circumstances of the parties at that time. (Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) “‘The procedural element focuses on two factors:
“oppression” and “surprise.” 
“Oppression” arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results
in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice. “Surprise” involves
the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden
in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed
terms.’” (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc.,
supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at p. 1532.) “Substantive unconscionability” involves
contracts leading to “‘“overly harsh”’” or “‘“one-sided”’” results.’” …
“[U]nconscionability turns … on an absence of ‘justification “for it…” [and
therefore] must be evaluated as of the time the contract was made.’” (Ibid.)
 
In the employment context, a mandatory arbitration
agreement is enforceable, if it “(1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2)
provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4)
provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court,
and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any
arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration
forum.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) Required execution of
an arbitration agreement as a condition of employment may constitute an
unconscionable provision, where the contract lacks mutuality and/or imposes a
disadvantage on the employee. (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp.
114-118; Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003)
29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071-1072.) A showing of procedural
unconscionability will not invalidate an arbitration clause, but can lead to
greater scrutiny under the substantive standard, thereby supporting
invalidation. (Davis v. TWC Dealer Group, Inc., supra, 41 Cal.App.5th at p. 674 accord OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 129-130.)
 
Cases
addressing unconscionability continues to offer guidance on the standard in the
case of employment adhesion contract—an agreement substantively presented as a “take
or it leave it” agreement imposing a potential disadvantage on the employee. “With respect to preemployment arbitration contracts, we have observed that ‘the economic
pressure exerted by employers on all but the most sought-after employees may be
particularly acute, for the arbitration agreement stands between the employee
and necessary employment, and few employees are in a position to refuse a job
because of an arbitration requirement.’” (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho, surpa, 8 Cal.5th at
p. 127 accord Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
115; Hasty v. American Automobile
Association of Northern California, Nevada & Utah (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 1041 [317 Cal.Rptr.3d
295, 309-311]; see Grand Prospect Partners, L.P.
v. Ross Dress for Less, Inc. (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1351.)
 
While
the basis of review exists, the burden still remains on the challenging party
to establish the defense. Plaintiff essentially relies on recitation of
numerous cases for the argument of procedural unconscionability due to the
inability to review the terms, including the option of reviewing with an
attorney, before signing the agreement. Plaintiff also maintains the font size
and “density” of the text rendered reading and understanding the agreement
difficult. Plaintiff admits to applying for the job, while employed in another
position, but also seeking a better job opportunity. [Declaration of
Christopher Alpert.]
 
The
court finds insufficient support on the textual presentation of the agreement
argument. Both clauses in both agreements are in fact in bold type and
in ALL CAPS which distinguishes a key portion of the clause from the
surrounding text. [Dyer Decl., Ex. A & B.] The opposition otherwise lacks
any specific argument challenging the language of the actual agreement, as
considered by other courts. (Davis v. TWC Dealer Group, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 662, 674.) The court therefore finds no
procedural unconscionability on this basis.
 
The
declaration of Alpert, however, presents facts establishing an adhesion
contract, even considering the Dyer declaration regarding company policy allowing
employees time to review the agreement. The court can infer under the
circumstances that Plaintiff was rightfully seeking improved gainful
employment, but again, the opposition lacks contextual facts establishing a
disadvantage under the circumstances whereby economic distress forced Plaintiff
to accept the terms or risk unemployment. Furthermore, and in conjunction with
the total context, the court also finds Plaintiff fails to establish material
disadvantage as a result of the purportedly limited time to review the terms. 
 
In other words, even completely disregarding the
statement of Dyer regarding company policy allowing for timely review, and
accepting the truth of Alpert’s declaration without challenge, the opposition
still lacks a fundamental showing of unfairness sufficient to warrant a finding
of procedural unconscionability under the totality of the circumstances. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, supra,
8 Cal.5th at pp. 126-127; Hasty v. American Automobile
Association of Northern California, Nevada & Utah, supra, 98 Cal.App.5th 1041 [317 Cal.Rptr.3d at pp.
309-311]; Davis v. TWC Dealer Group, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 662, 674; Grand Prospect Partners, L.P. v. Ross Dress for Less, Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 1349, 1352-1354.) 
 
As addressed
above in a different context, the court also notes Plaintiff’s lack of any
potential unconscionability arising from the presentation of the second agreement
during the course of employment, especially in context of the previously noted
lack of articulated impact on the purported modification on the first agreement.
(OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 127.) The court therefore finds no
factually supported basis of procedural unconscionability, as part of the
challenging’s party burden. 
 
On
substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff again cites to the standard with
conclusions of an unfair one-sided agreement and lack of mutuality. Plaintiff
follows up however with claims of illegal provisions, such as a required
physical examination, drug testing protocols, personality profiling, and a
release of all claims against prior employers. 
 
“(b)
Post-Offer. An employer or other covered entity may condition a bona fide offer
of employment on the results of a medical or psychological examination or
inquiries conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty in order to
determine fitness for the job in question. For a job offer to be bona fide, an
employer must have either completed all non-medical components of its
application process or be able to demonstrate that it could not reasonably have
done so before issuing the offer, provided that: (1) All entering employees in
similar positions are subjected to such an examination. (2) Where the results
of such medical or psychological examination would result in disqualification,
an applicant or employee may submit independent medical opinions for
consideration before a final determination on disqualification is made.
(3) The
results are to be maintained on separate forms and shall be accorded
confidentiality as medical records.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11071.)
 
Plaintiff
denies any necessity of a fitness determination or personality test, though it
remains factually unsupported as to any details of the job duties or basis of potential
job requirements. Nothing in the opposition in any way suggests that Plaintiff
presented to the job with any disability or personality disorder, and/or was
potentially subject to disqualification as a result of any physical and
psychological examination requirement. While the court finds the argument
legally valid, again, the opposition lacks factual support.
 
The next
argument involves a purported potential violation of any disclosure of physical
examination results from a physician to the employer. Plaintiff lacks reference
to any specific section of the regulation, but the section itself apparently
accounts for potential third party examination with confidentiality
protections. Again, the court finds a lack of specific support.
 
Plaintiff
next challenges the drug testing policy. “Drug or Alcohol Testing. An employer
or other covered entity may maintain and enforce rules prohibiting employees
from being under the influence of alcohol or drugs in the workplace and may
conduct alcohol or drug testing for this purpose if they have a reasonable
belief that an employee may be under the influence of alcohol or drugs at work.
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11071, subd. (d)(2).) Plaintiff maintains the
subject clause violates the regulation: “I understand that the Company reserves
the right to require me to submit to a test for the presence of drugs in my
system prior to employment and at any time during my employment, to the extent
permitted by law.” Again, the language regarding compliance with the law
indicates intended compliance with the applicable regulation rather than the
advocated improper open-ended basis for testing. 
 
Plaintiff otherwise raises no other substantive
factually supported challenges on unconscionability. The court finds the terms,
including limitations on discovery and arbitrator neutrality, proper. The
agreement therefore complies with the applicable standard for employer
arbitration agreements.
 
The court, in its discretion
therefore finds no need to discuss severance. 
“(a) If the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any clause of
the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the court may
refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract
without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any
unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.” (Civ. Code, §
1670.5.) The terms neither offend, nor permeate the entire agreement rendering
potential severance unfeasible. (Hasty
v. American Automobile Association of Northern California, Nevada & Utah, supra, 98 Cal.App.5th 1041 [317 Cal.Rptr.3d at pp.
316-317.]
 
The court however remains
unconvinced as to the basis compelling arbitration amongst all parties,
especially non-signatory party KSL. Defendants
seek to designate KSL as a third-party beneficiary. Defendants represent that
non-signatory party KSL provides administrative services to Emerald Court. The
court finds the dependence on the language binding “owners,
directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, and parties affiliated with
its employee benefit and health plans” lacking factual support establishing any such legal a relationship between
the parties for purposes of compelling arbitration. [Dyer Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8.]
 
“Every
California case finding nonsignatories to
be bound to arbitrate is based on facts that demonstrate, in one way or
another, the signatory's implicit authority to act on behalf of the nonsignatory.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 295, 304; Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d
475, 478–479; Rowe v. Exline (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1290.) “A nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when
a preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the
parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel
the nonsignatory to arbitrate as well.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th
1222, 1240.) “Examples of the preexisting relationship include agency, spousal
relationship, parent-child relationship and the relationship of a general
partner to a limited partnership. (Citations.) In the
absence of such a relationship, or third party beneficiary status, courts will
generally not compel a nonsignatory to arbitrate.” (Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070.) “A nonsignatory plaintiff can be
compelled to arbitrate a claim even against a nonsignatory party, when the
claim is itself based on, or inextricably intertwined with, the contract
containing the arbitration clause.” (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court, supra,
193 Cal.App.4th at p. 1241.)
 
Nothing in the motion expressly addresses the legal
relationship with KSL, and therefore sufficient basis for a joinder of the KSL
defendant to the arbitration. While Plaintiff designates it as an employer, the
burden still remains on the moving party to establish the basis compelling
arbitration for all parties. The court finds no contractual basis for
arbitration as to this party. 
 
The court, as a matter of policy, avoids potential piecemeal
adjudication of cases, and maintains all parties either participate in
arbitration or remain with the court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (c-d).) The court, in its discretion, therefore, denies
the motion to arbitrate, due to the failure of defendants to establish a basis
of arbitration joining all parties. 
 
Case Management Conference will be
concurrently held. Defendants are ordered to answer the complaint within 10
days of this order.
 
Moving parties to give notice to all parties.
 