  Case Number:  24STCV17079    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Paul DiCocco,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV17079




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Affiliated Pathologists Medical Group, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Affiliated Pathologists
Medical Group, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Paul DiCocco
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE FIRST,
SECOND AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF
ACTION IS SUSTAINED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANT TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Paul
DiCocco filed a complaint against Defendant Affiliated Pathologists Medical
Group, Inc., asserting causes of action for (1) fraudulent inducement; (2)
negligent misrepresentation; (3) fraud by concealment; (4) whistleblower
retaliation; (5) defamation; and (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Plaintiff alleges Defendant misrepresented the job title and duties
for which Plaintiff was hired. Plaintiff dismissed the sixth cause of action
October 28, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First,
Second, and Third Causes of Action for Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Defendant demurs to the first, second and
third causes of action for fraud on the ground that they fail state sufficient
facts. Plaintiff alleges he applied and interviewed for a “Gross Technician”
position at Defendant’s medical practice. Once hired, Plaintiff was given a
badge with the title “Physician’s Assistant” and was assigned work that should
be performed by a PA, rather than GT. Plaintiff alleges Defendant made these
misrepresentations to induce Plaintiff to do the work of a PA with the lower
salary of a GT. This is sufficient to allege causes of action for fraud.
The demurrer to the first, second, and third
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Fifth Cause of Action for Defamation
 
The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a
publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a
natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. (See Wong v. Tai Jing
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369.)
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action
on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege to whom the defamatory statements
were made and what the defamatory statements were. In opposition, Plaintiff
acknowledges the deficiencies in this cause of action and requests leave to
amend.
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
C. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. As
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged fraud, Plaintiff has alleged entitlement to
punitive damages. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 