 Case Number:  22VEVC00794    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




JANE
  JK DOE,
 
Plaintiff.
 
v.
 
DIVIJ
  SACHDEVA, CRT, et al.,
 
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV00794                     107




COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Demurrer - with Motion
  to Strike (CCP 430.10)



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
[TENTATIVE RULING:] 
 
(1) Demurrer to First Amended Complaint- Overruled as to the first and
fourth causes of action; sustain, with leave to amend as to the fifth cause of
action
 
(2) Motion to Strike- Granted.
 
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 
A. Factual
 
The following facts are drawn from the First Amended Complaint (as defined
below). On July 15, 2020, plaintiff Jane JK Doe (“Plaintiff”) was admitted to a
hospital with a small bowel obstruction and underwent emergency surgery.
Plaintiff remained at the hospital recovering from the surgery for a few days.
On July 18, 2020, defendant Divij Sachdeva (“Sachdeva”), a certified radiologic
technologist at the hospital, entered Plaintiff’s room and sexually assaulted her
without her consent. The following day, Sachdeva again entered Plaintiff’s room
at the hospital and sexually assaulted her without her consent. Plaintiff
reported Sacheva’s actions to her nurse, who told her he would advise his
supervisors. The remaining defendants, West Hills Hospital (the “Hospital”),
HCA Health Services of California (“HCA California”), HCA Health Services of Tennessee,
Inc. (“HCA Tennessee”), HCA Healthcare, Inc. (“HCA Healthcare”), and C/HCA,
Inc. (together with Sachdeva, the Hospital, HCA California, HCA Tennessee, and
HCA Healthcare, the “Defendants”), are the entities which own the hospital and
employed Sachdeva.
 
B.
Procedural
 
On June 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging
causes of action for (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (2)
sexual battery, (3) gender violence, (4) negligence, (5) negligent supervision,
(6) negligent hiring/retention, and (7) negligent failure to warn, train, or
educate. On August 23, 2022, four of the defendants, the Hospital, HCA
California, HCA Tennessee (together with the Hospital and HCA California, the
“Corporate Defendants”), and Sachdeva, demurred to the Complaint and moved to
strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. On October 10, 2022, this court
sustained the demurrer, without leave to amend, as to Plaintiff’s fifth, sixth,
and seventh causes of action and sustained the demurrer, with leave to amend,
as to Plaintiff’s first and fourth causes of action as to the Corporate Defendants.
This court found the motion to strike as to the Corporate Defendants thereby
mooted. This court overruled the demurrer and denied the motion to strike as to
Sachdeva.
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint (the “First Amended
Complaint” or the “FAC”) alleging causes of action for (1) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (2) sexual battery, (3) gender violence, (4)
negligence, and (5) sexual harassment. 
 
On July 10, 2023, the Corporate Defendants filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) to the FAC with a motion to strike (the “Motion to Strike”). On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to the
Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. On January 29, 2024, the Corporate
Defendants replied to Plaintiff’s Oppositions.
 
II. MOVING
PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR
THE DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
            
The Corporate Defendants demur to the first and fourth causes of action on
the grounds they are barred by the statute of limitations.  Corporate Defendants demur to the fifth cause
of action for failure to allege facts sufficient to support the cause of action.
The Court notes Corporate Defendants accordingly demur to all causes of action
asserted against them, as the second and third causes of action are asserted
against Sachdeva only. 
 
The Corporate Defendants move to strike the punitive damages as they are
sought against the Corporate Defendants, HCA Healthcare, and C/HCA, Inc.
            
III. ANALYSIS 
 
The
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the
plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
A. Statute
of Limitations as to the First and Fourth Causes of Action 
 
Parties disagree as to what statute of
limitations applies to the FAC’s first and fourth causes of action. The
Corporate Defendants argue that because they are healthcare providers and
Plaintiff’s injury arose “out of medical services” they were providing her, then
the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 (“MICRA”) applies, including
its Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 340.5, which applies “[i]n an action for injury or
death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged
professional negligence,” sets the statute of limitations at “three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered the injury, whichever occurs
first.” The Corporate Defendants observe that Plaintiff admits to having
immediately known of her injury and they therefore further argue that her first
and fourth causes of action were therefore barred one year after her injury’s
occurrence. Plaintiff counters that her injury did not arise from the Corporate
Defendants’ professional negligence or medical malpractice as healthcare
providers but rather out of their general negligence as employers and
maintainers of the hospital premises and therefore that her claims are not
barred by MICRA’s Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 340.5.
 
Plaintiff filed her suit against the Defendants
on June 10, 2022, just under two years after her injuries on July 18–19, 2020. The
Corporate Defendants argue that the filing of the FAC just under three years
after Plaintiff’s injuries sets the timing of Plaintiff’s claims for statute of
limitations purposes, but this is not correct. (Demurrer p. 7.) “An amended
complaint is considered a new action for purposes of the statute of limitations
only if the claims do not ‘relate back’ to an earlier, timely-filed complaint. Under
the relation-back doctrine, an amendment relates back to the original complaint
if the amendment: (1) rests on the same general set of facts; (2) involves
the same injury; and (3) refers to the same instrumentality.” (Pointe San
Diego Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Corp, Hargreaves & Savitch,
LLP et al. (2011) 195 Cal.Appt4th 265, 276. (citing Norgart v. Upjohn
Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 408–09).) Because the FAC’s first and fourth
causes of action “relate back” to the Complaint, Plaintiff’s initial filing of
the Complaint set the timing of her claims for statute of limitations purposes.
So, if Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 340.5 governs her claims, then the first and
fourth causes of action are barred by its one-year statute of limitations. If,
however, Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 340.5 does not apply, then her claims are
governed by the two-year statute of limitations for general negligence set out
in Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 335.1 and are timely. 
 
“It is settled that additional causes of action
may arise out of the same facts as a medical malpractice action that do not
trigger MICRA.” (Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of University of California
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 352.) “[W]hen a cause of action is asserted against
a health care provider on a legal theory other than medical malpractice, the
courts must determine whether it is nevertheless based on the ‘professional
negligence’ of the health care provider so as to trigger MICRA.” (Smith v.
Ben Bennett, Inc. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1507, 1514.) “A ‘health care
provider’ is any person licensed to provide health care services including a
health facility. ‘Professional negligence’ means a negligent act
or omission to act by a health care provider in the rendering of professional
services, which act or omission is the proximate cause of a personal injury or wrongful
death, provided that such services are within the scope of services for which
the provider is licensed and which are not within any restriction imposed by
the licensing agency or licensed hospital.” (Samantha B. v. Aurora
Vista Del Mar, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 85, 96 (quoting Cal. C. Civ. Pro.
§ 340.5(1–2)).) Thus, “professional negligence” as used in Cal. C. Civ.
Pro. § 340.5 does not broadly cover “all conduct directly related to the
rendition of professional services.” (Benun v. Superior Court (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 113, 121.) Notably, “MICRA statute of limitations provisions that
apply to professional negligence actions against health care
providers do not apply to intentional tort claims.” (David M.
v. Beverly Hospital (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1278.) 
 
Thus, whether MICRA applies turns on whether “the
plaintiffs based their intentional tort claims on intentional misconduct
[or on] professional negligence.” (Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs,
Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 348–49.) In Larson v. UHS of Rancho
Springs, Inc., the court distinguishes between intentional torts conducted
in the “render[ing] of professional healthcare services” and “intentional torts
committed for an ulterior purpose” or “some collateral course of conduct
pursued for [the defendant’s] own gain or gratification” (Id. at
351–52.) In Perry v. Shaw, MICRA did not apply to claims arising from a
cosmetic surgery done without the patient-plaintiff’s consent because the
plaintiff “alleged a battery based on a deliberate decision to ignore the scope
of the plaintiff's consent, not a negligent failure” by the physician-defendant. (Perry
v. Shaw (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 658, 663–64, 668.) In Delaney v. Baker,
MICRA did not apply to claims arising from the abuse of seniors by a nursing
home facility and its providers because the Elder Abuse Act provides distinct
remedies for willful neglect of seniors so that “neglect” was not merely a
product of negligence but rather a willful failure to carry out one’s
professional responsibilities. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23,
33–35.) This included the plaintiff’s claims against the nursing home facility
that were based on the facility’s ordinary negligence. (Ibid.) By
contrast, in David M. v. Beverly Hospital, the plaintiff’s negligence
causes of action arising from a hospital’s failure to report a minor patient’s
physical abuse was barred by the statute of limitations because “claims for
medical malpractice based on ordinary negligence” are subject to MICRA, though
the court did note that such would not have been the case “had plaintiff
alleged…intentional[] conceal[ment of] his failure to report or []
intentional[] fail[ure] to report known or suspected abuse.” (David M. v. Beverly Hospital, supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at 1278,
1281.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from the
intentional sexual battery committed against her by an employee of the
Corporate Defendants, and MICRA therefore does not apply. Plaintiff’s sexual
battery had no possible relationship to the rendering of the professional
healthcare services for which Plaintiff presented to the hospital but rather
was a “collateral course of conduct” pursued for an “ulterior purpose.” Just as
the wrongfully done cosmetic surgery of Perry v. Shaw was not subject to
MICRA, here, Plaintiff’s claims arise from a battery well outside the scope of
her consent, which was deliberately ignored, and are consequently similarly not
subject to MICRA. The conduct of an intentional battery, even when done in a
medical setting by a medical professional, removes Plaintiff’s claims from
MICRA’s scope. Additionally, like in Delaney v. Baker, MICRA does not
apply to the Corporate Defendants’ ordinary negligence in preventing the
intentional torts of its employees. Unlike in David M. v. Beverly Hospital,
where the plaintiff alleged negligence by the defendants because they failed
their duty to report abuse of a minor patient, a duty which they bore as
healthcare providers; here, Plaintiff does not allege that the Corporate
Defendants’ duties to her arose from their statuses as healthcare providers.
Rather, she alleges negligence by the Corporate Defendants for their failures
to protect her as employers of Sachdeva and as the providers of the hospital
facilities. Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that the Corporate Defendants
intentionally concealed Sachdeva’s actions, which, following Delaney v.
Baker and David M. v. Beverly Hospital, further indicates that MICRA
is not appropriately applied here.  
 
The Corporate Defendants state that this court
“has previously held that all claims based upon Negligence are time-barred,”
but this misstates this court’s prior ruling. This court held that, following So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, all causes of action based on the “negligently
hiring, supervising, training and retaining” Sachdeva are barred by MICRA’s
Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 340.5.
 
Thus, because Plaintiff’s claims are timely brought within Cal. C. Civ. Pro. § 335.1’s two-year
statute of limitations, this court OVERRULES the demurrer to the first and
fourth causes of action.
 
B. Failure
to State Sufficient Facts as to the Fifth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiff added a new cause of action to the FAC for sexual harassment pursuant
to Cal. Civ. C. § 51.9 against all Defendants. Plaintiff asserts that the
Corporate Defendants are vicariously liable for Sachdeva’s actions, alleging
that Sachdeva sexually harassed her under the supervision of the Corporate
Defendants and that the Corporate Defendants are equally liable therefor because
they ratified Sachdeva’s wrongful actions. The Corporate Defendants now demur
to this cause of action on the grounds that it is “vague, unintelligible, and
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a separate cause of action”
against the Corporate Defendants.
 
The parties cite C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp., which holds in part
that the corporate owners of a medical facility can be vicariously liable for
the sexually harassing actions of its employees under Cal. Civ. C. § 51.9
under a respondeat superior theory where there is evidence that the corporate
owners ratified the employee’s actions. (C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009)
169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1106–10.) The court in C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp.
describes a medical employer’s failure to “investigate or respond to charges
that an employee committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery” as
an example of where ratification is “generally applied.” (Id. at 1110
(quoting Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151, 169–70).) In
that case, the court found that the corporate owners of a medical center
ratified the repeated sexually harassing actions of a nurse assistant employee
because an agency relationship existed between the owners and the employee, the
employee’s supervisors knew of but failed to respond to or “hid” his repeated actions
over the course of a couple years and maintained his employment, and the owners
“intentionally or negligently spoiled evidence including documents concerning
other sexual assaults.” (Id. at 1112 (internal quote marks removed).)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that an agency relationship existed between the
Corporate Defendants and Sachdeva and thus it would be possible for the
Corporate Defendants to have sexually harassed her by ratifying Sachdeva’s
sexual harassment of her, but Plaintiff fails to plead facts sufficient to show
that they actually did so. Unlike the defendants in C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare
Corp., there are no allegations that Corporate Defendants allowed or covered
up repeated sexual abuses by an employee over years, but rather, Plaintiff
alleges Corporate Defendants responded with an internal investigation and noted
her safety concerns in her medical record. Plaintiff’s allegation that the
Corporate Defendants’ investigation report contained incorrect information is
not sufficient to show that the Corporate Defendants spoiled evidence or
attempted to hide Sachdeva’s actions.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS Corporate Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth
cause of action, with leave to amend.
 
The Motion
to Strike
 
Corporate Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages. Specifically, Corporate Defendants move to strike references to
Corporate Defendants in Plaintiff’s references to her request for punitive
damages set forth in: (1) the Statement of Facts; and (2) the first, fourth,
and fifth causes of action.  (Notice of
Motion to Strike, p. 2; FAC ¶¶ 22, 42, 86, 99.) The Court notes the
request for punitive and exemplary damages set forth in paragraph 6 of the
Prayer for Relief is not included in Corporate Defendants Notice of Motion;
however, given Corporate Defendants move to strike all supporting allegations
for punitive damages, the Court considers it as included. 
 
In light of the Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer as to the fifth
cause of action with leave to amend, Corporate Defendants’ motion to strike
punitive damages set forth in Paragraph 99 is denied as moot. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion
to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or
has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive
damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
The Corporate Defendants rely on Cal. Civ. Pro. § 425.13(a), which
prohibits the inclusion of punitive damages in “an action for damages arising
out of the professional negligence of a health care provider” without prior
leave of the court. Intentional torts may be covered by Cal. Civ. Pro.
§ 425.13(a) if the nature and cause of the plaintiff’s injury are each
“directly related to the manner in which professional services were provided.”
(Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic Inc. v. Superior Court (1992)
3 Cal.4th 181, 192.) Thus, “a cause of action against a health care provider
for sexual battery would not, in most instances, fall within the statute
because the defendant's conduct would not be directly related to the manner in
which professional services were rendered.” (Ibid.) 
 
“Plaintiffs must do more than merely rely on the unsubstantiated
allegations in their complaints before they may proceed with a punitive damage
claim against a health care provider.” (United Western Medical Centers v.
Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 500, 503–04.) “[A] plaintiff must make
an evidentiary showing of a ‘substantial probability’ of prevailing on a
punitive damage claim before such a claim may be included in the pleading.” (Id.
at 503.) In other words, a plaintiff bears the burden of “both stat[ing] and
substantiat[ing] a legitimate, triable punitive damages claim” by demonstrating
possession of “competent, admissible evidence,” such as an affidavit, to
overcome Cal. Civ. Pro. § 425.13(a). (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 709, 719.)
 
The Corporate Defendants cite United Western Medical Centers v. Superior
Court as an example of Cal. Civ. Pro. § 425.13(a)’s application in the
health care context “to protect employers of individuals who are accused of
committing [sexual] assault or battery against a patient.” (Motion to Strike p.
5.) The court in United Western Medical Centers v. Superior Court finds
the plaintiff in that case barred from seeking punitive damages from the
employers because her claim against them was limited to the contention that
they “either negligently or intentionally failed to supervise its staff, or
hired incompetent staff and thereby allowed real party to be sexually assaulted,”
and these actions or inactions related to medical staff are “directly related
to its performance of professional services.” (Supra, at 505.) That
plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages against the individuals who sexually
assaulted her, however, were not barred. (Ibid.) Additionally, in College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court, the court similarly found that Cal. Civ.
Pro. § 425.13(a) barred the plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages
against the corporate defendants who owned medical facilities based on the
tortious conduct of their employee. (Supra, at 727). Although the
plaintiff in that case alleged that the corporate defendants “knew or should
have known” about and therefore “approved or tolerated [the employee’s wrongful
actions] by failing to adequately investigate the matter or discipline [the
employee],” it held that “[c]orporate ratification in the punitive damages
context requires actual knowledge of the conduct and its outrageous nature.” (Id.
at 724–26.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages against the Corporate
Defendants are barred by Cal. Civ. Pro. § 425.13(a) on the face of the
pleadings. Although Plaintiff’s claims against the Corporate Defendants are no
longer based on their failure to supervise or train Sachdeva but rather on
their failure to provide a safe environment at the hospital facilities for
Plaintiff’s recovery and for ratifying Sachdeva’s actions, these actions or
inactions, in the punitive damages context, are still directly related to the
provision of medical services. Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged additional facts
to support her punitive damages claim.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED AS
MOOT as to the fifth cause of action and GRANTED as to the remaining requests
for punitive damages. 
 
 
[TENTATIVE RULING:]
 
Demurrer as to the first and fourth causes of action is overruled. Demurrer
as to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike is granted, except as to the fifth cause of action, which
it is denied as moot.
 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
February 5, 2024                                             Los Angeles County
Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 
 