  Case Number:  22VECV02454    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




THOVMAS
  GABRIELIAN,
Plaintiff.
 
v.
 
MERCEDES-BENZ
  U.S.A., LLC
Defendant.


 
   Case Number             Department
22VECV02454                                   107




COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
[TENTATIVE RULING:] 
 
The Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings as to the first cause of action (breach of express warranty) is
GRANTED with 15 days’ leave to amend.
 
The
Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings as to the second cause of action (breach of implied warranty) is DENIED.


 

 
Background
 
This case is a lemon law action filed by Plaintiff
Thovmas Gabrielian against Defendant Mercedes-Benz U.S.A., LLC (“MBUSA”). On
April 27, 2021, Plaintiff leased a 2021 Mercedes-Benz GLE63 (the “Subject
Vehicle”) manufactured by MBUSA pursuant to a motor vehicle lease agreement
(the “MVLA”).  The MVLA identifies
Plaintiff as the Subject Vehicle’s lessee and Keyes European as the lessor. 
 
Plaintiff pleads those defects and non-conformities
to warranty manifested themselves in the Subject Vehicle during the applicable
warranty period, including malfunctions relating to a defective battery, the
check engine light coming on, and a malfunctioning sunroof.  Plaintiff pleads he delivered the Subject
Vehicle to Keyes European for repairs, but Keyes European was unable to conform
the Subject Vehicle to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable
number of repair attempts.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 8-13.) 
 
On December 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed his complaint
against MBUSA, alleging breach of express and implied warranties under the
Song-Beverly Act. On March 15, 2018, Defendant filed an Answer. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings. 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.

 
On January 29, 2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Motion
 
Defendant argues that the entire Complaint is
uncertain, vague, and ambiguous because the Complaint states conclusory
language such as the vehicle
“exhibited defects, nonconformities, maladjustments, or malfunctions relating
to [sic] defective battery; check engine light coming on; noise in vehicle; and
malfunction sunroof.” (Mot. for Judg.
on the Pleadings p.3; Complaint ¶ 10 (a).) Moreover, Defendant provides other
instances of the conclusory allegations and fails to state facts sufficient for
a cause of action. (Not. for Mot. p.1; Mot. for Judg. on the Pleadings p.1-2.)
Lastly, Defendant requests that the leave to amend be denied. (Mot. for Judg.
on the Pleadings p.4.)
 
Opposition
 
Plaintiff argues that the pleadings adequately pled that Defendant failed to
replace or repurchase after a reasonable number of repair attempts which is the
only required pleading for a Song-Beverly cause of action. (Opp. p.4.) Plaintiff argues that this motion raises
issues that Defendant waived by failing to file a special demurrer because
Defendant waited a year to raise the issue and no more specificity or
particularity is needed. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff further states that precedent case law for
this type of cause of action was pled in the same way because a consumer does
not need to know the cause of the defect. (Id. at p.5.) However,
Plaintiff failed to provide any case law to support this statement. Plaintiff
also argues that the Court cannot consider extrinsic evidence in granting this
motion because it is not a motion for summary judgment. (Id. at p.6-8.)
 
Reply
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly
claims fail as a matter of law because they are inadequately pled. (Reply p.1.)
Specifically, Defendant states that Plaintiff fails to provide when the subject
vehicle was taken to the authorized dealership for repairs, the alleged issues,
how MBUSA failed to conform with the express warranty, and which service visits
was the subject vehicle allegedly in repair for 30 days or more (if any). (Id.)

 
Additionally, Defendant argues that it did not waive
any of its rights to challenge Plaintiff’s claims because of California Code of
Civil Procedure §430.80 (a) and §438. (Id. at p.1-2.) Specifically,
these codes of civil procedure, provide relief to Defendants when a pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Id. at
2-3.) Defendant also cites to its July 27, 2023, Answer which contained the
affirmative defense regarding the Complaint having insufficient facts to state
a cause of action. (Reply p.3.)
 
Legal
Standard 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 438 states,
in relevant part: “(b)(1) A party may move for judgment on the pleadings.
. . . (c)(1) The motion provided for in this section may only be made on
one of the following grounds: . . . . (B) If the moving party is a
defendant, that either of the following conditions
exist: (i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the complaint. (ii) The complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (emphasis
added.)
 
A motion for judgment
on the pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general
demurrer.” (Smiley v. Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 138, 146 (citation omitted).) “[T]he trial court generally
confines itself to the complaint and accepts as true all material facts
alleged therein.  As appropriate, however, it may extend its
consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In
this, it performs essentially the same task that it would undertake in ruling
on a general demurrer.”  (Id. (citations omitted).) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
A party moving for
judgment on the pleadings must meet and confer in person or telephonically with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to determine if
an agreement can be reached regarding the claims raised in the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 439, subd. (a).)  The moving party must file a declaration
detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 439, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
Here, the parties met and conferred via email and
were unable to resolve the issues. (Dec. Cowden ¶ 2.) Thus, the meet and confer
requirement was satisfied. 
 
Discussion

 
Waiver
of Issues 
 
            Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant
waived its rights to raise these issues in a motion for judgment on the
pleadings because it did not file a special demurrer, is immaterial because California Code of Civil Procedure § 438 allows this motion for
a failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Here, Defendant
is seeking the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings because it claims that the
Complaint in its entirety fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any
cause of action. Therefore, the Court will analyze the motion on its merits
below. 
 
Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings 
 
Defendant
moves for a judgment on the pleadings because the entire Complaint is based on
uncertainty, vagueness, and ambiguity. (Mot. for Judg. on Pleadings p.2.)
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff failed to state facts sufficient to state
a cause of action because of conclusory allegations. (Id.) The Complaint
alleges (1) breach of express warranty under the Song-Beverly Act and (2)
breach of implied warranty obligations under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
A. First Cause of Action – Breach
of Express Warranty 
 
A plaintiff pursuing an action under the Act has the
burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a nonconformity covered by the express
warranty that substantially impaired the use, value or safety of the vehicle
(the nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was presented to an authorized
representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle for repair (the presentation
element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative did not repair the
nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts (the failure to
repair element). (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101 [109 Cal.Rptr.2d 583].)
 
Here,
the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient for this cause of action because
of the conclusory allegations. For instance, the Complaint alleges that “[Plaintiff]
returned the SUBJECT VEHICLE to DEALER for repairs under the warranties
referenced above because it exhibited defects, nonconformities, maladjustments,
or malfunctions relating to [sic] defective battery; check engine light coming
on; noise in vehicle; and malfunction sunroof.” (Complaint, ¶ 10(a).)
Plaintiff’s Complaint further alleges, “… the Subject Vehicle exhibited further
and additional defects, nonconformities, maladjustments, or malfunctions in the
same components or systems.” (Complaint, ¶ 10(b).) Plaintiff’s Complaint then
states Defendant “…failed to make the Subject Vehicle conform to the applicable
warranties, despite a reasonable number of attempts to do so.” (Complaint ¶
12(b).) Additionally, the Complaint states that “[t]he actions of Defendants,
and each of them, in failing to perform the proper repairs, parts replacements,
and/or adjustments to make the SUBJECT VEHICLE conform to the applicable
express warranties constitute a breach of the express warranties that MANUFACTURER
provided to [Plaintiff], thereby breaching Defendants’ obligations under the
ACT.” (Complaint ¶ 15.) These allegations are insufficient because they are
conclusory and fail to provide any detail as to when the vehicle was presented
to the authorized dealer or how many attempts were made to fix the issues. 
 
Thus,
the Court grants the judgment on the pleadings for this cause of action with
leave to amend. 
 
B. Second Cause of Action – Breach
of Implied Warranty  
 
“The implied warranty of
merchantability may be breached by a latent defect undiscoverable at the time
of sale.” (Mexia, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 1304.) “To state a claim for breach of
implied warranty under California law, a consumer must demonstrate that the
good is not “fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are used.” Cal.
Com. Code § 2314(2)(c). Additionally, the Song-Beverly Act provides that “every
sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state shall be
accompanied by the manufacturer's and the retail seller's implied warranty that
the goods are merchantable.” Cal. Civ. Code § 1792. A plaintiff claiming breach
of an implied warranty of merchantability must show that the product “did not
possess even the most basic degree of fitness for ordinary use.” Asghari v.
Volkswagen Grp. of Am., Inc., 42 F. Supp. 3d 1306, 1338 (C.D. Cal. 2013)
(citations omitted). “The basic inquiry, therefore, is whether the vehicle was
fit for driving.” [citation omitted.] (Franco v. Ford Motor Co., 644 F.
Supp. 3d 672, 682.)
 
            Here,
the Complaint states facts sufficient for this cause of action because an
implied warranty requires a showing that the new vehicle had a latent defect. Plaintiff alleges that on April 27, 2021,
he leased a new 2021 Mercedes-Benz GLE63 AMG 4 (VIN: 4JGFD8KB7MA379098) that came with a “new car
warranty.” (Complaint ¶¶ 5-7.) The new car warranty “warranted to perform any
repairs or replacement of parts necessary to ensure that the SUBJECT VEHICLE
and the components therein were free from all defects in material and
workmanship, and to perform any adjustments necessary to maintain the utility
of the SUBJECT VEHICLE and the parts, components, and various electrical and/or
mechanical systems contained therein.” (Complaint ¶¶ 8, 27.) The Complaint
further alleges that “[Plaintiff] returned the SUBJECT VEHICLE to DEALER for
repairs under the warranties referenced above because it exhibited defects,
nonconformities, maladjustments, or malfunctions relating to [sic] defective
battery; check engine light coming on; noise in vehicle; and malfunction
sunroof.” (Complaint, ¶ 10(a).)
 
The Franco v. Ford Motor Co. case is
instructive. In Franco, defendant Ford moved to dismiss the breach of
implied warranty claims under the California Commercial Code and the
Song-Beverly Act. The “gravamen of Plaintiffs' complaint is that the exhaust
manifolds in Class Vehicles have a propensity to fail prematurely, exposing
occupants to toxic fumes and impairing vehicle performance.” (Franco v. Ford
Motor Co. (C.D.Cal. 2022) 644 F. Supp. 3d 672, 677.) The court
dismissed the claim because “crucially, Plaintiffs do not allege that they have
observed or experienced any issues with their exhaust manifolds, or that the
alleged defect impaired the use of their vehicles in any way. See Tae Hee
Lee v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., 992 F. Supp. 2d 962, 980 (C.D.
Cal. 2014) (“Plaintiffs have not alleged that they stopped using their
vehicles.”).” (Franco v. Ford Motor Co., 644 F. Supp. 3d 672, 683 (C.D.
Cal. 2022).) Unlike the plaintiffs in Franco, here, among a
malfunctioning sunroof and noises the Plaintiff provides that there was a
“defective battery” and “the check engine light” which shows that the vehicle
was not fit for driving. 
 
Thus,
the Court denies the judgment on the pleadings for this cause of action.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the first cause of action (breach of
express warranty) is GRANTED with 15
days’ leave to amend.
 
The
Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings as to the second cause of action (breach of implied warranty) is DENIED.

 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
February 5, 2024                                             Los Angeles County
Superior Court
 