 Case Number:  23VECV01523    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




MARIBEL
  GREENIDGE,
 
Plaintiff.
 
v.
 
ALFRED
  IGBOKWE OBICHUKWU, et al.
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
23VECV01523                       107




COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion for Stay of
  Proceedings



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
[TENTATIVE RULING:] 
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion for a Stay of Proceedings pending outcome of People
of the State of California v. Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu, case no. LA096033
(Cal. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 21, 2021). 
 
 
Background
 
On August 28, 2021, Plaintiff Maribel Greenidge (“Plaintiff”) and Alfred
Igbokwe Obichukwu (“Defendant”) were involved in a motor vehicle collision.
Plaintiff alleges she suffered property damage and bodily injuries as a result
of the accident. Plaintiff further alleges that immediately after the motor
vehicle collision described above, Defendant Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu
approached and assaulted her. Plaintiff then alleges Defendant proceeded to
inflict intentional and highly offensive and inappropriate touching, sexually
offensive contact, and unreasonable physical force on Plaintiff’s person.
 
Defendant was later charged with sexual penetration by use of force in
violation of California Penal Code section 289(a)(1)(A), a felony, in case People
of the State of California v. Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu, case no. LA096033
(Cal. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 21, 2021) as a result of the same incident on
August 28, 2021. Defendant has pled not guilty and was released on bail. This
criminal case is still pending.
 
On April 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant personal injury action
alleging (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) assault, (3) battery, (4) sexual
battery, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6) negligent
infliction of emotional distress.
 
On January 10, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion for a Stay of Proceedings.

 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
 
On January 25, 2024, Defendant filed his reply. 
 
Moving Party 
 
Defendant argues that the stay should be granted because he has a right
against self-incrimination as he is a defendant in two separate cases arising
out of the same incident. (Mot. for Stay of Proceedings p.4.) Additionally,
defendant argues that the parties will not be prejudiced if this motion is
granted because the stay would still allow the case to be ready for trial in
the summer of 2024. (Id. at p.5.)
 
Opposition
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not met his
burden to stay proceedings because she would be highly prejudiced by the delay,
as she will not be able to gain closure and he has already delayed the
proceedings. (Opp. p.4-5.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues that the burden that the
civil case may impose on the criminal proceedings is nonexistent, because the Defendant
can still exercise his right to plead the 5th amendment in both criminal and
civil cases. (Id. at p.5.) Next, Plaintiff argues that denial of the
stay promotes the convenience of the court. (Id.) Also, Plaintiff
continues to seek and receive treatment stop so both lien providers and health
insurance parties who are not parties to the civil litigation would be unfairly
prejudiced by this stay. (Id.) Lastly, Defendant has already had more
than ten preliminary setting/resetting hearings which prevents the public from
finding a resolution in this case. (Id. at p.6.)
 
Reply
Defendant reiterates the same points about his
rights against self-incrimination. (Reply p.2-3.) Defendants also argues that
the prejudice to him clearly outweighs Plaintiffs’ prejudice because her time
delay is not the same as his criminal liability and should therefore be
granted. (Id.)
 
Legal Standard 
 
When considering whether to grant a motion to stay proceedings pending the
outcome of a related criminal case, the trial court shall use its discretion to
“assess and balance the nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on
either side.”  (People v. Coleman (1975) 13 Cal.3d 867, 885 (Coleman),
quoting Gordon v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. (D.D.C. 1970) 427 F.2d 578,
580 (Gordon).)  Factors which the trial court should consider
include: “(1) the interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with
this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to
plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the
proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the
management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the
interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest
of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.”  (Avant!
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885 (Avant!),
quoting Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d
322, 324-325 (Keating).)
 
Discussion
 
(1) Interest of the Plaintiffs in Proceeding Expeditiously with this
Litigation or Any Particular Aspect of It, and the Potential Prejudice to
Plaintiffs of a Delay
            
Here, the Plaintiff sets forth no evidence that she stands to suffer actual
prejudice in the event of a stay. (Opp. p.6.) Plaintiff only emphasized her
preference that this litigation proceed expeditiously because Defendant has
previously delayed the trial and she seek closure. (Id.) This alone,
without more, is insufficient.
 
(2) Burden which Any Particular Aspect of the Proceedings May Impose on
Defendants
            
Here, both the criminal and civil cases arose from the same motor vehicle
collision. (Dec. McFarlane ¶¶ 6-13.) Since the civil case includes causes
action for (2) assault, (3) battery, (4) sexual battery, (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress
it is likely that discovery questions may be used against Defendant in the
criminal case. Thus, Defendant would be burdened by the discovery and would
potentially self-incriminate himself in the criminal trial.  
 
(3) Convenience of the Court in the Management of its Cases, and the
Efficient Use of Judicial Resources
            
Here, the efficient use of judicial resources would be to stay the trial
because Defendant would bring additional motions by not complying with the
discovery requests. For instance, Defendant states that he “would be forced to
object to each and every question or discovery request by the Plaintiff or the
co-defendants individually, wait for these parties to file motions to compel
answers to each question or discovery request, oppose those motions, and force the
court to rule on each motion.” (Reply p.3.) Thus, it would be more efficient to
stay the proceedings. 
 
(4) Interests of Persons Not Parties to the Civil Litigation & (5)
Interest of the Public In The Pending Civil and Criminal Litigation. 
Although Plaintiff argues that the public, lien providers, and healthcare
providers would be unfairly prejudiced by the delay in resolution. (Opp. p.6.)
Nevertheless, the Court finds no relevant interests which factor into its
analysis of the stay motion in this case.
 
Ultimately, after assessing and balancing the
nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on either side, the Court
finds that the relevant factors weigh in favor of granting a stay.  (See Keating, supra, 45 F.3d at pp.
324-325.)  Defendant’s motion for a stay
of this entire proceeding will be granted as to the trial date and as to all
discovery related to Defendant’s alleged criminal conduct for which he is being
prosecuted in People of the State of California v. Alfred Igbokwe
Obichukwu, case no. LA096033 (Cal. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 21,
2021). The Court intends for the stay
to bar Defendant’s discovery in the instant matter.
 
Conclusion
 
Thus, the Court agrees with Defendant that it
would be an imposition upon the Court to try this civil case during the
pendency of the criminal proceeding as doing so would be plagued with
difficulties involving Defendant’s Fifth Amendment Privilege against
self-incrimination because both cases relate to the same incident. As such,
this Court has discretion to stay this proceeding as against Defendant pending
a resolution of the federal criminal case against him. (See Klein v.
Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 894, 905.)
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the Motion for a Stay of Proceedings pending
outcome of People of the State of California v. Alfred Igbokwe Obichukwu,
case no. LA096033 (Cal. Super. Ct. filed Dec. 21, 2021). 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
February 5, 2024                                             Los Angeles County
Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 