  Case Number:  22STCV03142    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/30/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03142 JIMMY MARTELL vs
ZENESYS LOGISTICS, INC. et al. 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Bo Wu 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant
Bo Wu with Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One. Defendant’s responses
were due by May 13, 2024; however, no responses have been provided by the
statutory due date. 
 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff sent an email to
Defendant, giving him an opportunity to provide responses without objections by
June 24, 2024. As of June 28, 2024, the date on which the present motions were
filed, Defendant failed to provide the discovery responses at issue. Plaintiff
now moves the court to compel initial responses. 
 
Defendant filed an opposition. Defendant does
not contend that discovery responses have been provided or will be provided
prior to the hearing. Defendant argues that sanctions should not be imposed
against Defendant’s counsel as they have tried to have Defendant participate in
litigation. However, Defendant was adamant about not participating, even after
being advised of the consequences for failure to participate in his native
language. (Decl. of Ji). Defendant's counsel contends he has made extensive efforts
to engage Wu, including communication through mail, phone calls, hiring an
investigator, and even involving Wu's son to explain the importance of
participating in the litigation. Despite these efforts, Wu maintains that the
other defendant should be the sole party defending the action and refuses to
participate. The court finds Defendant’s counsel to have acted with substantial
justification, and sanctions will not be imposed against Defendant’s counsel. 
 
The Court disagrees that sanctions should not
be imposed against Defendant Wu because he is not purposefully evading the
responses, does not speak English, or is an otherwise unsophisticated litigant.
It is well settled that a Pro Per litigant is “to be treated like any other
party and is entitled to the same, but no greater consideration than other
litigants and attorneys. [Citation.]” [Citation.] Thus, as is the case with attorneys,
[self-represented] litigants must follow correct rules of procedure.
[Citations.]” (Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1246–1247; Stebley
v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 522, 524, [“Although
plaintiffs appear in this court without counsel, that does not entitle them to
special treatment”]). Although Defendant Wu is not a pro per litigant as he is
represented by counsel, the same reasoning applies. Just because Wu is
unsophisticated, it does not entitle him to special treatment or greater
consideration from the court. Moreover, Defendant has been advised of the
consequence of not participating in litigation numerous times and through
various means.  Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has been
purposefully refusing to participate in litigation and evading discovery.
Moreover, and in any event, sanctions are intended to compensate Plaintiff’s
attorney for the time and effort expended to file the present motions to seek
compliance.
 
Thus, the contents of Plaintiff’s Requests for
Admissions, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted against Defendant Wu. Further,
sanctions are mandatory as the Court does not find Defendant to have acted with
substantial justification. Although Plaintiff requested sanctions in the amount
of $1,110 per motion, due to the simplicity of the issues, the Court reduces
the sanctions to $500 for the present motion. Consequently, the Court orders
Defendant Wu to pay $500 in sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of today’s
date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 