 Case Number:  22STCV29169    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE
Hearing Date: 7/30/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29169
KARINA C. ORTEGA, as the
representative of the ESTATE OF LUIS MANUEL ORTEGA ALMANZA v. MICHELIN NORTH
AMERICA INC.; GENERAL MOTORS; WIN CHEVROLET, INC.; COURTESY CHEVROLET CENTER
Moving Party: Defendant
General Motors LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs 
Notice: MOTION TO TRANSFER
VENUE IS DENIED
 
Background 
 
On September 07, 2023, Plaintiff Karina C. Ortega,
individually and on behalf of other named plaintiffs, filed this wrongful death
complaint at the Superior Court of Los Angeles against Defendants Michelin
North America Inc., General Motors LLC (“GM”), Win Chevrolet Inc. (“Win”) and
Courtesy Chevrolet Center for manufacturing and
design defects and negligence.  
                                      
On June 24, 2024, GM filed a motion to transfer this matter
to the Superior Court of California, Riverside pursuant to CCP § 397(c),
arguing that Riverside County is the proper venue because the accident and
subsequent investigation occurred in Blythe, County of Riverside. Further,
Defendant states that all the critical witness such as CHP officers, Deputy
Sheriff, paramedics, and forensic examiners are residents of Blythe and/or
Riverside County, which is approximately 200 miles from Los Angeles County;
therefore, litigating this matter in Los Angeles County would impose an unfair
burden on the parties.
 
On July 5, 2024, Defendant Win, the only defendant
connected to Los Angeles County, joined in the motion.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on July 18, 2024, arguing
this motion was premature and GM failed to meet its burden in any event. 
 
Legal Standard
 
In a personal injury case, the superior court in either the
county where the injury occurs or the county where defendants reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd.
(a).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 396b provides:
 
If an action or proceeding is
commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other
than the court designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this
title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced,
unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to
strike, or, at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to
strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files
with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring the action or
proceeding to the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the
adverse party, of a copy of those papers.  Upon the hearing of the motion
the court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not commenced
in the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred to the proper
court.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 396b,
subd. (a).) 
 
The court may change the place of trial when the
convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 397, subd. (c).)  The moving party has the burden of proving both
conditions in Section 397, subdivision (c).  (Ryez v. Superior Court of
San Francisco Cty. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 824, 836.)  “Before the convenience of
witnesses may be considered as a ground for an order granting a change of venue
it must be shown that their proposed testimony is admissible, relevant and
material to some issue in the case as shown by the record before the
court.  [Citation.]  The declaration or declarations supporting the
motion should set
forth the names of the witnesses, the nature of the testimony expected from
each, and the reasons why the attendance of each would be inconvenient.
[Citation.]”  (Id.
at 836, (citations and quotations omitted)).  “The convenience of witnesses
whose testimony will be merely cumulative is entitled to little consideration.”  (Corfee v. S. California
Edison Co. (1962)
202 Cal.App.2d 473, 477.)  Further, the court does not consider as a factor the
inconvenience of the parties to attend trial in deciding a motion to change
venue.  (Wrin
v. Ohlandt (1931) 213 Cal. 158, 160.)  
 
Analysis
 
A.  Timelines
 
Plaintiff contends that this motion is
premature because GM LLC has not yet filed an answer to the complaint. Until
the issues are joined, the court cannot determine which testimony will be
material. "For the same reason, a motion for change of venue cannot be
defeated on the grounds of convenience of witnesses until an answer is
filed." (Johnson v. Superior Court (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 212, 214.)
Defendant GM filed its answer on July 24, 2024; therefore, all defendants have
now filed their answers and it is appropriate for the court to make a
determination.
 
B.  Proper Venue
 
In the notice of motion, Defendant
argues that venue in Los Angeles County is improper but cites to CCP § 397(c),
which pertains to moving the court to change venue on the basis that the
convenience of witnesses and the promotion of justice would be served by such a
change. However, CCP § 397(a), which addresses changes in venue when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court, was never mentioned in the
motion. Furthermore, the moving papers focus solely on the convenience of
witnesses and how the ends of justice would be promoted, without arguing why
Los Angeles is an improper venue. 
 
In the reply, Defendant asks the Court
to disregard or assign little weight to Win Chevrolet’s “residence” for
purposes of determining proper venue, because the last time Win Chevrolet
serviced the Subject Vehicle was  six
years before the accident, the Subject Vehicle had 77, 327 miles placed on it,
was involved in two accidents, had several services performed on the car by
other vendors besides Win Chevrolet’s service.
 
These arguments were not put forth in
the moving papers but nonetheless the Court will make a ruling based on the
substance of the motion and therefore excuses this defect. Equally, the Court excuses
Plaintiff’s one-day late filing of the opposition.
 
In both the moving papers and the reply,
Defendant failed to provide any legal authority for the Court to disregard or
assign little weight to Win as a defendant for the purpose of venue.  In Minyard v. Superior Court, (1967) 248
Cal.App.2d 633, 634, defendants advanced a similar argument. In that case, the car
accident involved all individuals who were residents of Napa County, except for
defendant Yellow Cab Company. Defendant provided extensive, incontrovertible
and uncontested evidence that Yellow Cab Company operated solely within Napa
Valley. The court noted, "It was shown incontrovertibly that the plaintiff
could not prove that defendant Yellow Cab Company, a corporation, had anything
whatsoever to do with the accident upon which the action was based." (Id
at 637.)  Because there was no basis for
liability against Yellow Cab, 
 
This case is distinguishable from
Minyard. First, GM does not dispute that Win is a resident of Los Angeles;
second, GM does not dispute that Win performed service on Plaintiff’s car.
Although GM contends that due to the length of time, successive services, and
number of miles placed on the car, the services provided by Win bear no
relationship to the accident, this contention takes only a part of Plaintiffs’
allegations into account. In the complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Win is
liable for products liability by selling the defective tire that caused the
accident. (Complaint at para. 10.) GM argues that Plaintiff did not provide any
receipts to show that the tires were purchased from Win and Plaintiff’s wife’s
statement in the collision report stated the vehicle original tires were not
good anymore. However, for the Court to disregard Win and to essentially hold
it as a sham defendant who was joined only for the purposes of venue, it is
incumbent upon the moving party to produce incontrovertible evidence that Win did
not sell the tire at issue to Plaintiff. Pointing out that Plaintiff has not
produced evidence of purchase from Win at this early stage of litigation nor
does Plaintiff’s wife’s vague statement that the tires were no good anymore on
the collision report constitute incontrovertible evidence.
 
C.  Conditions for
motion to transfer venue 
 
a.  
Convenience of witnesses 
 
Defendant GM has argued that all the key
witnesses to the crash are currently in the County of Riverside; therefore, it
would be a major inconvenience to drive to Los Angeles because it would be a
four-to-five-hour drive. However, before a motion for transfer of venue can be
granted based on convenience of witnesses, it must be demonstrated that the
witnesses’ testimonies are admissible, relevant, and material to the case. The
supporting declarations should include the names of the witnesses, the nature
of their expected testimony, and the reasons for the inconvenience of their
attendance. (Code Civ. Proc. § 396b,
subd. (a).)
 
Defendant GM listed nine potential post-crash witnesses who
are all allegedly residents of Blythe, CA or the surrounding area. Moreover, GM
listed two percipient witnesses, Amy Jolene Doyle resident of Blythe, CA and
Jose Luis Salcedo resident of Quartzsite, AZ. GM failed to establish how any of
the post-crash witnesses are relevant or material to the case. GM failed to
demonstrate admissibility, relevance, and materiality of each witness to the
case. GM only pointed out which part of the police report shows how each post-crash
witness was involved in the case; however, GM did not establish how their
testimony would be needed or used at trial, especially since such testimony may
be cumulative. Further, GM did not submit declarations stating why testifying
in Los Angeles  would be inconvenient for
them.  While this may seem implicit simply
in relation to their residence, the Court cannot assume inconvenience. GM did provide
declarations for the fact witnesses. Ms. Doyle stated that one way drive from
Blythe to Los Angeles can exceed six hours or more depending on traffic and
that she would likely have to incur unnecessary hotel costs. Moreover, Mr.
Salcedo stated he is a resident of Quartzsite, AZ and the time and expense
associated with traveling to Riverside would be far less than traveling to Los
Angeles. While it is undisputed that it would be burdensome for fact witnesses
to travel to Los Angeles to testify, GM once again fails to establish how these
witnesses’ testimonies are material to the case. 
 
Because GM failed to show how each witnesses’ testimony
would be admissible and material to some issue on the case, this court cannot
consider convenience of witnesses as a ground for an order granting a change of
venue. 
 
Conclusion
 
The moving party, GM, failed to meet its
burden. Accordingly, the motion to transfer venue is denied without prejudice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 