 Case Number:  22STCV19288    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 7/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV19288 MARIA ANGELICA
AMARAL, et al. vs DOUGLAS JAMES WESTHOFF, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: COURT WILL HEAR ARGUMENT RE MOTION TO
CONTINUE TRIAL 
 
Legal Standard
Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿
The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there
was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC
Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for
the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.¿
(CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
Discussion
On May 13, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the instant action alleging injury from tripping and falling on
an uneven concrete surface at property owned or managed by Defendants.
Recently, on May 30, 2024, Defendants substituted their counsel due to
irreconcilable differences. The current trial date is set for September 19,
2024. Defendant moves the Court to continue the trial date to May 1, 2025.  Defendants request a continuance of the trial
as they have new counsel who recently substituted in and need additional time
to review discovery responses, develop a trial strategy, file a motion for
summary judgment, and conduct further discovery. 
Plaintiffs filed an
opposition stating that Defendants have already conducted extensive discovery
and are requesting a continuance solely to file a motion for summary judgment. 
Considerations to
address:
a.  
Substitution of counsel is done subject to
current dates;
b.  Extensive
discovery has occurred;
c.  
About 75 days remains before trial;
d.  A
nearly 10-month continuance of trial at this time appears to the Court to be
excessive.
 