 Case Number:  22STCV29393    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA
Hearing Date: 7/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29393 ROBERTO CORONA vs
COMPTON UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Compton Unified School
District
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH
SUBPOENA IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
On May 7, 2024,
Defendant personally served a Deposition Subpoena on witness Yair Morales for a
deposition scheduled for May 20, 2024. On May 13, 2024, Defendant spoke with
Yair Morales and confirmed his attendance for the scheduled deposition. Mr.
Morales did not object to his deposition. However, Morales failed to attend his
noticed deposition. Defendant then attempted to contact Mr. Morales via phone,
text, and email but received no responses. Defendant now moves the Court to
compel compliance with its subpoena.
Because the deponent is
a nonparty, there is a more stringent service and notice requirement. The
subpoena must be served personally pursuant to CCP § 2020.220. Under California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1346, a written notice and all moving papers supporting a
motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of
a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.
Although the subpoena
was personally served (Ex. 1.), the Court examined the proof of service for the
present motion, and it shows that the notice of motion and motion were served
via email and mail to Yair Morales. There is no indication that Morales agreed
to accept service by mail or electronic service. Thus, the present motion is
denied without prejudice.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 