 Case Number:  22STCV20170    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE AND MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION 
Hearing Date: 7/30/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV20170 ROBERT ROBINSON JR.
vs SINGH GOR & CHRIS, INC., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff Robert Robinson Jr. 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE IS DENIED; MOTION FOR
SUBSTITUTION IS
MOOT
 
Background
On June 21, 2022,
Plaintiff Robert Robinson, Jr. filed the instant case. At the time of filing,
Plaintiff was represented by Michael Domingo (“Domingo”) of the Law Office of
Jacob Eramni.  On June 21, 2022, the
Court scheduled a Final Status Conference for December 5, 2023, and trial for
December 19, 2023. Sometime in November 2022, Domingo ceased employment with
the Law Office of Jacob Eramni (“LOJE”). On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff did
not appear for trial, and as a result, the case was dismissed. 
On June 18, 2024,
Plaintiff moved the Court to set aside the default. Plaintiff's new counsel,
Lafayette Clarke, contends that Plaintiff failed to attend the trial due to a
mishap in LOJE’s email forwarding system, and the inadvertent failure to
calendar the trial date.
Legal Standard 
“It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.”¿
(Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt¿(1960)
180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.) 
Section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly
differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or
proceedings in the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.) “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a
showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court
has discretion to allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against’ a party or his or her attorney. 
Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by
attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the
court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid.,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd.
(b).) 
The mandatory portion
of section 473 requires the court to, “whenever an application for relief is
made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)¿
A timely mea culpa declaration by a plaintiff’s attorney establishing
that a dismissal was taken against her client as a result of attorney mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect deprives the court of the discretion to deny relief.¿
(Tackett v. City of Huntington Beach (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60, 65
Discussion
The present motion is
timely as the case was dismissed on December 19, 2023, and the present motion
was filed on June 18, 2024, within the six-month timeline to seek relief from
dismissal.
Plaintiff seeks
mandatory relief. Plaintiff alleges that Domingo, the original attorney
handling the case, ceased employment with LOJE in November 2022. At the time of
Domingo’s departure, LOJE’s Information Technology Department enabled email
forwarding and reasonably believed that Domingo’s emails would be forwarded to
the new handling attorney at LOJE. However, as a result of LOJE’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect, emails sent to Domingo’s
email address were not being forwarded. Additionally, anyone who sent an email
to Domingo’s email address did not receive a bounce-back message due to a
software error. As a result, anyone who sent an email to Domingo’s email address
would have reasonably believed that the email was received, even though the
email address was, in actuality, unmonitored and deactivated upon Domingo’s
departure from LOJE in November 2022. From December 2022 to about October 2023,
notices sent by the court to Domingo either physically or via his email address
went unnoticed as the email address was unmonitored. Consequently, LOJE had no
knowledge of the pending hearing dates, as no calendaring of the dates was
done. (Clarke Decl. ¶ 10, 11.)
The Court is not
persuaded that an email forwarding error led to Plaintiff's nonappearance at
the trial in December 2023. First, the trial date was set on June 21, 2022,
when Domingo was still employed by the law firm. It is not the case that
Plaintiff's counsel was only notified of the trial date via email after
Domingo's departure from the firm. In fact, there were no filings by Plaintiff
and no activity from the Court between June 2022 and December 2023.
Additionally, most Court notices are issued by mail. The Court is uncertain how
the email forwarding issue could have affected the delivery of physical mail.
Based on these reasons, the Court is not convinced that the email forwarding
error was the cause for Plaintiff's nonappearance at trial.
What appears more
plausible is Plaintiff’s assertion that the case was dismissed due to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s inadvertence to calendar the trial date as LOJE’s
litigation calendar reveals that none of the hearing dates mentioned were
calendared and no record of them was found in the system. (Clarke Decl. ¶ 12,
13.)  However, a significant issue with
this argument is that Domingo did not submit an affidavit attesting to his
mistake in not calendaring the trial date. The only affidavit submitted was by
Lafayette Clarke (“Clarke”), and it is unclear from the declaration to what
extent Clarke is involved in the present case. Importantly, Clarke does not
declare that he or she was responsible for failing to calendar the trial date. There
is no declaration from any individual attesting to his or her mistake or
inadvertence in failing to properly calendar the trial date, which led to the
dismissal of the case.
In essence, the motion
fails because there is no declaration from any attorney or individual attesting
to his/her fault that led to the dismissal. Additionally, the Court does not
find the email forwarding error to be the reason for Plaintiff's nonattendance
at trial.
Motion for Substitution
Because the motion to
vacate is denied and the case remains dismissed, Plaintiff’s motion for
substitution under § 377.11 is moot and therefore also denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 