 Case Number:  23GDCV00397    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/1/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.  23GDCV00397
Trial Date: 02/10/2025  
Case Name: GAYANE SAROYAN, et al. v. GAIL THACKRAY
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs GAYANE SAROYAN and MARGARITA MNATSAKANYAN (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) will and hereby do move this Court for an Order granting
Plaintiffs leave to file a First Amended Complaint against Defendants GAIL
THACKRAY and MORGAN SPRINGER (collectively “Defendants”) and that the proposed
First Amended Complaint submitted with this Motion be deemed filed.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, Gayane
Saroyan and Margarita Mnatsakanyan, filed the instant action on 2/28/2023
against Defendant, Gail Thackray.
Plaintiffs
allege that Gayane was driving her vehicle with her daughter Margarita.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Gail Thackray, who was in front of Plaintiffs’
vehicle, suddenly and unexpectedly reversed into Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
Plaintiffs
assert one cause of action for general negligence and another cause of action
titled “motor vehicle.”
The
instant hearing is scheduled for 11/1/2024, and trial is set for 2/10/2025.
Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend to file an FAC in order to: add Morgan Springer as a
Defendant, add a third cause of action for negligent entrustment of a motor
vehicle against Gail Thackray, include a prayer for punitive damages, and plead
additional facts about the case such as the true identity of the driver.
Preliminary Analysis
Moving Party: 
Plaintiffs, Gayane Saroyan and Margarita Mnatsakanyan (Plaintiffs)
Responding Party: Defendant,
Gail Thackray
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
LEGAL STANDARD – LEAVE TO
AMEND
The
court may, in furtherance of justice and on any proper terms, allow a party to amend
any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); Branick v.
Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235,
242.) The court may also, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer
to be made after the time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at
242.) Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between
the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy
in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v.
ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the
adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) Leave to amend
is thus liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)  The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to
amend if there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss
of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.  (Id.)  
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Further, a separate supporting declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule
3.1324(b).) 
“Leave to amend is in general required to be liberally
granted [citation omitted], provided there is no statute of limitations
concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
CRC 3.1324(a)
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)   include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
Here, Plaintiffs include in their motion
an Exhibit B which is the proposed FAC.
(2)   state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
Here, this motion does
not seek to delete allegations; it seeks to add allegations. 
(3)   state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  
Here, Plaintiffs’ notice of motion (on pages iii-xii)
indicates specifically what and where the new allegations will be located in
the FAC.
CRC 3.1324(b)
Further, under CRC 3.1324(b), a separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: 
(1)   the
effect of the amendment;
Plaintiffs attached the declaration of Garri
Shahinyan. The declaration explains how Morgan Springer was not named as a
Defendant in the original Complaint, how the FAC will add a claim for negligent
entrustment, and how Plaintiffs seek punitive damages.
(2)   why
the amendment is necessary and proper; 
Shahinyan explains the request for punitive damages
are necessary and proper because Springer acted with a conscious disregard for
Plaintiffs’ rights and safety when he crashed into them and fled the scene.
Further, Shahinyan explains that adding the negligent entrustment claim is
necessary and proper to make Plaintiffs whole for the wrongs committed by
Defendants.
(3)   when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;
Shahinyan explains that the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered on September 3, 2024.
 
(4)   the
reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier must accompany the
motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).) 
Shahinyan explains
the request was not made earlier because it was essential to depose Defendant
Thackray on September 3, 2024 to confirm Morgan Springer’s identity.
 
Discussion –
Procedural 
In Opposition,
Defendant attacks Plaintiffs’ support for CRC, Rule 3.1324(b)(3)-(4). 
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs don’t explain why the purported new information could not have
been included in their initial Complaint. 
 
Defendant also
seems to argue that Plaintiffs could have known the identity of Morgan Springer
earlier if they had done an online reverse number phone search when Plaintiffs
initially obtained a phone number at the scene of the incident. 
 
Further, Defendant
seems to imply that Plaintiffs should have known of Morgan’s identity earlier based
on Thackray’s responses in written discovery served over a year ago that
identified a person named Morgan.
 
The Court does not
find Defendant’s arguments availing. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Reply
explained how at the time of filing the original complaint they only knew the
vehicle involved in the wreck was registered to Thackray and that the driver at
the scene of the wreck identified himself as Connor and only provided a phone
number without any additional contact information.
 
Plaintiffs explain
how they had no way of verifying if “Connor” was Thackray operating under an
alias. Plaintiffs also explain how without confirmation, even though the person
at the scene of the incident identified himself as Connor, and even though
discovery responses identified a Morgan, they were not sure if this was the
same person. 
 
Plaintiffs explain
that the deposition of Thackray on September 3, 2024 was crucial to obtain the
true identity of the young man involved in the collision.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file
a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
“Leave to amend is in general required to be liberally
granted [citation omitted], provided there is no statute of limitations
concern. Leave to amend may be denied if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. [citation omitted].” (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) 
Defendant argues that allowing Plaintiffs to file the
FAC with only three months remaining before trial will unfairly prejudice
Thackray because Thackray will barely have time to file a motion to strike or
demurrer, and he will be completely barred from filing a motion for summary
judgment. Thackray also argues that additional discovery will have to be
conducted.
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument on
Defendant suffering unfair prejudice availing.
First, Plaintiffs’ Reply explained how Defendant’s
delay in scheduling the deposition of Defendant Thackray began all the way back
on April 22, 2024 when defense counsel wouldn’t respond to emails and objected
to a deposition notice. Further, Plaintiffs explained how Defendant’s counsel
went silent for two months about deposition dates until Plaintiffs sent a
second notice of deposition. 
Further, Plaintiffs explained how they tried to
stipulate on September 5, 2024 to the filing of an FAC but Defendant’s counsel
refused. 
Additionally, Plaintiffs explain how there are
self-resolving procedural mechanisms to postpone a trail when all attorneys of
record of the parties agree to postpone the trial. Plaintiffs also explain no trial
continuance has been requested in this matter. 
Overall, given the great liberality in allowing the
amendment of pleadings to decide cases on their merits, and the parties’
potential procedural ability to postpone trial, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted.
Defendant’s arguments that the FAC does not support a
claim for negligent entrustment or punitive damages is unavailing. 
The court will not usually consider
the validity (i.e. whether it would survive a demurer or motion to strike) of
the proposed amended pleading, as consideration of validity of the proposed
amended pleading is premature. (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(Marker USA) (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
 