 Case Number:  24STCV12715    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     January 21, 2025                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set                                                          CASE:                         Jose Licea v. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. CASE NO.:                 24STCV12715  PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST SET OF SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS  I.         INTRODUCTION             Plaintiff Jose Licea (Plaintiff or Licea) brings this action against Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (Defendant or Hilton) for violation of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA).  Licea alleges that Hilton operates the website “www.grandwailea.com” which provides information about the Grand Wailea, a resort located in Hawaii.  Unbeknownst to website visitors, Hilton deploys spyware on the website which accesses visitors’ devices and installs tracking spyware without obtaining consent.  The tracking spyware allows Hilton to monitor visitors’ online habits after leaving the website.  Licea further alleges that Hilton accessed Licea’s device after Licea visited the website.             Thereafter, Hilton moved to quash service of summons.  The motion was heard and taken under submission.  On August 29, 2024, the court issued a ruling granting Plaintiff’s request to conduct jurisdictional discovery and directed Plaintiff to submit a jurisdictional discovery plan.  The court approved the plan.  Pursuant to the plan, Plaintiff propounded his first set of Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents.  Hilton served responses which were a mixture of objections and substantive responses.  Plaintiff took issue with the responses. On December 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an order compelling Hilton to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents. On January 7, 2025, Hilton filed an opposition. On January 13, 2025, Plaintiff replied. II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD A.   Meet and Confer Hilton argues the motion should be denied because Plaintiff did not meet and confer prior to the filing of this motion.  A motion to compel further response to interrogatories or requests for production of documents must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿              The argument lacks merit.  Plaintiff sent a 15-page meet and confer letter regarding the issues raised in this motion, drafted a Stipulated Protective Order in response to Hilton’s confidentiality objections, and sent another meet and confer letter in response to Hilton’s email on December 3, 2024 email.  (See Farrell Decl., ¶¶ 9-11, Exs. 6-8.)  Plaintiff undoubtedly met and conferred in good faith.  The court proceeds to rule on the merits of the motion. B.    Analysis Plaintiff seeks a further response to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 1-3, and 5, and Requests for Production of Documents, Nos. 1 and 2.  Under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories and requests for production of documents¿where an answer to the request is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ The motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿The court addresses each discovery set in turn.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 1.     Special Interrogatories No. 1: IDENTIFY the percentage of revenue that YOU either directly obtain or indirectly obtain from California residents versus residents of the rest of the United States of America during the 2023-2024 timeframe. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving these objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant is the parent company of the Hilton enterprises and does not derive any revenue directly from California residents relating to the Grand Wailea Resort or its website. Defendant derives its revenue from subsidiaries but not in a manner in which such revenue is traceable to California.” Ruling:  GRANTED.  Response is not code compliant.  “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).)  Hilton must contact its subsidiaries to determine if the subsidiaries can provide the information.  If the subsidiaries cannot provide the information, Hilton should so state. No. 2: During the 2023-2024 timeframe, did residents of California make reservations for the Grand Wailea Resort resulting from their use of the WEBSITE? If so, then IDENTIFY how many did so. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant does not own the www.grandwailea.com website. Defendant is the parent company of the Hilton enterprises. Such reservation information is not within Defendant’s possession, custody, or control. Ruling:  GRANTED.  Response is not code compliant.  “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).)  If the reservation information is not in Hilton’s possession, custody, or control, Hilton must contact the relevant party.  If the party cannot provide the information, Hilton should so state. No. 3: During the 2020-2024 timeframe, did YOU ADVERTISE the Grand Wailea Resort to California residents? If so, then IDENTIFY such advertisements and their circumstances. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: No. Defendant did not advertise the Grand Wailea Resort to California residents in 2023-2024.” Ruling:  DENIED.  Plaintiff defines “YOU” to “mean and refer to Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and any and all of YOUR present or former advisors, agents, partners, associates, employees, accountants, auditors, representatives or other persons acting or purporting to act on YOUR behalf including, but not limited to, YOUR corporate affiliates including Hilton International LLC.”  Hilton objected to this definition on the grounds that it exceeds the scope of the court’s order granting Plaintiff leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery.   The objection is meritorious and therefore sustained.  Further, Hilton’s response is code compliant.  No. 5: Did YOU operate any aspect of the WEBSITE during 2023-2024, including exercise any control over any aspect of it? If not, IDENTIFY all of the operators of the WEBSITE during 2023-2024. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant did and does not operate www.grandwailea.com during 2023-2024. The website is maintained by the Grand Wailea property.”  Ruling: DENIED.  Plaintiff defines “YOU” to “mean and refer to Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and any and all of YOUR present or former advisors, agents, partners, associates, employees, accountants, auditors, representatives or other persons acting or purporting to act on YOUR behalf including, but not limited to, YOUR corporate affiliates including Hilton International LLC.”  Hilton objected to this definition on the grounds that it exceeds the scope of the court’s order granting Plaintiff leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery.   The objection is meritorious and therefore sustained.  Further, Hilton’s response is code compliant.  2.     Request for Production of Documents No. 1: All DOCUMENTS that reflect the percentage of revenue that YOU either directly obtain or indirectly obtain from California residents versus residents of the rest of the United States of America during 2023-2024. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: There are no documents responsive to this Request.” Ruling:  GRANTED.  Hilton’s response amounts to an inability to comply.  “A response stating inability to comply with the CCP § 2031.010 demand shall state the following: That a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to locate the item demanded; and the reason the party is unable to comply: e.g., the document: never existed; or has been lost or stolen; or has been destroyed; or is not in the possession, custody or control of the responding party, in which case, the response must state the name and address of anyone believed to have the document.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 8:1473, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)  The response is not code compliant.  If there are no documents responsive to the request, Hilton must state no such documents were found after conducting a diligent search and reasonable inquiry to locate responsive items and why Hilton cannot comply. No. 2: All DOCUMENTS that reflect the number of residents of California who made reservations for the Grand Wailea Resort resulting from their use of the WEBSITE. Hilton’s Substantive Response: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: There are no documents responsive to this Request.” Ruling:  GRANTED.  Hilton’s response amounts to an inability to comply.  “A response stating inability to comply with the CCP § 2031.010 demand shall state the following: That a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to locate the item demanded; and the reason the party is unable to comply: e.g., the document: never existed; or has been lost or stolen; or has been destroyed; or is not in the possession, custody or control of the responding party, in which case, the response must state the name and address of anyone believed to have the document. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 8:1473, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)  The response is not code compliant.  If there are no documents responsive to the request, Hilton must state no such documents were found after conducting a diligent search and reasonable inquiry to locate responsive items and why Hilton cannot comply.  III.      CONCLUSION             Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Specially appearing Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings is ordered to provide a further response to Plaintiff’s First Set of Special Interrogatories, Nos. 1 and 2, and Requests for Production of Documents, Nos. 1 and 2 within 30 days of the date of this order.  The motion is denied as to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 3 and 5. Plaintiff to give notice.  Dated:   January 21, 2025                                     Kerry Bensinger    Judge of the Superior Court            