..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22SMCV02373
Plaintiff's Name: [Unknown]
Defendant's Name: LAUSD (Los Angeles Unified School District)
People-Names: Kennard, Mosk, Fellows
Company-Names: [Unknown]
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: April 29, 2024
Events: Motion for judgment on the pleadings
Money: [Unknown]
Intentions: To determine the constitutionality of a statute of limitations extension
Facts: Plaintiff alleges molestation by an LAUSD employee at an LAUSD school
Disputes: Defendant argues that the statute of limitations extension is unconstitutional
Acts: Extension of statute of limitations by the Legislature
Agreements: California Constitution, California statutes
Laws: Chambers v. Gallagher, Campbell v. Holt, Frazer v. California, Stogner v. California, In re Marriage of Fellows
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Constitution
Roles:
  - Judge: [Unknown]
  - Plaintiff: [Unknown]
  - Defendant: LAUSD
  - Legislature: California State Legislature
  - Supreme Court: California Supreme Court
Significant Statements:
  - "The court believes that Chambers is no longer good law."
  - "The court chooses to follow Frazer and Fellows, two much more recent California Supreme Court cases."
  - "The court does not believe it would bar the statute."
  - "The importance of the state interest is plainly viewed highly."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. The plaintiff alleges molestation by an LAUSD employee at an LAUSD school. The defendant argues that the statute of limitations extension is unconstitutional. The judge disagrees, citing recent California Supreme Court cases such as Frazer v. California and In re Marriage of Fellows. The judge concludes that the extension does not violate due process rights and denies the motion.
