  Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC in preparation for a three day
jury trial scheduled for Monday, May 6, 2024. 
The FSC order was given on May 2, 2023. 

 
On April 24, 2024, the court received the following
materials: (1) Joint Statement of the Case; (2) Joint Witness List (5 live
witnesses, 1 by deposition, 20 hours total testimony); (3) Joint Exhibit List
(30 exhibits); (4) Joint CACI Instructions; (5) Defendant’s Proposed
Instructions to which Plaintiff Objects; and (6) Joint Special Verdict Form (to
which both parties object).  On April 25,
2024, the court received Joint Stipulations (which the court hereby adopts).  The court also received defendant’s trial
brief.
 
The court has not received a jury questionnaire, which is
permissible if no one wants to use a questionnaire.  The court has not received a joint good faith
estimate of trial length, but the court can inquire.  The court has not received a deposition
chart, which is a problem because one witness is going to be heard by
deposition only if the witness cannot appear remotely.  The court has not received a plaintiff’s
trial brief, but it is not required.  The
court has not received a statement of unusual issues, which is not required if
there are none.
 
In short, other than the deposition chart and good faith
estimate, the case is READY FOR TRIAL. 
The deposition chart will be submitted no later than noon on Wednesday,
May 1, 2024.
 
The trial will begin on May 6, 2024, at 10:30.
 
On the first day of trial, the parties will bring the
following to court: (1) BINDER 1 consisting of (a) the operative complaint; (b)
the operative answer; (c) the witness list; (d) the exhibit list; (e) the short
statement of the case; (f) plaintiff’s trial brief; (g) defendant’s trial
brief; (h) the jury instruction list—agreed, plaintiff’s proposed, and
defendant’s proposed (i) other FSC documents filed; (2) BINDER 2 consisting of
(a) agreed jury instructions as they will be read to the jury; (b) plaintiff’s
proposed jury instructions; (c) defendant’s proposed jury instructions; (d)
joint verdict form or, if there is no joint form, plaintiff’s proposal followed
by defendant’s proposal; (3) BINDER 3 (3 copies) consisting of the exhibits
tabbed by exhibit number with an index at the front; (4) BINDER 4 consisting of
the in limine motions by motion including the motion, opposition, reply,
and ruling; (5) two copies of each deposition transcript that might be used for
any purpose at trial.
 
The court will, at the end of today’s FSC, issue its MIL
rulings unless something happens that suggests that the matter is not going to
trial next week.  The court has received
two MIL’s, both from the defense. 