  Case Number:  21TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 February 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21TRCV00666
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sebastian
Medvei v. Dominique Nikko Westmoreland, et al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland
(No Opposition)
 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 24, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1)  Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant, Dominique Nikko
Westmoreland
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant, Dominique Nikko Westmoreland is GRANTED to be taken on or before February 23, 2024
                                                (2)
Monetary sanctions are GRANTED in the amount of $960, payable on or before February 29, 2024 from Defendant
to the Plaintiff’s counsel
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
On
September 10, 2021, Plaintiff, Sebastian Medvei (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, Dominque Nikko Westmoreland, and DOES 1 through 100. The
Complaint alleges a cause of action for Malicious Prosecution. 
 
Plaintiff,
as a lawyer of Medvei Law Group, APC, represented a party that sued one of
Defendant’s clients, Brandi Linton, in Case No. 20STCV42456. Thereafter, in a
subsequent case, 21STCV07905, Defendant as counsel for his client Brandi Linton
filed a Complaint against Plaintiff for alleged violation of the Immigrations
Consultants Act (“ICA”).  Per Plaintiff, he
advised Defendant that attorneys are not an “immigration consultant” as defined
in the ICA. Plaintiff contends he repeatedly asked Defendant to dismiss the
case and Defendant refused. Eventually, Plaintiff served a motion for sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 on Defendant. In response to that
motion, Defendant voluntarily dismissed Plaintiff. Plaintiff thereafter filed
this follow-up suit for Malicious Prosecution after procuring the dismissal of
the Linton vs Medvei case.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion asserts that on October 7, 2021, Plaintiff served Defendant with a
notice for Defendant’s deposition to be held on October 25, 2021, with no
attending document requests, but Defendant failed to appear at that deposition
and did not object to the notice. Thereafter, Plaintiff notes that the case was
stayed pending mediation.  On November
30, 2023, the stay was lifted after denial of Defendant’s motion to enforce
settlement on November 13, 2023. In earlier proceedings in this malicious prosecution
case, Westmoreland filed an anti-SLAPP motion which Judge Tanaka denied in a
detailed ruling.  
 
 
Per
the moving papers, on December 15, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with a
second notice of deposition with a deposition date of December 28, 2023.   The day before, Defendant served a written
objection to the second notice which Plaintiff claims to have been untimely.
The objection asserted the deposition date was unilaterally set without
consultation as to Defendant’s availability; and because Defendant asserted the
action is stayed pending an appeal in this matter. However, Plaintiff asserts
that an appeal from a non-appealable order does not stay the action, and here,
no judgment has ever been entered in this case. Instead, Plaintiff notes that
the only order that was entered by the Court on November 13, 2023 (the date
specified in the Notice of Appeal as the date of the order being appealed from)
was the order denying Defendant’s motion to enforce settlement and setting the
trial in this matter. Plaintiff asserts that an order denying a motion to
enforce settlement is nonapplicable. As an aside, the Court recalls that Judge
Tanaka was the settlement officer who presided over the proceedings in which
the purported settlement agreement was created, an agreement this Court has
found to lack proof of a meeting of the minds as to all material terms.
 
            Plaintiff
notes that he reached out to Defendant in an attempt to reschedule the
deposition for a date that worked for Defendant. Plaintiff notes that Defendant
was informed of the fact that an order denying a motion to enforce a settlement
is not appealable. Nonetheless, Plaintiff notes Defendant was not cooperative
with Plaintiff’s counsel to schedule a deposition, which is why Plaintiff has
brought this Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant.
 
II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to
compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Here, there is no written opposition to the
motion to compel deposition.  Plaintiff nonetheless
raises anticipated defense argument in the moving papers and then addresses
each in turn.  first argues that Defendant
attempts to appeal a nonappealable order. On December 26, 2023, Defendant filed
a notice of appeal of this Court’s November 13, 2023 minute order, which denied
Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Settlement. Ordinarily, an order denying a motion
to enforce a settlement in pending litigation under Code of Civil Procedure
664.4 is not appealable, as judgment has not yet been entered and there are
accordingly issues left in the trial court for consideration. (Walton v.
Mueller (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 161.) Here, there is proof that a judgment or
an immediately appealable order has been entered. Thus, there is no legitimate
ground for Defendant to object to his deposition by reason of the attempt to
appeal the Court’s ruling on the motion to enforce settlement; no application
to reinstitute a stay of discovery has been filed nor has any appellate writ
been filed.
 
            Next, Defendant
asserted an objection that the deposition was unilaterally scheduled for a date
the Court observes to be during the end-of-year holiday period.  Plaintiff  asserts that Defendant served the objections the
day before the deposition himself, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure §
1013(a)(1-4)(requiring proof of service be made only by a person not a party to
the cause). Had Defendant offered any date in his December 26, 2023 objections,
the Court would be inclined to consider the “civility” objection on its merit,
but even through the afternoon before the hearing o this motion the Court has
no evidence that Defendant is willing to submit to this authorized method of
discovery, i.e., a deposition of the party opponent.  The Court thus GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion and orders
the taking of Defendant’s deposition at a date, time and place to be agreed
upon by the parties on or before February 23, 2024.  If the parties do not reach an agreement on the
date, time and place of the deposition, the Court orders it shall be at the offices
of Plaintiff’s counsel on February 23, 2024 commencing at 9:30 a.m. and
continuing for up to 7 hours that day with 15 minute breaks at 10:45 a.m. and 2:00
p.m., and a one-hour lunch break at 12 noon until 1 p.m. 
 
C.   
¿¿ Sanctions
 
Here,
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions in the amount of $6,060. Pursuant to Code of
Civil procedure § 2025.450(g)(1), if a motion is granted, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction…in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts that his normal hourly rate is $750, that he spent 2 hours
drafting the motion, anticipates 4 hours drafting a reply brief, and
anticipates 2 hours appearing at the motion via LA Court connect, as well as spending
$60 on the filing fee. This Court does not find the hourly rate as it relates
to this motion and this case to be reasonable. The Court also notes Plaintiff
has not filed a reply brief as no opposition brief has been filed. As such, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions, but in the lowered amount of $960,
payable on or before February 29, 2024 from Defendant to the Plaintiff’s
counsel.
 
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this order.