 Case Number:  23TRCV01025    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 February 6, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01025
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        American
Ironworks Manufacturing Inc. v. Inglewood Market Gateway LLC, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Milender White Residential SoCal Corp. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, American Ironworks Manufacturing, Inc.
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration
is GRANTED as against Plaintiff, but the Court DENIES to compel non-signatory
ARCH into arbitration but stays the civil litigation as to ARCH pending a
hearing on a petition to enforce the arbitrator’s award.  The
Court also sets an arbitration status conference for December 10, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. in Department IW-8
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
April 4, 2023, Plaintiff, American Ironworks Manufacturing, Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant, Inglewood Market Gateway LLC, ST Market
D3, LLC, MW Residential SoCal Corp., and DOES 1 through 150. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Enforcement of
Mechanics Lien; (3) Common Counts; and (4) Lien Release Bond. 
 
Defendant,
Milender White Residential SoCal Corp. (“Milender”) now files a Motion to
Compel Plaintiff into Arbitration.
 
B.
Procedural 
 
On November 22, 2023, Milender
filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On December 28, 2023, Milender files a reply brief.  
 
On January 5, 2024, this Court
continued the hearing on the arbitration motion and sought supplemental briefs or
a stipulation of the parties bearing on whether Arch Insurance could be
compelled into arbitration.  The Court
set a briefing schedule for defendant, Arch Insurance Company for its
supplemental brief on the non-signatory party issue to be filed by January 19,
2024, and any opposition to Arch’s brief or sur replies to Arch’s brief to be
filed by January 26, 2024. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Arch filed a
brief arguing it could not be required to participate in arbitration between
AIM and Milender. 
 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff
AIM filed a non-opposition, noting it would not oppose Arch’s brief on whether
it could be compelled to arbitrate. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. As a general rule, subject to several
exceptions, a party who has not signed the arbitration agreement in not
normally compelled to participate in an arbitration between signatory parties
or with a signatory party.  
 
If the court orders arbitration,
then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is completed.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
          In the
Court’s previous tentative ruling, it granted Milender’s motion to Compel
Arbitration, but ordered the parties to brief the issue of whether ARCH, a
non-signatory to the arbitration agreement, could be ordered to participate in
the arbitration.  “A third-party
beneficiary may enforce a contract expressly made for his benefit. [Citation.]
And although the contract may not have been made to benefit him alone, he may
enforce those promises directly made for him. [Citations.]” (Murphy v.
Allstate Ins. Co. (1976) 17 Cal.3d 937, 943.) With regard to arbitration
clauses, a third-party beneficiary wishing to invoke an arbitration clause has
to show that the arbitration clause itself was made expressly for its benefit.
(Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830,
838.) 
 
          ARCH
argues that there is no evidence to suggest that either AIM or Milender
intended for ARCH to be bound by the Arbitration provision. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that there is no language stating that in the event a Mechanic’s
lien is recorded, the surety issuing a mechanic’s lien bond would be bound by
the agreement, and no evidence ARCH agreed or intended to participate in
arbitration agreements. As such, there is an issue as to whether a
non-signatory can be bound to the arbitration provision. ARCH argues that it is
not a third-party beneficiary to the subcontract agreement, nor is there any
agency relationship that would require ARCH to participate in the arbitration.
ARCH also argues that the Mechanic’s Lien recorded by AIM did not incorporate
the subcontract agreement, that there is no evidence the parties to the
subcontract agreement intended for ARCH to participate in arbitration, and no
exceptions that would permit ARCH to be included in the arbitration
proceedings. 
 
         
Further, the contracting party, AIM, filed a non-opposition to this
supplemental briefing. 
 
          Accordingly,
with no signatory party to the arbitration agreement arguing that Arch should
be compelled into the arbitration between the two signatories tot eh
arbitration agreement and in the absence of a stipulation to the contrary, the
Court has no basis to order ARCH into the arbitration between AIM and Milender
and therefore denies the motion to compel to the extent it might have been read
to include Arch in its ambit.  The Court
will sever the claims and causes of action asserted against Arch pending the
completion of the arbitration and order a stay of the civil litigation matter
pending a hearing on any petition to enforce the arbitrator’s award.  The Court sets an arbitration status
conference for December 10, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department IW-8.
 
            Defendant ARCH is ordered to give
notice. 