  Case Number:  23VECV04520    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  W E.P. HANDY vs WANQING XIONG, et al.
 
APPLICATION FOR pro hac vice
 
Date of Hearing:        July
11, 2024              Trial Date:       N/A 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04520 
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
E.P.  Handy  
Responding Party:     None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff E.P.
Handy filed a complaint against Defendants Brothers Take Out Corporation, Brother
Logistics Group Inc., and Wanqing Xiong for Negligence, Negligence Per Se, and
Negligence Hiring, Training, Entrustment, Supervision and Retention. 
 
Plaintiff alleges on November 15, 2021, Defendant Xiong, an
employee of Defendant Brothers, was negligently driving a 2017 Freightliner
Cascadia, semi-truck with trailer, when Defendant Xiong negligently changed
lanes into the right lane, struck Plaintiff’s vehicle on the driver’s side rear
quarter panel causing it to rotate counterclockwise and collide with the front
of the Defendants’ Freightliner. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Xiong pushed
Plaintiff’s vehicle approximately 45 feet before Plaintiff’s vehicle rotated off
of the front of the semi-truck to the North and slammed into the inside
concrete retaining wall. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: GRANT 
 
Michael E. Carr, Esq. and Blake D.
Beeler submit an application for admission pro hac vice as counsel for Plaintiff
Handy alongside Carrie Rognlien, Esq.  
 
Mr. Carr is a member of the Oklahoma
and Arkansas State Bar as well as the United States of Eastern District of
Oklahoma, United States of Western District of Oklahoma, United States of
Northern District of Oklahoma, and United States of Eastern District of
Arkansas. Mr. Beeler is a member of the Oklahoma State Bar as well as U.S.
District Court Western District of Oklahoma, U.S. District Court Northern District
of Oklahoma, U.S. District Court Eastern District of Oklahoma, U.S. 10th
Circuit Court of Appeals, Date of Admission is April 2004, and U.S. Court of
Federal Claims. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court
9.40, an application for appearance pro
hac vice must be served on all parties who have appeared in the case and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco Office. Additionally, the
application must state:
 
(1)  
The applicant's residence and office
address;
(2)  
The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  
That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts;
(4)  
That the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  
The title of court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  
The name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
Mr. Hall has fulfilled these
requirements. The declaration of Nathan Shaffer in support of the motion states
he has sent a copy of the motion to the California State Bar with the fee of
$50.00. (Shaffer Decl. ¶3, Exh. A.) The motion is GRANTED, contingent on proof the
State Bar has received the $50.00 fee. 
 