 Case Number:  24STCP00323    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KIBRE &
  NEMAN, LLP, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
GLORIA GOVAN,
                                                                             
  
                        Respondent.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCP00323
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD
 
Date: July 10, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner
Kibre & Neman, LLP (“Petitioner”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The court considered the moving
papers filed in connection with this petition. No opposition to the petition
was filed.
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arose from a dispute regarding
non-payment of attorney fees by Respondent Gloria Govan (“Respondent”).  The matter was arbitrated pursuant to the
terms of the retainer agreement between Petitioner and Respondent.  
 
            On October 16, 2023, the arbitrator
issued an award of $143,717.23 in favor of Petitioner.
 
Petitioner
now moves to confirm the arbitration award by filing the instant petition to
confirm the arbitration award against Respondent on January 31, 2024.
            
DISCUSSION
            An arbitration award is not
directly enforceable until it is confirmed by a court and judgment is
entered.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6; Jones
v. Kvistad (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 836, 840.) 
 A party may seek a court judgment
confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition at least 10
days, but no more than four years after the award is served.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.)
 
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as respondents all
parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound
by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)  “A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set
forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate
unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth
the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the
award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)  “If a petition or response under this chapter
is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made…unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)  Any response to the petition is required to be
filed and served within 10 days after service of the petition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.) 
 
The
Court finds that Petitioner has established that the procedural requirements
have been met.  There being no response,
the Court finds that the arbitration award is proper to confirm. “If [an] award
is confirmed, judgment must be entered in conformity therewith.” (Jones,
supra.) 
 
RULING
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Petitioner’s petitioner to confirm
arbitration award.  The Court orders Petitioner
to file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days of the date of this order.

 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 10th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



