  Case Number:  23STCV26298    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





LETICIA
  Y. HERNANDEZ, ET AL., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
NISSAN NORTH AMERICA, INC., ET AL.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV26298
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION FOR AN ORDER DEEMING TRUTH OF
  MATTER IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS (SET ONE) 
ADMITTED
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
  SET ONE
 
  
 
Date: July 10, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiffs
Leticia Y. Hernandez and Rodrigo Hernandez (“Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
None
 
The Court has
considered the moving papers filed.  No opposition papers were filed. Any opposition papers were required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days before the hearing under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b).
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiffs against Defendant Nissan
North America, Inc. (“Defendant”), alleging violations of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act.
 
            On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed: (1) a Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One (the “SIs Motion”); (2) a Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One (the “FIs Motion”); (3) a Motion to Compel Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (the “RFPs Motion”); and (4) a
Motion for an Order Deeming the Truth of Matter in Requests for Admission (Set
One) Admitted (the “RFAs Motion”) (collectively, “Discovery Motions”).
 
SIs Motion
Under CCP section 2030.290, subdivision (b), when a
party directs interrogatories towards a party, and that party fails to serve a
timely response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an
order compelling response to the interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely
response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs
served special interrogatories (“SIs”) upon Defendant on January 10, 2024.  (Declaration of Ahmed H. Yousef in Support of
Motion to Compel Responses to SIs, Set One (“Yousef SIs Decl.”), ¶ 5; Exh. 3.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the SIs as
of April 5, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs
now move for an order compelling Defendant to serve responses to the SIs.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ SI Motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the SIs,
without objections, within 20 days of this order.  
 
FIs
Motion
As noted
above, when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiffs served form interrogatories (“FIs”) upon Defendant on January 10,
2024.  (Declaration of Ahmed H. Yousef in
Support of Motion to Compel Responses to FIs, Set One (“Yousef FIs Decl.”), ¶
5; Exh. 4.)  Defendant did not serve
responses to the FIs as of April 5, 2024. 
(Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiffs now
move for an order compelling Defendant to serve responses to the FIs.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ FIs Motion is GRANTED.   Defendant is ordered to submit
complete, Code-compliant and verified responses to the FIs, without objections,
within 20 days of this order.  
 
RFAs
Motion 
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  
 
Here,
Plaintiffs served requests for admission (“RFAs”) upon Defendant on January 10,
2024.  (Declaration of Ahmed H. Yousef in
Support of Motion to Compel Responses to RFAs, Set One (“Yousef RFAs Decl.”), ¶
5; Exh. 2.)  Defendant did not serve
responses to the RFAs as of April 5, 2024. 
(Id., ¶ 6.)  No opposition to
the RFAs Motion was filed as of the date of this Order.  Plaintiffs now move for an order deeming the
truth of the matters in Plaintiffs’ RFAs as admitted.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ RFAs Motion is GRANTED.  The truth of the matters specified in the
RFAs is deemed admitted.  

 
RFPs Motion
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
 
Here,
Plaintiffs served requests for production (“RFPs”) upon Defendant on January
10, 2024.  (Declaration of Ahmed H.
Yousef in Support of Motion to Compel Responses to RFPs, Set One (“Yousef RFPs
Decl.”), ¶ 5; Exh. 1.)  Defendant did not
serve responses to the RFPs as of April 5, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiffs now move for an order compelling
Defendant to serve responses to the RFPs.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ RFPs Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to submit complete, Code-compliant and verified responses
to the RFPs, without objections, together with all responsive documents, within
20 days of this Order.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
            “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction on the party or attorney,
or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission
necessitated a motion for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and
the truth of any matters specified in the request as deemed admitted.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).); Cal.
Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition
was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
In connection with each of the Discovery Motions,
Plaintiffs are seeking monetary sanctions in the amount of $500 for each day
that Defendant does not fully comply with the Order.  Because the Court is unable to discern the
extent to which the requested sanctions reflect work actually performed, the
Court finds no evidentiary basis for the granting of sanctions and therefore
none are awarded. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 10th day of July 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 