 Case Number:  20CHCV00648    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/13/23                                                                   
TRIAL DATE: 3/4/24
Case #20CHCV00648
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AT DEPOSITION
 
Motion filed on 7/19/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia
Alvarado
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Michael Meadows 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling
Defendant Michael Meadows to produce, without objection, documents demanded in
Plaintiffs’ deposition notice.  
 
To the extent that Mr. Meadows ultimately
finds and produces documents, Plaintiffs request an order permitting them to
depose Mr. Meadows again for the limited purpose of questioning him regarding
those documents.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiffs request sanctions
against Mr. Meadows and his counsel of record, Fitzgerald
Kreditor Bolduc Risbrough LLP, in the amount of $3,640.  

 

RULING: The motion is granted as set forth
below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a dispute between neighbors,
Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia Alvarado (collectively, Plaintiffs) and
Defendants Michael Meadows and Althea Meadows (collectively, Defendants).
 
Beginning in June of 2022, Plaintiffs have served
Defendant Michael Meadows (Mr. Meadows) with several deposition notices in an
attempt to take and/or complete his deposition. 
In response to deposition notices served for deposition dates in July
2022 and September 2022, Mr. Meadows did not serve any objections to the
deposition notices and failed to appear. 
(Chimoures Decl., Ex.1-2).  In
response to a deposition notice served for 12/5/22, Mr. Meadows did not serve
any objections, appeared but did not produce any of the requested
documents.  (Chimoures Decl., Ex.3).  On 12/15/22, Mr. Meadows again appeared did
not serve objections, did not produce documents and testified that he had not
performed a search for the documents or could not remember if he had.  (Chimoures Decl., Ex.6).     
 
On 12/21/22, this Court ordered Mr. Meadows deposition to
be completed within 30 days of the hearing and imposed sanctions against Mr.
Meadows.  (See 12/21/22 Minute
Order).  Therefore, on 1/4/23, Plaintiffs
noticed Mr. Meadows deposition for 1/20/23. 
(Chimoures Decl., Ex.4).  On
1/13/23, Mr. Meadows counsel served responses to the deposition notice.  (Chimoures Decl., Ex.8).  Mr. Meadows also filed a motion for
protective order (regarding having the deposition take place on a weekend) and
Plaintiffs filed another motion to compel. 
On 4/27/22, the Court denied Mr. Meadows’ motion for a protective order
regarding the taking of his deposition and granted Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
Mr. Meadows’ deposition and imposed sanctions on Mr. Meadows and his attorney.  (See 4/27/23 Minute Order).  Thereafter, on 5/5/23, Plaintiffs noticed Mr.
Meadows deposition for 5/17/23. 
(Chimoures Decl., Ex.5).  The  deposition notice included the same requests for
production of documents.  Id.  In response to the deposition notice served
on 5/5/23, Mr. Meadows served objections on 5/10/23.  (Chimoures Decl., Ex.9).
 
At the deposition, Mr. Meadows indicated that he,
personally, had failed to conduct a search for responsive documents and his
attorney indicated that documents that were produced were subject to the
objections served on 5/5/23.  (Chimoures
Decl., Ex.7, p.312:18-25).
 
During the meet and confer process, counsel for the
parties agreed that any deadline to file the instant motion was extended to
7/19/23.  (Chimoures Decl., Ex.12).  Counsel for the parties were unable to
informally resolve this discovery dispute. 
(Chimoures Decl., Ex.10-11). 
Therefore, on 7/19/23, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order compelling Mr. Meadows to produce, without objection,
documents demanded in Plaintiffs’ deposition notice.  To the extent that Mr. Meadows ultimately
finds and produces documents, Plaintiffs request an order permitting them to
depose Mr. Meadows again for the limited purpose of questioning him regarding
those documents.  Additionally,
Plaintiffs request sanctions against Mr. Meadows and his counsel of record,
Fitzgerald Kreditor Bolduc Risbrough LLP, in the amount of $3,640. 
 
Mr. Meadows has opposed the motion and Plaintiffs have
filed a reply to the opposition.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
CCP 2025.410(a) provides: 
 
“Any party served with a deposition
notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.”
 
See also CCP 2025.460(a).
 
Plaintiffs contend that Mr. Meadows waived any objections
to the document requests in the deposition notice(s) because no objections were
made to the same requests which were included in all of the deposition notices
served before the notice served on 5/5/23. 
Without citing any authority, Mr. Meadows claims that “[i]t does not
matter whether Defendant objected to previous notices.”  (See Opposition, p.2:5-6 and
generally).
 
The Court finds Mr. Meadows position to be without
merit.  Otherwise, the waiver set forth
in CCP 2025.410(a) for failure to timely object would essentially be
meaningless.  It makes no sense that a
party who fails to timely object to a deposition notice, thereby waiving
objections thereto, should be permitted to assert otherwise waived objections
in response to a new notice of deposition served pursuant to a court order
granting a motion to compel.  Such a
result, would reward a party for failing to appear at a properly noticed
deposition without having served valid objections to the notice.  
 
As noted above, several deposition notices were served on
Mr. Meadows, all of which included the same requests for production of
documents.  Since Mr. Meadows failed to
timely object to the prior notices, dating back to June 2022, the Court finds
that he has waived any objection to the requests.  
 
Mr. Meadows argument that the instant motion is untimely
based on the prior deposition notices is also without merit.  Mr. Meadows did not serve objections to the
prior notices and his deposition has not been completed.  (Chimoures Decl.).  Therefore, the 60-day deadline set forth in
CCP 2025.480(b) was never triggered. 
Additionally, with regard to Mr. Meadows’ failure to appear in response
to the prior deposition notices, Plaintiffs filed two motions to compel which
were granted.  (See 12/21/22
Minute Order; 4/27/23 Minute Order).  
 
Even if the objections had not been waived, Mr. Meadows
has failed to justify them.  See Fairmont
Insurance Co. (2000) 22 C4th 245, 255. 
With regard to the objections based on attorney-client privilege and
attorney work product, Mr. Meadows has failed to provide a privilege log.  The requests are not vague or ambiguous and
are sufficiently particularized.  Mr.
Meadows has also failed to establish responsive documents are equally available
to Plaintiffs, have previously been produced and/or that producing the
documents in response to these requests would be overly burdensome.  
 
Plaintiffs are entitled to an award of sanctions against
Mr. Meadows and his counsel for their failure to produce documents after
failing to timely object.  CCP
2025.450(a), (g)(1).  Therefore,
sanctions are imposed against Mr. Meadows and his counsel, Fitzgerald Kreditor
Bolduc Risbrough LLP, in the amount of $3,640. 
(Chimoures Decl. ¶27).
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Mr. Meadows is ordered to
personally search for documents responsive to the requests for production
contained in the multiple deposition notices served on him by Plaintiffs and
within 15 days either, produce responsive documents without objection, or provide
a verified response indicating that no responsive documents were found after
conducting a diligent search.  
 
To the extent that Mr. Meadows ultimately finds and
produces documents, Plaintiffs are  permitted to further depose Mr. Meadows for
the limited purpose of questioning him regarding those documents.  
 
Sanctions are imposed against Mr. Meadows and his counsel
of record, Fitzgerald Kreditor Bolduc Risbrough LLP, in the amount of $3,640,
payable within 30 days.  
 