 Case Number:  23CHCP00335    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/13/23
Case #23CHCP00335
 
PETITION FOR
RELIEF FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 945.4
 
Petition filed on 8/10/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioners Angelina Bawaan, by and through
her Guardian Ad Litem, Maria Cruz Perez; David Bawaan, Jr., by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, Marai Cruz Perez; Isaac Bawaan, by and through his Guardian
Ad Litem, Maria Cruz Perez; and Penelope Bawaan, by and through her Guardian Ad
Litem, Maria Cruz Perez
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondents County of Los Angeles and
Kevin Alvarado
 
RULING: The hearing will be continued.
 
On 8/10/23, Petitioners Angelina Bawaan, by and through
her Guardian Ad Litem, Maria Cruz Perez; David Bawaan, Jr., by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, Marai Cruz Perez; Isaac Bawaan, by and through his Guardian
Ad Litem, Maria Cruz Perez; and Penelope Bawaan, by and through her Guardian Ad
Litem, Maria Cruz Perez filed the instant petition pursuant to Government Code
946.6 seeking an order granting Petitioners relief from the Government Claim
Filing Requirements of Government Code 945.4. 

 
No proof of service for the petition has been filed.  
 
On 9/11/23, the Court set an Order to Show Cause as to
why sanctions should not be imposed for Petitioners’ failure to reserve a
hearing date for 10/11/23.  On 9/14/23,
Petitioners reserved a hearing date for 10/13/23.  
 
Government Code 946.6(d) provides, in relevant part:
 
“A copy of the petition and a
written notice of the time and place of hearing shall be served before the
hearing as prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure on (1) the clerk or
secretary or board of the local public entity, if the respondent is a local
public entity, or (2) the Attorney General, if the respondent is the state. If
the petition involves a claim arising out of alleged actions or inactions of
the Department of Transportation, service of the petition and notice of the
hearing shall be made on the Attorney General or the Director of
Transportation. Service on the Attorney General may be accomplished at any of
the Attorney General's offices in Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Diego, or San
Francisco. Service on the Director of Transportation may be accomplished only
at the Department of Transportation's headquarters office in Sacramento. If the
petition involves a claim arising out of alleged actions or inactions of a
judicial branch entity, service of the petition and notice of the hearing shall
be made in accordance with the following. . .” 
 
There is no evidence before the Court that Petitioners
have served Respondents County of Los Angeles and/or Kevin Alvarado with the
petition or notice of the hearing.  No
response/s to the petition has/have been filed to cure the defect in notice.  
 
Therefore, the hearing will be continued.  
 
 
 
 
 