 Case Number:  23TRCV00017    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 7, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00017
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        John
Doe v. Mason Swan Lewis, et al.  
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
John Doe.  
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Protective Order 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  ARGUE. 
The Court seeks clarification on several issues detailed below. Since Defendant
previously stipulated in writing to allow the MBPD to produce the subject
police report and the report was subsequently produced before the diversion
hearing, is Defendant now asserting that Judge Gilbertson retroactively ordered
the previously produced police report to be sealed?  Should this hearing be continued until the mental
health diversion is completed?  Did Judge
Gilbertson rely on Penal Code sections
851.87, 851.90, 851.91, 1000.4, and 1001.9 for her sealing order even though
none of those sections are expressly identified by the moving party’s evidence
in support of this motion?  What records
besides the police report does Plaintiff seek and that are the subject of the
proposed order for this motion?  The
Court is inclined to grant a protective order as to Defendant’s statements in
the diversion hearing but not to retroactively bar Plaintiff’s use in this civil
case of the already-produced MBPD police report.  Did the Defendant’s cell phone contain still photos
or video of the minor Plaintiff?  Were those
videos used at the diversion hearing and did Judge Gilbertson seal that
evidence?  The Court also notes for
counsel in this case that it is currently engaged in a jury trial where trial
counsel are due back at 10 a.m., so the Court cannot entertain lengthy oral
argument that would extend past around 9:45 a.m. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
January 4, 2023, Plaintiff, John Doe, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem,
John T.R. Doe filed a Complaint against Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis, and DOES 1
through 20. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Invasion of
Privacy; (2) Constructive Invasion of Privacy; (3) Intrusion into Private
Affairs; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Negligence. 
 
The
Complaint is based on the following alleged set of facts: On or about February
6, 2022, Plaintiff JOHN DOE and his father went to the Manhattan Country Club,
of which they are members. After exercising at the club, Plaintiff went to the
men's restroom and entered a stall to use the bathroom. While he was using the
bathroom, Plaintiff noticed that another individual, Defendant, entered the
bathroom and entered the stall directly next to Plaintiffs stall. Shortly
thereafter, JOHN DOE noticed a cell phone slide between the stalls multiple
times, seemingly taking pictures or videos of DOE using the bathroom. Upon
realizing what was happening, Plaintiff exclaimed "Creep!" and heard
LEWIS run out of the bathroom. When Plaintiff exited the bathroom, he spoke
with a club attendant who had seen Defendant flee from the bathroom. Plaintiff
and his father called the Manhattan Beach Police, who responded to the scene
and performed an investigation. Law enforcement confirmed that the perpetrator
was Defendant. Upon executing a search warrant of LEWIS' cell phone, the police
found a number of videos that LEWIS had taken of young men at the club,
including a video of Plaintiff using the bathroom. Plaintiff is informed and
believes that Defendant has been criminally charged for his conduct.
 
 
On
March 1, 2023, Plaintiff issued a deposition subpoena for Production of
Business Records to the MBPD. Plaintiff requested the following records: 
 
"The full investigative report
related to crimes perpetrated by Mason Swan Lewis ... including, but not
limited to the complete incident report (Report No. 22-0000362), any and all
supplemental reports, narratives, statements, transcripts, interview notes,
color photographs, audio or video recordings, electronic data or media files,
etc." (Andrews Deel. ¶ 2 and Exhibit "1" thereto [Subpoena])
 
On
May 31, 2023, this Court granted in part, and denied in part, Defendant’s
motion to quash the subpoena. However, on May 30, 2023, the parties stipulated
to the production of the police report arising from the investigation of the crimes
allegedly committed by Defendant, which stipulation the Court ordered on June
2, 2023.  Per the moving papers, the MBPD
later produced the subject incident report / police report to Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
 
Defendant
now contends that on October 12, 2023, he was granted mental health diversion
pursuant to California Penal Code § 1001.36. Defendant claims in his personal
declaration that the Court issued an oral order sealing all records that were
used in consideration for the diversion – including the law enforcement
records, medical records, and supplemental filings – for the purpose of
preventing disclosure of further use. (Declaration of Mason Swan Lewis (“Lewis
Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Based on this, Defendant now moves for a protective order of the
use of any and all records pursuant to California Penal Code §§ 851.92, 1001.9,
and 1001.36. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On November 1, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion for Protective order. On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On November 30, 2023, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
“When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order.  This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.060(a).” “The court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other
person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.060(b).)  Section 2031.060(b) provides a
nonexclusive list of directions that may be included in a protective order,
including orders directing that the items not be produced or made available or
that the time to respond be extended.  (Ibid.) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Defendant bases his argument on the fact that on October 12, 2023, he
was granted his Motion for Mental Health Diversion pursuant to California Penal
Code § 1001.36, et seq.. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 3.) He claims, pursuant to his own
declaration, that the Court issued an oral order sealing all records that were
used in consideration for the diversion – including the law enforcement
records, medical records, and supplemental filings – for the purpose of
preventing disclosure of further use. He also claims that this oral ruling was
made pursuant to California Penal Code § 1001.36(k). (Lewis Decl., ¶ 4.) California
Penal Code § 1001.36(k) states: 
 
“A finding that the
defendant suffers from a mental disorder, any progress reports concerning the
defendant’s treatment, or any other records related to a mental disorder that
were created as a result of participation in, or completion of, diversion pursuant
to this section or for use at a hearing on the defendant’s eligibility for
diversion under the section may not be used in any other proceeding without the
defendant’s consent, unless that information is relevant evidence that is
admissible under the standards described in paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of
Section 28 of Article I of the California constitution.” 
 
            Defendant’s focus of this
subdivision is the section “…or for use at a hearing on the defendant’s
eligibility for diversion under this section may not be used in any other
proceeding without the defendant’s consent…” (Pen. Code § 1001.36(k).)
Defendant claims that these final procedures are codified in California Penal
Code § 851.92 and apply to any person who successfully completes any form of
diversion. 
 
However,
this Court notes that Penal Code § 851.92, clearly states that it apples when
an arrest record is sealed pursuant to sections 851.87, 851.90, 851.91, 1000.4,
and 1001.9. This is not what is indicated in the Judge Rene C. Gilbertson’s
order, nor are any of these alleged in the moving papers. Judge Gilbertson’s
order states: “The following specified items have been filed under seal of this
Court pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court 2.550 and 2.551: ‘Defendant’s Motion for
Mental Health Diversion (Pen. Code § 1001.36 et. al.); Memorandum of Points and
Authorities; Exhibits A-G’…”   But what
was contained in Exhibits A through G? The Court certainly understands that if
these exhibits may have contained progress reports concerning defendant’s
treatment, or medical records relating to his mental health disorder, that the
Court understands why these records would be filed under seal pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550 and 2.551. However, there is no
indication as to what is in these exhibits, or whether the subject police
report was included among them. 
 
The Court has questions about the content of Defendant’s moving
papers which make it difficult to make a determination on these alone. First,
Defendant assert that the police reports (investigative, arrest, and
supplemental), medical records, pathological reports, and other various
exhibits were used in the hearing that ultimately resulted in the granting of
mental health diversion, and were further confirmed by the District Attorney
reading parts of the police report aloud during the proceedings prior to the
judge’s ruling.  Arguably, Defendant may
not rely on Penal Code § 851.92, as this applies when a diversion program has
been successfully completed, something not alleged by Defendant in this case.
However, the moving papers indicate that the diversion may well be completed in
the near future, which would suggest the Court should continue the hearing on this
motion pending completion of the diversion program. 
 
            Next, the Court takes issue with
Defendant’s declaration asserting that Judge Gilbertson’s oral order was made
pursuant to Penal Code § 1001.36, when the evidence presented notes that her
order for sealing was made pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550
and 2.551. 
 
            The Court also seeks guidance from
Defendant on how an already stipulated police report, where Defendant
previously stated: “There is no objection to the production of the police
report” applies to Penal Code § 1001.36 when consent was already given, and the
document had already been produced. If it is Defendant’s position that Penal
Code § 1001.36 RETROACTIVELY denies consent for already obtained and consented-to
documents? As the Court previously noted in its May 31, 2023 minute order that
it was inclined to order limitation of the disclosure of MBPD records to
counsel only and particularly not to the minor Plaintiff’s father without
further order, and to permit third party discovery as to potential witnesses to
modus operandi evidence while protecting the privacy interests and identities
of other minors. Does the subsequent diversion order change that calculus?