  Case Number:  22STCV16813    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  26 TENTATIVE RULING:
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication of Issues is denied.
The Court finds that there is a material issue of fact and
law whether the Waiver and Release signed by Plaintiff concerning his massage
therapy is enforceable.  Defendant has
not established that, as a matter of law, the circumstances present here bring
the transaction “within . . . the category of those affected with a public
interest” such that the Waiver and Release is unenforceable.  See Tunkl v. The Regents of the University
of California (1963) 60 Cal.2d 92, 98-99. 
The parties have not cited and the Court has not found any published
decision addressing whether an exculpatory provision in a contract for massage
therapy is enforceable.  The case law
indicates that an exculpatory provision in a contract with a fitness center or
SCUBA instructor would likely be enforceable, while one with a hospital or
emergency room would not.  The Court
believes further factual development is required with respect to the present
context of a massage therapist.  
The Court does not agree with Defendant that Plaintiff “does
not contest” the applicability of the Waiver and Release to the general negligence
cause of action.  Plaintiff’s distinction
between “medical malpractice and professional negligence” and “negligence” related
to whether, by its terms, the Waiver and Release, even if enforceable,
extended to the former.  There is no
reason why the Waiver and Release would, as a matter of public policy, be legally
enforceable with respect to general negligence but not with respect to medical
malpractice or professional negligence.  
The Court further finds that there is a material issue of
fact whether Plaintiff suffered injuries caused by Defendants.  The fact that Plaintiff’s X-Rays one week
after the alleged incident were negative in certain respects does not, in light
of the medical evidence submitted by Plaintiff, establish as a matter of law
that Plaintiff suffered no injury as a result of Defendants’ conduct.