  Case Number:  21STCV19845    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant Odalis C. Suarez’s
Motion to Set Aside Order
Cross-defendant
Odalis C. Suarez moves under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 to set aside
the order granting in part the motion to tax costs by cross-complainant In
Action Realtors, Inc. (In Action).  Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides, “The court may, upon
any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  
Courts
liberally apply this provision for discretionary relief.  “Because
the law favors disposing of cases on their merits, ‘any doubts in applying
section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.’ ”  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)  “Where the
mistake is excusable and the party seeking relief has been diligent, courts
have often granted relief pursuant to the discretionary relief provision of
section 473 if no prejudice to the opposing party will ensue.”  (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group,
Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258.) 
“In such cases, the law ‘looks with [particular] disfavor on a party
who, regardless of the merits of his cause, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.’ ”  (Ibid.)
On July 24, 2024, the court granted
in part In Action’s motion to tax Suarez’s memorandum of costs.  Suarez adequately shows that order resulted, in
part, from her mistake or excusable neglect. 
In its minute order, the court found Suarez did not submit any admissible
evidence of the costs she incurred.  Suarez’s
declaration in support of this motion states, “After receiving In Action’s reply, I realized there was an error in our
opposition that I had inadvertently failed to attach the supporting documents
to the memorandum of cost on Exhibit 6 to the opposition an exhibit to my
declaration.”  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 3.)  
Suarez also shows she acted with reasonable diligence in
seeking relief.  She testifies, “On July
19, 2024 and prior to the hearing of this matter I attempted to file an errata
to the opposition, however the court-approved electronic service provider was
not functional.”  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 3.)  She and her counsel also unsuccessfully attempted
to attend the hearing on July 24 via LA Court Connect.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  The court takes judicial notice of the fact
that a cyberattack on the court on July 19 greatly interfered with court
systems beginning that day and continuing for several days after.  Suarez then filed this motion on July
30.  Suarez’s mistake in not submitting
the evidence did not prejudice In Action. 
It had ample time to respond to Suarez’s new evidence when opposing this
motion.  
The court therefore will vacate its order granting In
Action’s motion to tax costs and reconsider the order after accounting for Suarez’s
additional evidence.  “ ‘If the items on a verified
cost bill appear proper charges, they are prima facie evidence that the costs,
expenses and services therein listed were necessarily incurred.’ ”  (Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)  After
an adverse party moves to strike or tax the “memorandum of costs, the burden
shift[s] to” the prevailing party “to prove his costs.”  (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1265.)  “Once costs
claimed in the memorandum are challenged via a motion to tax, ‘[d]ocumentation
must be submitted’ to sustain the burden.” 
(Ibid.)
Suarez now submits admissible evidence detailing the costs
she incurred.  (Suarez Decl., Ex. C.)  Suarez meets her burden of showing all
$10,618.03 in costs claimed via her memorandum of costs were recoverable.  In its motion to tax costs, In Action argued many
of Suarez’s costs were not properly attributed to her role in defending against In
Action’s cross-complaint, as opposed to bringing her cross-complaint against
Korb and Tyler or other roles Suarez plays in this litigation.  Suarez only became a party to this action
because In Action filed a cross-complaint against her.  The costs she claimed in her memorandum of
costs were reasonably necessary for defending herself from the cross-complaint.
Disposition
Cross-defendant
Odalis C. Suarez’s motion to set aside order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure 473 is granted.  The court hereby sets
aside its order granting in part cross-complainant In
Action Realtors, Inc.’s motion to strike or tax costs on July 24, 2024.  The court hereby denies
cross-complainant In Action Realtors, Inc.’s motion to strike or tax
costs.  Cross-defendant Odalis C. Suarez
shall recover $10,618.03 in costs from cross-complainant In Action Realtors,
Inc.
 