 Case Number:  24STCV14276    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Earthly Treats, Inc.’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Defendant Earthly Treats, Inc. d/b/a Our
Home moves for judgment on the pleadings on plaintiff Simon Oh’s complaint.  The complaint alleges two causes of action:
(1) common law fraud, and (2) violation of the California Consumer Legal
Remedies Act.  Both causes of action
arise from allegations that defendant deceptively sells its product, sweet
potato tortilla chips, “in oversized packaging” (Comp., ¶ 1) with “substantial
non-functional slack fill inside the package” (¶ 3).  Plaintiff alleges the “actual product only
occupies approximately 20% of the exterior space represented by the package.”  (Ibid.)  
Deception
Defendant argues plaintiff fails to allege
facts showing he was deceived or misled by the product’s packaging because the
packaging specifically states the product’s net weight and serving size both in
grams and in approximate number of chips. 
Defendant also argues “it is obvious there is space inside the bag” such
that a consumer cannot reasonably be deceived by the packaging.  (Memo, p. 7.) 

The court cannot conclude that, as a
matter of law, the product’s packaging is not likely to deceive consumers.  “Whether a practice is deceptive, fraudulent,
or unfair is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration and
weighing of evidence from both sides” and which usually cannot be made on’ ”
the pleadings.  (Linear Technology
Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 134–135.)  “ ‘[W]hether consumers are likely to be
deceived is’ typically ‘a question of fact’ ” but the “issue may be resolved on
demurrer if ‘the facts alleged fail as a matter of law to show’ that a ‘reasonable
consumer would be misled.’ ”  (Shaeffer
v. Califia Farms, LLC (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1140 (Shaeffer).)  
Shaeffer described a
spectrum of potentially deceptive business practices, ranging from: (1) “statements
a business affirmatively makes about its product on its label that are untrue”
(44 Cal.App.5th at p. 1137), (2) statements on the “label that are ‘literally
true’ [but] nevertheless deceptive and misleading in [their] implications’
” (id. at p. 1138, alterations and italics in original), (3) statements
“about comparable, competing products that are false and that imply that the
product at issue is superior to its competition” (ibid.), to (4) “truthful
statement[s] about” the product that “are not actionable as a matter of law” (id.
at p. 1139).  Excessive package size does
not fit neatly into this framework because it is not a statement at all.  
Plaintiff’s theory is that package size is
an implied statement that misleads consumers despite the package’s true
statements about its contents.  The court
of appeal has noted, “Very often package size suggests the size of the item
housed therein: a big package implies big contents.”  (Hobby Industry Assn. of America, Inc. v.
Younger (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 358, 367.) 
  
The parties agree there is no binding authority
on whether a large package that expressly identifies the relatively small size
or weight of the contents can nevertheless mislead consumers.  The parties
cite many federal cases pointing both directions.  Defendant cites, for example, Buso v. ACH
Food Companies, Inc. (S.D. Cal. 2020) 445 F.Supp.3d 1033 (Buso), where the court granted a motion to dismiss.  The court ruled, “[I]t is unreasonable for a
customer to be deceived as to the amount of product contained in [defendant’s]
cornbread mix box.  It is undisputed that
the cornbread mix package discloses the product’s net weight and the
approximate number of servings per container” and “indicates that the box
contains enough cornmeal mix to make ‘one 8-in square “loaf” of cornbread or 12
standard cornbread muffins.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1038.)  The court
reasoned, “Not only is the net weight of the product displayed, consumers are
clearly put on notice as to the rough estimate of cornbread that can be made
from the product contained within the box.” 
(Ibid.)
On the other
hand, plaintiff cites authority including Coleman v. Mondelez International
Inc.
(C.D. Cal. 2021) 554 F.Supp.3d 1055 (Coleman).  There, the court found it “ ‘at least plausible that a consumer could be deceived
by a package filled with [58%] air, regardless of whether the number of
[Swedish Fish] in the package is displayed on the ingredient list.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1064, alterations in
original.)  The court also described a
prior case as ruling that “allegations of deceptive opaque packaging were
sufficient to survive a motion to dismiss even where net weight and quantity of
[food] were accurately and prominently disclosed.”  (Ibid.)  
The court finds Coleman more persuasive than Buso and similar cases finding the plaintiff’s
allegations insufficient.  The court
cannot necessarily rely on the federal authorities favoring defendants because
federal court has a higher standard of pleading.  The claims must be “plausible,” which
requires the plaintiff to “plead[] factual content that allows the court to
draw the reasonable inference that the defendant is liable for the misconduct
alleged.”  (Ashcroft v. Iqbal
(2009) 556 U.S. 662, 678.)  California
civil procedure has no such plausibility requirement for pleading.  (Thomas v. Regents of University of
California (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 618, fn. 12.)  The court must accept factual allegations as
true regardless of whether the court finds them plausible.  (Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018)
26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [on demurrer, “the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) 
Defendant also cites
authority distinguishing countable products from other products.  “[S]everal district courts have found that
where the package itself discloses the actual unit counts, a ‘reasonable
consumer’ could not be misled.”  (Buso, supra, 445 F.Supp.3d 1033 at p. 1038.)  Coleman, however, cited multiple cases finding it
plausible that a large package could deceive consumers even when it specifies
the number of countable products inside.  (Coleman,
supra, 554 F.Supp.3d at p. 1064.)  
Here, the
statement that the package contains approximately 60 chips (RJN, Ex. A [5
servings of 12 chips per serving]) does not necessarily dispel all potential
deception.  As plaintiff notes, the front
of the package shows an “enlarged” image of a chip.  (Comp., ¶ 3; RJN, Ex. A.)  From this packaging, it may not be obvious to
consumers how much food 60 oval-shaped “sweet potato tortilla chips” amounts
to.    
Defendant’s
papers illustrate why this cannot be resolved on the pleadings.  Its reply brief argues, “Plaintiff fails to
cite any case in which a court ever allowed a case to proceed beyond the
pleadings where the plaintiff claimed to be fooled by a bag of chips that was
not filled to the brim.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  As Shaeffer put it, whether consumers are likely to be
deceived should be analyzed on a spectrum. 
In the context of package size, the relevant spectrum ranges from “filled
to the brim” to completely empty.  The
emptier the package, the more likely it is to deceive consumers.  There is no precise line between fair and
deceptive package size.  Plaintiff’s complaint
alleges the package was only approximately 20% full and includes a photo that
appears consistent with that allegation.  (Comp., ¶ 3.) 
The court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, the packaging was
not likely to mislead consumers.  Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts to permit a reasonable trier of fact to conclude the
packaging was likely to mislead consumers. 
Reliance
            Defendant argues plaintiff has not
adequately alleged he relied on the size of the packaging or that his reliance
caused any damages.  Defendant argues he
fails to do so because of the following allegation: “Plaintiff had dual
motivations for purchasing the product.  First, Plaintiff is a consumer rights ‘tester’
who creates public benefit by ensuring that companies comply with their
obligations under California law.  Second,
Plaintiff was genuinely interested in consuming and enjoying the product, and
did so – with disappointment that the package was mostly empty.”  (Comp., ¶ 17.)  
            Defendant relies primarily on Buckland
v. Threshold Enterprises, Ltd. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 798 (Buckland).  There, the court held plaintiff “has not
pleaded reliance” as required for fraud claims. 
(Id. at p. 807.)  The plaintiff
submitted a declaration in support of a motion for preliminary injunction
stating, “I am acting in this litigation to evaluate, as an individual
consumer, these defendants’ respective products, incurring the cost of
purchasing each of these products in order to meet the letter of the law to
have standing to make appropriate claims regarding these products where the
facts and law warrant, and thereby incurring the economic damages that provide
standing under the statutes by which I am proceeding in the case.”  (Id. at pp. 804-805.)  The court noted she “never alleges she used
any specified respondent’s product.” 
(Id. at p. 814, fn. 7.)  
The court reasoned that plaintiff “concedes
she suspected respondents’ packaging and marketing was false or misleading, and
she bought respondents’ products solely to pursue litigation upon the
vindication of her suspicions.  She
therefore lacked the requisite confidence in the truth and material
completeness of their representations, and cannot establish actual reliance for
the purpose of her fraud claims.”  (Buckland,
supra, 155 Cal.App.4th at pp. 808-809.)
In contrast, plaintiff does not allege he
bought the chips solely to pursue litigation.  He alleges “dual motivations”: both as a
tester and a consumer.  (Comp., ¶ 17.)  He alleges he did use the product: he “was
genuinely interested in consuming and enjoying the product, and did so – with
disappointment that the package was mostly empty.”  (Ibid.)  That plaintiff ate the chips makes this case
significantly different from Buckland.  
Persuasive
federal authority has also permitted this “dual motivation” theory.  In Ibarra v. Pharmagenics LLC
(C.D. Cal. 2023) 660 F.Supp.3d 914, 922, the court ruled, “In addition to ‘testing’
the product, Ibarra ‘was genuinely interested in using the product as directed
and obtaining the promised results, and [his] desire to obtain the advertised
benefits of the [p]roduct was a substantial, meaningful factor in Plaintiff’s
decision to purchase the product.’ 
[Citation.]  There is nothing
facially implausible about Ibarra’s dual motives—consumers are allowed to have
multiple reasons behind their purchasing decisions.”  
Non-Functional
Space
            Defendant contends plaintiff has not
adequately alleged facts showing the space in the chips’ packaging is not
functional.  Business and Professions
Code section 12606.2 permits some forms of slack-fill, which may be used as “
‘safe harbor’ ” for defendants.  (Buso,
supra, 445 F.Supp.3d at p. 1040.)  “District
courts in California are split as to whether the safe harbor provisions are
affirmative defenses or ‘or whether their inapplicability is an element that
must be pled.’ ”  (Stewart v. Kodiak
Cakes, LLC (S.D. Cal. 2021) 537 F.Supp.3d 1103, 1154.)  
Assuming plaintiff must allege facts
showing the safe harbor provisions do not apply, he adequately does so.  Defendant objects that plaintiff merely makes
conclusory allegations that none of the provisions apply.  (Comp., ¶¶ 20-29.)  Plaintiff alleges the key fact: the bags are
80% empty.  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Even under the heightened federal standard of
pleading, it is plausible that a package of chips whose contents occupy only
80% of the bag contains non-functional slack-fill.  
Defendant cites numerous cases, none of
which include allegations of anywhere near 80% slack-fill.  (Jackson v. General Mills, Inc. (S.D.
Cal., Aug. 28, 2020, No. 18CV2634-LAB (BGS)) 2020 WL 5106652, at *1 [“the box
was between 30% and 50% empty”]; Daniel v. Tootsie Roll Industries, LLC
(S.D.N.Y., Aug. 1, 2018, No. 17 CIV. 7541 (NRB)) 2018 WL 3650015, at *1 [37% to
43%] Bush v. Mondelez International, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Oct. 7, 2016, No.
16-CV-02460-RS) 2016 WL 5886886, at *1 [vague allegation of “empty space at the
top” of package].)  A reasonable trier of
fact could conclude that filling the bags to, say, 35% instead of 20% full,
would make no functional difference. 
Standing
for Injunctive Relief
            Finally,
defendant argues plaintiff lacks standing for injunctive relief.  That is not a proper subject for judgment on
the pleadings.  “ ‘A motion for judgment
on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer.’ ”  (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.)   “[A] demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained
to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.”  (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047.)  
Plaintiff
does not purport to assert a cause of action for injunctive relief.  “Injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause
of action.”  (Allen v. City of
Sacramento (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 41, 65.) 
Defendant may not move for judgment on the pleadings as to the remedy of
injunctive relief.
Disposition
            Defendant Earthly Treats, Inc.’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings is denied.