 Case Number:  24STCV01738    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Maribel S. Medina’s 4 Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses
(1) Interrogatories to LACCD
            Plaintiff
Maribel S. Medina moves to compel further responses by defendant Los Angeles
Community College District (LACCD) to form interrogatories – employment, No.
217.1, and special interrogatories Nos. 1,
2, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 21, and 22.  A
party may move to compel further responses to interrogatories when an answer
“is evasive or incomplete” (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)) or an objection “is without
merit or too general” (id.,
subd. (a)(3)).
A. Official Information Privilege
            LACCD
made meritless objections to special interrogatories Nos. 15 and 16.  No. 15 asks LACCD to identify “each person
who provided any information which was considered in reaching the decision to
place PLAINTIFF on leave.”  No. 16 asks
LACCD to identify all documents “considered in making the decision to place
PLAINTIFF on leave.”  LACCD responded: “Other
than as stated in the letter attached as Exhibit ‘A,’ the facts supporting the
reasons for placing Plaintiff on leave, and the sources thereof, are the
subject of an ongoing investigation, and are subject to the official
information privilege set forth at Evidence Code Section 1040.  …  Subject
to and without waiving these objections, and given the confidential and/or
privileged nature of the information at issue and its potential misuse,
Responding Party may provide the requested information subject to an
appropriate protective order.”
            LACCD
does not meet its burden of showing the information plaintiff seeks is
protected by the official information privilege.  Generally, after the requesting party moves
to compel further responses, the responding party bears the burden of
justifying its objections.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 417, 441.)  
            The official information privilege protects
“information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his
or her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the
time the claim of privilege is made.”  (Evid.
Code, § 1040, subd. (a).)  It provides an
absolute privilege when “[d]isclosure is forbidden by” statute (id.,
subd. (b)(1)) and a conditional privilege when “there is a necessity for
preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the necessity
for disclosure in the interest of justice” (id., subd. (b)(2)). 
LACCD does not show that answering these interrogatories would violate
the absolute privilege.  It argues, “As reflected in the Notice of
Discontinuation of Services (Johnson Decl., Ex. A; Diaz Decl., Ex. K), some of
the information at issue is from closed sessions of the LACCD Board of
Trustees, which is protected by the absolute privilege of Section 1040.”  (Opp., p. 9.) 
Aside from this sentence, LACCD gives no explanation of how any part of
the answers to these interrogatories would require disclosing information for
which a statute prohibits disclosure. 
The notice of discontinuation of services is exhibit 2 to the
declaration of Maria G. Diaz.  It is 12
pages long.  The document only mentions
closed sessions twice: first, it asserts plaintiff failed to give appropriate
advice “regarding the disclosure of closed session information to inappropriate
parties” when someone complained about a Trustee leaking information to the
press (Diaz Decl., Ex. 2, p. 6); and second, it asserts plaintiff “put an
action before the Board of Trustees pursuing the termination of Howard Irvin in
a closed session vote” (id., p. 9). 
Nothing in the record indicates that answering special interrogatories
Nos. 15 and 16 would require disclosing information that is absolutely
privileged under Evidence Code section 1040(b)(1).  
LACCD
also does not meet its burden of showing the conditional privilege
applies.  For this privilege, the public
entity bears “the
threshold burden of showing that the information was acquired in confidence.”  (Marylander v. Superior Court (2000)
81 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1126.)  If so, the
court must then “weigh the interests and … sustain the privilege only if
‘ “there is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality of the information
that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice.” ’ ”  (Ibid.)  
LACCD
asserts, “[T]he information confidential reports of unprofessional conduct and
abusive behavior by LACCD employees, attorney-client privileged communications
between Plaintiff and LACCD administrators and staff,” among other things.  (Opp., p. 9.) 
But LACCD again only generally cites the entire 12-page Notice of
Discontinuation of Services.  A trial court has “ha[s] no obligation to
undertake its own search of the record ‘backwards and forwards to try to figure
out how the law applies to the facts’ of the case.”  (Quantum Cooking Concepts, Inc. v. LV
Associates, Inc. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 927, 934.)  The record does not establish the information
LACCD seeks to protect was acquired in confidence or that the need to preserve
confidentiality outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interests of
justice.
LACCD’s
objections to special interrogatories Nos. 15 and 16 are overruled.
B. Contact Information
            LACCD
gave incomplete responses and made meritless objections to the other disputed
interrogatories, which ask LACCD to give the names, addresses, and phone
numbers of various witnesses.  Several of
LACCD’s answers include lists of multiple names followed by the statement that
those people’s “contact information is 770 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA
90017-3896; 213-891-2000.”  Giving the address
and the phone number for the entire agency, rather than for the individuals
identified, is evasive.  
            LACCD’s
privacy objection is not valid.  “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting
party shows all three elements, then the court must balance the need for
disclosure against the right to privacy. 
(Ibid.)  The court must
also consider “the availability of alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
Assuming LACCD establishes all three elements,
plaintiff’s need for disclosure outweighs the witnesses’ privacy rights.  Generally, “[t]he disclosure of the names and
addresses of potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial
discovery.” (Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at pp. 543-544, internal quotes
omitted.)  Plaintiff should not have to
rely on LACCD’s claim that it will make all witnesses—particularly those whom
it acknowledges are no longer employees—available to her.  Moreover, a protective order will adequately mitigate
the intrusion. 
LACCD’s objections to form interrogatory –
employment No. 217.1 and special interrogatories Nos. 1, 2, 9, 10, 15,
16, 17, 21, and 22 are overruled. 
The court will require LACCD to provide further responses subject to a
protective order.
Although LACCD
must provide plaintiff with the contact information of certain current LACCD employees
who are witnesses, plaintiff’s counsel is not relieved of their obligation to
deal with these witnesses with courtesy and civility.  (Guidelines of Civility in Litigation, Local
Rules, Appendix 3A, Rule 3A(l).)  For
example, plaintiff’s counsel should first attempt to schedule depositions of
these witnesses through LACCD’s counsel before directly contacting the
witnesses.  
(2-4) Requests for Production to
LACCD, Rodriguez, and Veres
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses by defendants LACCD, Francisco C. Rodriguez,
and Steven F. Veres to numerous requests for production.  A party propounding requests for production may move
to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or
too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
A. The Responses
            Defendants
gave inadequate statements of compliance.  To the disputed requests, defendants
responded, “Responding Party will produce responsive, non-privileged documents
that are in [its/his] possession, custody, or control.”  A
statement of compliance must state that “all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.”  (CCP § 2031.220.)  Defendants’ responses omit the crucial word “all.”  A statement of compliance must include that
because it states under oath not only that the responding party will produce response
documents, but also that the responding party is not withholding any responsive
documents.  
Furthermore, responding
that defendants “will produce responsive, non-privileged documents” improperly
seeks to give themselves license to withhold documents without making a
specific objection or identifying the documents withheld.  When the responding party withholds
responsive documents based on an objection, it must “[i]dentify with
particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored
information falling within any category of item in the demand to which an
objection is being made.”  (CCP §
2031.240(b)(1).)  If they object based on
privilege or attorney work product, the response must also “provide sufficient
factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of” these
objections, “including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)  If defendants withhold documents they claim
are privileged, they must identify those documents, specify the basis for the
privilege, and provide enough information to permit plaintiff to evaluate the
claims of privilege.  
B. Delay in Production
Plaintiff also argues
defendants improperly refused to produce documents by the date specified in the
demand and instead unilaterally insisted on a “rolling production” with no
deadline.  Producing all documents on the
date specified may be impractical, but plaintiff correctly notes the Civil
Discovery Act expressly doing so.  (CCP §
2031.280(b).)         
Sanctions
            In each motion, plaintiff moves for monetary sanctions
against defendants.  The court must
impose monetary sanctions against a party who unsuccessfully opposes a motion
to compel further discovery responses “unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h).) 
Defendants unsuccessfully opposed these motions, but they acted with
substantial justification.  They made
reasonable arguments in support of their position and, before plaintiff filed
this motion, attempted to negotiate a protective order.  No sanctions are appropriate.            
Disposition
            The parties are ordered to meet and confer
by telephone, videoconference, or in person within seven days regarding a
stipulated protective order based on this court’s model protective order.  All further responses ordered below shall be
subject to a protective order.
Plaintiff Maribel
S. Medina’s motion to compel further responses from defendant Los Angeles
Community College District to interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Los Angeles Community College
District is ordered to serve further verified responses without objections to
form interrogatory – employment No. 217.1 and special interrogatories Nos. 1, 2, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 21, and 22 within
30 days. 
Plaintiff Maribel
S. Medina’s motion to compel further responses from defendant Los Angeles
Community College District to requests for production is granted.  Defendant Los Angeles Community College
District is ordered to serve a privilege log and further verified responses to
requests for production Nos. 1, 2, 4,
6-14, 21-27, 30-34, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50-55, 57-80, 82, 83, 86, 87,
88, 89, 90, 92, and 93 within 30 days.  Defendant
shall produce any additional responsive documents concurrently with its written
responses.
Plaintiff Maribel
S. Medina’s motion to compel further responses from defendant Francisco C.
Rodriguez to requests for production is granted.  Defendant Francisco C. Rodriguez is ordered to serve a privilege log and further verified
responses to requests for production Nos. 1, 2, 28, 30, 34, 35, 37, 38, 40, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 59, 62, 67,
68, 70, 72, 73, 79, 82, 83, 85, 86, 88, 90, 91, 92, 93, and 98 within 30
days.  Defendant shall produce any
additional responsive documents concurrently with his written responses.
Plaintiff Maribel
S. Medina’s motion to compel further responses from defendant Steven F. Veres
to requests for production is granted.  Defendant Steven F. Veres is ordered to serve a privilege log and further verified
responses to requests for production Nos. 1, 2, 42, and 47 within 30 days. 
Defendant shall produce any additional responsive documents
concurrently with his written responses.