  Case Number:  23STCV05596    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 6, 2025                     TRIAL DATE:  January
12, 2026
                                                           
CASE:                         Fredrick Smith v. Clearpath Federal Credit Union
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV05596
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE 
ALTERNATIVE
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Clearpath Federal Credit Union
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a wrongful termination case.  Fredrick Smith (Plaintiff) brings causes of
action against his former employer Clearpath Federal Credit Union (Defendant)
for (1) Disability Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (2) Failure to Provide
Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of FEHA, (3) Failure to Engage in Good
Faith Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA, (4) Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (5)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, (6) Failure to Timely Pay
All Wages, and (7) Unfair Competition. 
As alleged in the Complaint, Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff because
of a disability related to contracting COVID-19 and back pain.  Plaintiff requested medical leave which Defendant
approved.  In April 2021, Defendant
informed Plaintiff his leave would not be extended, and he was terminated.
 
On January 5, 2024, the court relieved Plaintiff’s counsel
as attorney of record.  Plaintiff is
self-represented.
 
On February 14, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with
Requests for Admission, Set One.  No
responses were served.  
 
On August 12, 2024, the court granted Defendant’s Motion to
Deem the Requests for Admission Admitted. 

 
On October 11, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
When reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿¿A motion for summary
judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).)¿
A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there
is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A
moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause
of action.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿¿ 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of
evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿¿ 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff
opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more triable
issues of material fact exist as to the challenged element. (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿¿ 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿
[Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants conclusively negated
a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial?”¿ (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853,
860, internal citation omitted.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840;
see also Weiss v. People ex rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)¿¿ 
A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the
granting of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.54(c).)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication, because Plaintiff cannot raise a material issue of fact
as to each cause of action following the deemed admissions by Plaintiff.  For the reasons stated herein, Defendant is
entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law. 
 
A.   
Disability Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA (1st Cause of Action)
 
FEHA discrimination claims are
subject to the McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting analysis.  (Sandell
v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297 (Sandell).)  
 
In
the context of disability discrimination, the plaintiff has the initial burden
to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. The plaintiff can meet this
burden by presenting evidence that demonstrates, even circumstantially or by
inference, that he or she (1) suffered from a disability, or was regarded as
suffering from a disability; (2) could perform the essential duties of the job
with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse
employment action because of the disability or perceived disability. To
establish a prima facie case, a plaintiff must show actions taken by the
employer from which one can infer, if such actions remain unexplained, that it
is more likely than not that such actions were based on a [prohibited]
discriminatory criterion.... The prima facie burden is light; the evidence
necessary to sustain the burden is minimal.  (Sandell, 188
Cal.App.4th at p. 310 (cleaned up).)  
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of disability
discrimination.  In support, Defendant
submits the following undisputed facts:  Plaintiff
has no facts to support the allegations contained in the Complaint (Defendant’s
Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 1);
Plaintiff has no documents to support the allegations in the
Complaint (UMF 2); Clearpath Federal Credit Union did not discriminate against
plaintiff (UMF 3); Clearpath Federal Credit Union did not subject plaintiff to
any adverse employment action related to his employment (UMF 4); Plaintiff’s
disability was not a substantial motivating factor for any disciplinary action
taken against him by Clearpath Federal Credit Union (UMF 5). 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant prevails.  Plaintiff
has not made a prima facie showing.  Plaintiff
did not file an opposition. 
 
B.    
Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodations in Violation of FEHA (2nd Cause of Action) 
 
“There are three elements to a failure to accommodate
action: ‘(1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the
plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the essential
functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”  (CACI No. 2541; Hernandez v. Rancho
Santiago Cmty. College Dist. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1187, 1193-1194. 
 
            Defendant
attacks the second and third element.  In
support, Defendant submits the following undisputed facts: Plaintiff was unable
to perform the essential employment duties at Clearpath Federal Credit Union
with reasonable accommodation (UMF 9); Plaintiff was unable to perform the
essential employment duties at Clearpath Federal Credit Union without
reasonable accommodation (UMF 10).
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
C.    
Failure to Engage in Good Faith
Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA (3rd Cause of Action)
 
FEHA requires employers to engage in a good faith interactive process to determine
effective reasonable accommodations, if any, “in response to a request for
reasonable accommodation by an employee . . . with a known physical or mental
disability . . . .”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); Raine v. City of
Burbank (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222.)¿ To establish a claim for
failure to engage in the interactive process, a plaintiff must show: (1) defendant was an
employer; (2) plaintiff was defendant’s employee; (3) plaintiff was disabled;
(4) plaintiff requested reasonable accommodation; (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in a timely good faith interactive process with plaintiff to determine whether a
reasonable accommodation could be made; (6) defendant failed to participate in
this process; (7) plaintiff was harmed; and (8) defendant’s failure to engage
in a good-faith interactive process was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.¿ (CACI No. 2546.)¿ 
 
            Defendant
attacks the fifth and sixth elements.  In
support, Defendant submits undisputed facts: Clearpath Federal Credit Union
participated in the interactive process with Plaintiff to determine whether a
reasonable accommodation could be made for Plaintiff to perform the essential
job requirements (UMF 17); Plaintiff failed to participate in timely, good
faith interactive process with Clearpath Federal Credit Union to determine
whether a reasonable accommodation could be made for Plaintiff to perform the
essential job requirements (UMF 18).
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
D.   
Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (4th Cause of
Action)
 
A cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination or
retaliation requires the following elements: (1) plaintiff was an employee of
defendant; (2) plaintiff was subjected to discrimination/retaliation in the
course of employment; (3) defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to
prevent the discrimination/retaliation; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5)
defendant’s failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent
discrimination/retaliation was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.¿ (CACI No. 2527; Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 1390, 1410.)¿ “The employer’s duty to prevent discrimination and
retaliation is affirmative and mandatory.”¿ (Northrop Grumman Corp. v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1021, 1035.)¿
 
Defendant attacks the third element.  In support, Defendant submits the following
undisputed facts: Clearpath Federal Credit Union took all reasonable steps to
prevent harassment based on Plaintiff’s disability (UMF 19);  Clearpath Federal Credit Union took all
reasonable steps to prevent discrimination based on Plaintiff’s disability (UMF
20); Clearpath Federal Credit Union took all reasonable steps to prevent retaliation
based on Plaintiff’s disability (UMF 21).
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
E.    
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy (5th Cause of Action)
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the
employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.”  (CACI No. 2430; Garcia-Brower v. Premier Automotive Imports of CA, LLC
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 961, 973.)   
 
            Defendant
attacks the third element.  In support,
Defendant submits the following undisputed fact: Clearpath Federal Credit
Union’s termination of Plaintiff’s employment was not in violation of public
policy.  (UMF 22.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
F.     
Failure to Timely Pay All Wages (6th
Cause of Action)
 
If
an employer discharges an employee, an employee’s wages earned and unpaid are
due and payable immediately, or no later than 72 hours thereafter if the
employee does not have a written contract for a definite period.  (Lab.
Code, §§ 201,
subd. (a).)
 
Defendant
argues there is no triable issue of material fact.  In support, Defendant submits the following
undisputed facts: Clearpath Federal Credit Union does not owe Plaintiff unpaid
wages (UMF 25); Plaintiff has been compensated by Clearpath Federal Credit
Union for all wages owed under the terms of employment (UMF 26).  
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
G.   
Unfair Competition (7th
Cause of Action)
The Unfair Competition Law (UCL) is codified at Business
and Professions Code, section 17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL states
that a private person “who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of the unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿ (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17204.)¿ “To bring a UCL claim, a
plaintiff must show either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act
or practice, or (2) unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.
[Citation.]¿ Because the UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes
three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or
unfair, or fraudulent.”¿ (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and quotations omitted.)¿ 
Defendant
argues there is no triable issue of material fact.  In support, Defendant submits the following
undisputed facts: Clearpath Federal Credit Union did
not engage in any unfair business practice during Plaintiff’s employment (UMF
27); Clearpath Federal Credit Union did not engage in any unlawful business practice
during Plaintiff’s employment (UMF 28); Clearpath Federal Credit Union did not
engage in any fraudulent business practice during his employment (UMF 29).
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant meets its initial summary
judgment burden. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material facts.¿ (See Scalf, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1519.)¿
Plaintiff has not filed opposition. 
 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
Accordingly, Defendant Clearpath Federal Credit Union’s unopposed
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to file a proposed judgment within ten
(10) days of this order. 
Defendant to give notice. 
            Counsel to
give notice.  


Dated:   January 6, 2025                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 