  Case Number:  20STCV38914¿    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, October 30, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   20STCV38914¿
CASE NAME:                        Emsaffa Corporation,
a Delaware Corporation v. Steven Powers, as trustee under Amended and Restated
Trust Agreement for R.E.I. 401(k) Trust entered into December 29, 2009 and
effective as of January 1, 2009, et al.¿
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Ahmad M.
Alomani and Markab Capital General Trading Co. SPC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainant Marquez Pacific
View, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Third Amended Cross-Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        17 October 2024
REPLY:                                  23
October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         The demurrer to the
seventh, eighth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action is overruled. The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. The
motion to strike is denied as Defendant Alomani and granted with leave to amend
as to Defendant Markab. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend. The court
sets a Non-Appearance OSC RE: Filing of Amended Complaint for November 25,
2024, at 8:30 a.m. Moving Party to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This is an action for
quiet title arising in connection with various properties with APN numbers
4419-015-196, 4419-015-197, 4419-015-022 and 4419-015-026 (the “Properties”).
Plaintiff Emsaffa Corporation (“Emsaffa”) alleges that Defendants, Steven
Powers, as trustee under Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for R.E.I. 401(k)
Trust entered into December 29, 2009, and effective as of January 1, 2009
(“Powers”), Marcos Vivian (“Vivian”) and Marquez Pacific View, LLC (“MPV”) each
claim an interest in the Properties. Emsaffa alleges that because it is the
lender and beneficiary of the Properties, it holds a Deed of Trust secured by
the Properties and now seeks to secure that interest.¿¿ 
 
Emsaffa’s Complaint
alleges two causes of action: (1) quiet title, (2) declaratory relief.¿¿ 
 
On January 20, 2021,
Marquez filed a Cross-Complaint against Emsaffa and Cross-Defendants, Ahmad M.
Alomani (“Alomani”), Vicino Limited Partnership (“Vicino”), Markab Capital
Will, a Kuwait Company (“Markab”). According to the Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Defendants, who are lenders and investors, have allegedly implemented a
scheme to obtain property owned by Marquez by preventing Marquez from redeeming
on the loan, charging usurious interest and conducting other improper lending
practices.¿
 
On February 13, 2024,
Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab’s demurrer to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint was sustained. On March 14, 2024, Cross-Complainant MPV filed
the Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”). The SACC alleges eleven causes of
action: 1) Declaratory Relief as to the existence of usury and amount due on
usurious contract against Emsaffa, (2) Declaratory Relief as to the 18% default
interest rate against Emsaffa, (3) Declaratory Relief as to other amounts
demanded by Emsaffa, (4) Declaratory Relief as to notice of default against
Emsaffa, (5) Cancellation of Instrument against Emsaffa, (6) Breach of Contract
against Emsaffa, (7) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations against all Cross-Defendants, (8) Negligent interference with
Prospective Economic Relations against Alomani and Markab, (9) Intentional
Interference with Economic Relations against Alomani and Markab, (10) Fraud
against all Cross-Defendants, and (11) Unfair, Unlawful and Fraudulent Business
Acts and Practices against all Cross-Defendants.¿¿ 
 
On June 13, 2024, the
court sustained Cross-Defendants Alomani and Markab’s demurrer to the SACC with
leave to amend. 
 
On July 24, 2024,
Cross-Complainant MPV filed the operative Third Amended Cross-Complaint
(“TACC”) alleging the same eleven causes of action as the SACC. 
 
Defendants Alomani and
Markab again demurrer to the TACC. Cross-Complainant opposes the Motion. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 B.       Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Request for Judicial Notice 
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking
judicial notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its
contents or accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Cross-Defendants Alomani and
Markab request judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit A:
NOTICE OF DEFAULT AND ELECTION TO SELL UNDER DEED OF TRUST,
which was recorded in the official records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office on December 14, 2018, as Instrument No.: 2018126888. 
 
2)    
Exhibit B:
ASSIGNMENT OF DEED OF TRUST, which was recorded in the
official records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on October 25,
2019, as Instrument No.: 20191147840. 
 
Cross-Defendants’ request for
judicial notice is granted. 
 
II.        Discussion
 
A.        Summary of Allegations
 
Cross-Defendants Alomani and
Markab demurrer to the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh cause of
action on the basis that such claims lack sufficient facts to state a cause of
action and are uncertain, vague, and ambiguous. (CCP § 430.10(e) and (f).) 
 
The TACC alleges that on or
about August 5, 2015, MPV borrowed d $1,600,000.00 from Cross-Defendant Vicino,
pursuant to a Promissory Note Secured by Deed of Trust (the “Promissory Note”
or “Loan”). (TACC, ¶ 10, Ex. A.) The Promissory Note had an interest rate of
12% and other terms which MPV asserts is unsurious under California law. (Id.,
¶¶ 15-19.) Vicino and MPV entered four loan modifications, each extending the
maturity date of the loan and the loan balance due. (Id., ¶ 22.) Under
the third load modification, Vicino failed to fully disperse the $624,600.00
known as the “Pre-Development Reserve” which damaged MPV’s ability to develop
the Property and prevented MPV from fulfilling its loan obligations. (Id.,
¶¶23- 25.)  
 
On May 11, 2018, Vicino and MPV
entered the fourth loan modification wherein the maturity date for the
Promissory Note was extended to August 1, 2018. (TACC, ¶ 26.) However, the
fourth loan modification overstated the amount due because the principal amount
of $3,110,000.00 due included the entire $624,600 of the Pre-Development
Reserve amount which was never disbursed to MPV. (Id.) The fourth load
modification was not recorded. (Id.)
On December 14, 2018, the
trustee under the deed of trust recorded a “Notice of Default and Election to
Sell Under Deed of Trust” against the Property (the “Notice of Default”)
pursuant to instructions from Vicino because Marquez Pacific had defaulted under
the Promissory Note by failing to pay “the balance of principal and interest
which became due on 8/1/2018.”
(Id., ¶ 27.) During the
time the Notice of Default was recorded, MPV was in negotiations with Vicino
regarding a modification and/or forbearance on the Loan. (Id., ¶ 30.) 
 
In 2016, Alomani and Markab
purchased a membership interest in MPV. (TACC, ¶ 33, 34.) 
“Alomani and Markab Capital
then created Emsaffa Corp. and caused Emsaffa Corp. to surreptitiously purchase
Marquez Pacific’s loan from Vicino, knowing that an invalid and void Notice of
Default had already been recorded, in order to strong-arm Marquez Pacific into
selling the Property to Alomani and Markab Capital for a much lower sale price
than the parties had previously discussed.” (Id., ¶ 38.) Emsaffa was
incorporated in Delaware on or about September 19, 2019 and is a mere “a
subterfuge and vehicle for Alomani and Markab Capital, both of which are based
in Kuwait, to avoid legal liability in California.” (Id., ¶ 67.)
“Emsaffa Corp. is controlled by Alomani and Markab Capital and, on information
and belief, owned by Alomani and Markab Capital and/or their affiliates.
Alomani is the Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, and Chief Financial Officer
of Emsaffa Corp.” (Ibid.)
 
On April 1, 2019, Vicino and
MPV entered into a Forbearance Agreement wherein Vicino agreed to forbear from
filing a Notice of Trustee’s Sale in exchange for MPV making monthly payments
of $100,000 on the first day of each month beginning May 1, 2019. (TAC, ¶¶ 39,
40.) MPV continued to discuss terms for another modification or forbearance on
the Loan. (Id., ¶ 42.) Plaintiff maintains that because four prior Loan
modifications had been made there was a high probability Vicino and MPV would
have entered into another modification or forbearance “on reasonable and fair
terms favorable to MPV.” (Id., ¶ 42.) 
 
Alomani and Markab advised MPV
on the Loan discussion and communicated with Vicino on behalf of MPV regarding
a modification/forbearance which led MPV to believe Cross-Defendants were
working with MPV to obtain a forbearance/modification. (TAC, ¶¶ 44-52.) The
forbearance period was due to expire October 1, 2019. (Id., ¶ 46.) The
TACC alleges that Alomani and Markab interfered to convince Vicino to stop
negotiating with MPV and instead sell the Loan to Emsaffa and that Vicino was
not negotiating in good faith with MPV to obtain a modification/forbearance. (Id.,
¶ 55.) MPV asserts that in September 2019, Vicino proposed onerous and
unreasonable terms for a Loan forbearance and modification. (Id., ¶¶
60-62.) By September 11, 2019, Vicino cut off all discussions with MPV and
stopped negotiating with MPV because Alomani and Markab had convinced Vicino to
sell the Loan to Emsaffa. (Id., ¶ 63.) MPV asserts it could have
redeemed or refinanced the loan “by, among other things, obtaining additional
funds from investors or obtaining financing from another lender” but did not do
so because it was working towards obtaining another forbearance/ modification
and it would have redeemed the Loan had it not been sold to Emsaffa. (Id.,
¶ 64.) 
 
The TACC alleges that Alomani
and Markab conspired with Emsaffa and Vicino to prevent MPV from “from
obtaining a forbearance or modification of the Loan so that Vicino could avoid
providing proper loan statements to [MPV],and instead sell the Loan to Emsaffa
Corp. at a wrongfully inflated price.” (TACC, ¶ 65.) Alomani and Markab would
then “leverage the wrongfully inflated Loan and the invalid Notice of Default
to obtain a heavily discounted purchase price for the Property by causing
Emsaffa Corp. to continue to inflate the amount of the Loan and fail to provide
proper statement”, thus preventing MPV from redeeming the Loan and by
threatening foreclosure. (Id., ¶ 65.) “Alomani and Markab Capital were
acting for their own individual advantage in attempting to use Emsaffa Corp.
and the Loan as leverage to force Marquez Pacific to sell the Property to
Alomani and Markab Capital, not Emsaffa Corp., at a large discount.” (Id.,
¶¶ 65, 186.) 
 
On October 3, 2019, Emsaffa
purchased the Loan from Vicino. (TACC, ¶ 71.) The Letter of Intent (“LOI”)
related to the purchase of the Loan by Emsaffa and was signed by Alomani. (Id.,
¶ 70.) Alomani also negotiated and signed the Loan Sale Agreement. (Id.,
¶ 72.) After October 17, 2019 Vicino signed the Assignment of the Deed of Trust
“purporting to assign the Deed of Trust, the First Modification, the Second
Modification, and the Third Modification from Vicino to Emsaffa Corp.” (Id.,
¶ 75.) “On or about October 22, 2019, an attorney for Alomani and Markab
Capital wired money to the holding escrow for the purchase of the Loan from
Vicino by Emsaffa Corp.” (Id., ¶ 76.) “On or about October 25, 2019,
Emsaffa Corp. recorded an Assignment of Deed of Trust[.]” (Id., ¶ 77.) 
 
Even if the fourth Loan
Modification was not recorded or assigned, Vicino has taken the position that
the Loan was sold and completely assigned to Emsaffa such that Vicino is no
longer the true owner or beneficial holder of the Loan. (TACC, ¶ 78.) Consequently,
Cross-Defendants’ interference has prevented MPV from obtaining a Loan
forbearance or modification. (Id., ¶ 78.) Furthermore, Cross-Defendants
and Vicino concealed in bad faith their purchase of the Loan to wrongfully
obtain ownership of the Property. (Id., ¶ 79.) On October 25,
2019, Vicino informed MPV that the Loan had been sold to Emsaffa. (Id.,
¶¶ 81.) “Beginning in mid-2020, Alomani, Markab Capital, and Emsaffa Corp.
began to threaten to foreclose on the Loan unless [MPV]sold Alomani the
Property at a greatly discounted price,” resulting in a reduced purchase price
of over 70%. (Id., ¶¶ 83 84.) 
 
In light of Alomani, Markab,
and Emsaffa’s foreclosure threats, MPV “advised” Cross-Defendants that it
intended to redeem the Loan and requested an accounting, which resulted in
over $500,000 miscellaneous charges that were unexplained or unsupported.
(TACC, ¶¶ 86-89.) MPV asserts that it has been prevented from redeeming the
loan due to Emsaffa’s refusal to provide an accurate accounting of the
Loan and its refusal to enter “into a forbearance or modification of the Loan
and will not accept any payment less than the inflated and improper payoff
amount it demands in exchange for a release of the Notice of Default or the
Deed of Trust.” (Id., ¶ 91.) Moreover, MPV cannot sell the Property to a
buyer other than Cross-Defendants because MPV believes no other buyer will pay
a fair market price for a property that has a notice of default and deed of
trust recorded against it. (Id., ¶ 92.) 
 
Cross-Defendants Alomani and
Markab now demurrer to the tortious interference claims, the fraud claim, and
the UCL claim alleged in the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes
of action. 
 
B.        Tenth Cause of Action – Fraud
 
“[T]he elements of an action
for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are:(1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;
general and  conclusory allegations do
not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645.) Specificity “necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id. at
631.)
 
Cross-Defendants assert that
MPV’s fraud allegations are conclusory and lack specificity as to when the
alleged misrepresentations were made. 
 
The court finds that the TACC
sufficiently alleges specific instances of when the alleged misrepresentations
were made: 

“On or about September 25, 2019,
     Vicino and Emsaffa Corp. opened a “holding escrow” for the sale of the
     Loan from Vicino to Emsaffa Corp. Alomani, Markab Capital, Emsaffa Corp.,
     and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (TACC, ¶ 69.) 
“On September 26, 2019, Vicino and
     Emsaffa Corp. entered into a Letter of Intent (“LOI”) outlining a
     transaction whereby Emsaffa Corp. . . Alomani, Markab Capital, Emsaffa
     Corp., and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (Id., ¶
     70.)
“On September 26, 2019, Alomani,
     Markab Capital, and/or Emsaffa Corp. deposited $150,000 into the holding
     escrow pursuant to the terms of the LOI. Alomani, Markab Capital, Emsaffa
     Corp., and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (Id., ¶
     71.) 
“On or about October 3, 2019,
     Vicino and Emsaffa Corp. entered into a Loan Sale Agreement . . . The Loan
     Sale Agreement was not disclosed to Marquez Pacific.” (Id., ¶ 72.) 
“On October 17, 2019, Vicino
     signed an Assignment of Deed of Trust . . . Alomani, Markab Capital,
     Emsaffa Corp., and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (Id.,
     ¶ 75.) 
“On or about October 22, 2019, an
     attorney for Alomani and Markab Capital wired money to the holding escrow
     for the purchase of the Loan from Vicino by Emsaffa Corp. Alomani, Markab
     Capital, Emsaffa Corp., and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (Id.,
     ¶ 76.) 
“On or about October 25, 2019,
     Emsaffa Corp. recorded an Assignment of Deed of Trust . . .Alomani, Markab
     Capital, Emsaffa Corp., and Vicino concealed this from Marquez Pacific.” (Id.,
     ¶ 77.)

 
Therefore, the TACC
sufficiently alleges that Cross-Defendants concealed the sale of the Loan to
Emsaffa. (TACC, ¶ 79.) Cross-Defendants further allege that Alomani and Markab
owed no duty to disclose because Vicino was allowed to sell the Loan without notice.

 
There are four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: “(1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d
646, 651.) Therefore, if Alomani and Markab owed a duty to disclose, then it is
immaterial that Vecino had no such duty and was permitted to sell the Loan
without disclosure to MPV. 
 
MPV’s opposition asserts that
Cross-Defendants’ duty to disclose the purchase of the Loan arises out of the
confidential relationship that exists between Markab and Alomani, even if there
is no fiduciary relationship. “In Richelle L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 257, the appellate court affirmed that “ ‘[a]
confidential relation may exist although there is no fiduciary relation....’ ”
(Id., at p. 271 (Richelle L.).) In Assilzadeh v. California
Federal Bank (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, 415, the appellate court similarly
found that a constructive fraud claim can be premised on breach of a
confidential relationship. Therefore, the court sees no reason why MPV’s fraud
claim cannot be premised on a breach of a confidential relationship rather than
a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
A confidential relationship
“exists when the circumstances make it certain that the parties do not
deal on equal terms, but on the one side there is an overmastering influence,
or, on the other, weakness, dependence or trust, justifiably reposed.’” (Richelle
L., supra, 106 Cal.App.4th 257 at p. 271, fn. 4 citing In re Stroming's
Will (1951)
12 N.J.Super 217, 224, 79 A.2d 492, 495.)  “The essence of a fiduciary or confidential
relationship is that the parties do not deal on equal terms, because the person
in whom trust and confidence is reposed and who accepts that trust and
confidence is in a superior position to exert unique influence over the
dependent party.” (Barbara A. v. John G. (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 369, 383
(Barbra A.).) “Generally, the existence of a confidential relationship
is a question of fact for the jury or the trial court.” (Id.) 
 
Markab and Alomani are alleged
to be agents or alter egos of each other, with Alomani being the Chairman of
Markab. (TACC, ¶¶ 4, 6.) The confidential relationship existed since 2016, when
the Alomani Members purchased membership interest in MPV and Alomani indicated he
had the best interests of MVP because he represented the Alomani Members as
minority members of MPV. (Id., ¶ 198.) Alomani and Markab advised and
participated in discussions with Vicino regarding the Loan
modification/forbearance. (Id., ¶ 43.) “Alomani and Markab Capital
undertook to and purported to advise Marquez Pacific with respect to the Loan
and obtaining a forbearance with Marquez Pacific’s interest purportedly in
mind.” (Ibid.) MPV “trusted Alomani and Markab Capital to interact with
Vicino with Marquez Pacific’s interests in mind and to put Marquez Pacific’s
interests above Alomani’s and Markab Capital’s.” (Ibid.) “Alomani and
Markab Capital sought and encouraged Marquez Pacific’s trust in conversations
with Marquez Pacific and Vicino by indicating that they were working with
Marquez Pacific to obtain a forbearance and/or modification of the Loan to help
Marquez Pacific and allow time for a proposed purchase of the Property by
Alomani and Markab Capital.” (Ibid.)
 
“Alomani and Markab Capital
sought and encouraged Marquez Pacific’s trust in conversations with Marquez
Pacific and Vicino by indicating that they were working with Marquez Pacific to
obtain a forbearance and/or modification of the Loan[.]” (TACC, ¶ 45.) Alomani
and Markab told MPV to not worry about Loan discussions with Vicino because
they “were handling them.” (Ibid.) Alomani and Markab “sought and
encouraged that trust and confidence by their conduct” by telling MPV to “not
to worry about the discussions with Vicino because Alomani and Markab Capital
were handling them.” (Id., ¶ 197.) “Alomani and Markab Capital undertook
to and purported to advise Marquez Pacific with respect to the Loan and
obtaining a forbearance with Marquez Pacific’s interest purportedly in mind.” (Ibid.) MPV sent emails and had phone calls with Alomani
regarding the Loan forbearance/modification. (Id., ¶¶ 49-52, 54.)
“Vicino included Alomani and Markab Capital in this email to its borrower due
to its understanding that Alomani and Markab Capital were advising Marquez
Pacific with respect to obtaining a further forbearance or a modification of
the Loan[.]” (Id., ¶ 49.) Alomani and
Markab dangled the prospect of an investment or purchase in the Property in
front of MPV while also negotiating with Vicino to purchase the Loan. (Id.,
¶ 197.) 


Based on the allegations
detailed above, the court finds that MPV has pled sufficient facts to show that
MPV and Alomani and Markab had a confidential relationship that obligated
Markab and Alomani to disclose its plans to purchase the Loan from Vicino. “When
the parties are so circumstanced or associated in a business transaction that
one party must rely on the good faith and integrity of the other, the fiduciary
character of the relationship may exist despite the absence of a blood
relationship.” (Stevens v. Marco (1956) 147 Cal.App.2d 357, 372.) The
TACC sufficiently alleges that Markab and Alomani advised and participated in
the negotiations with Vicino about the Loan and led MPV to think Markab and
Alomani were acting to protect the interests of MPV rather than for their own
benefit. A confidential relationship ‘ “ordinarily arises where a confidence is
reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a relation the
party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he [or she] voluntarily accepts or
assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his [or her] acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or
consent....’ ” (Barbara A., supra, 145 Cal.App.3d at . 382 citing
Herbert v. Lankershim (1937) 9 Cal.2d 409, 483.) The TACC sufficiently
alleges that Alomani and Markab violated the confidential relationship by
purchasing the Loan from Vicino despite representing to MPV that it was helping
them negotiate a Loan forbearance/modification. 
 
Therefore, the allegation in
the TACC sufficiently alleges that Cross-Defendants Markab and Alomani owe a
duty to disclose that they were moving forward with purchasing the Loan from
Vicino. 
 
Third, Cross-Defendants assert
that the fraud claim fails because there was no reasonable reliance on the
concealment of the Loan purchase because MPV did not take steps to reasonable
steps to protect its Members’ investment in the Property and there were no
discussions with other lenders or investors. Whether MPV would have taken steps
to redeem or refinance the Loan remains a disputed issue of fact not subject to
adjudication on demurrer. “ ‘A demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure
for determining the truth of disputed facts.’ ” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-114.) It is
sufficient that the TACC alleges that had MPV known, it would have “tak[en]
immediate action to obtain additional funding, redeem or refinance the Loan,
purchase the Loan, cure the default, and/or prevent the sale of the Loan to
Emsaffa Corp.” (TACC, ¶ 203.) 
 
Fourth, Cross-Defendants assert
that MPV cannot allege economic harm caused by the interferences. As MPV’s
opposition explains, the TACC sufficiently alleges “(1) it was forced to incur
attorneys’ fees bringing a lawsuit against Emsaffa Corp., (2) interest has
continued to accrue at a default rate on the Loan, (3) the Notice of Default
remains a cloud on title, (4) MPV cannot obtain additional financing to entitle
or develop the Property, which has resulted in lost profits, (5), MPV has
continues to incur operating costs for the Property while it is prevented from
selling the Property, including insurance costs and property taxes, (6) the
value of the Property is damaged by at least $1 million.” (TACC, ¶¶
153-154(a)-(h).)  
 
i.          The Loan/Promissory Note is Governed By California Law
 
Cross-Defendants Alomani and
Markab assert that under Delaware law, investors are permitted to purchase
notes and hold debt in the entity in which they invested. For purposes of this
Motion, the court rejects Cross-Defendants argument that Delaware law should
apply to this action because Cross-Defendants have not made such a showing.
Moreover, the  Promissory Note, under
Governing Law states: “This Note shall be constructed and enforce [sic] able
according to the law of the State of California for all purposes.” (TACC, Ex.
A, ¶ 15.)  Therefore, it is irrelevant
that Cross-Defendants are permitted to purchase the Loan under Delaware law,
when California law governs the dispute at issue. The fact that Cross-Defendants’
conduct was permissible under Delaware law does not mean its lawful under
California Law. 
 
Based on the above, the court
overrules the demurrer to the tenth cause of action. 
 
C.        Seventh Cause of Action - Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations 
 
The tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic relations is the tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage. (See Della Penna v. Toyota
Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378 [Analyzing the burden
of proof and the “the elements of the tort variously known as interference with
‘prospective economic advantage,’ ‘prospective contractual relations,’ or
‘prospective economic relations’[.]”].) 
Subsequently, in Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003)
29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 and Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 1130, 1141, the California Supreme Court reiterated that the correct
name of the tort was intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage. 
 
To state a claim for the tort
of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (IIPEA), the
claimant must allege: (1) an economic relationship between the claimant and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
claimant; (2) the defendant or cross-defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant or cross-defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the claimant proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.¿(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 480, 504.)
 
“[A]s our Supreme Court has
said time and again, an actor’s breach of contract, without more, is not
‘wrongful conduct’ capable of supporting a tort [citations], including the tort
of intentional interference with a prospective economic advantage.” (Drink
Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
528, 533. ) ‘ “[T]o state a claim for interference with an at-will contract by
a third party, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant engaged in an
independently wrongful act.’ ” (Pech v. Doniger (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th
443, 457.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if
it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or
other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 1138.) “[W]e treat[] interference with contractual relations and
interference with prospective economic advantage as two species of the same
tort. [Citation.] Each tort contained the same elements with the exception that
interference with contractual relations required the existence of a binding
contract.” (Ixchel Pharma, supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 1141.) 
 
Cross-Defendant Markab and
Alomani assert the seventh cause of action fails because MPV fails to plead a
reasonable probability of a prospective economic advantage that would have been
realized but for the Cross-Defendants’ interference. (Youst v. Longo
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71.) Taking MPV’s allegations as true, the TACC
sufficiently alleges that MPV and Vicino had already entered into various
modifications and Loan forbearances. (TACC, ¶¶ 45, 150.) Whether Vicino would
have offered MPV another Loan modification/forbearance remains a disputed issue
of fact not subject to adjudication on demurrer. (Freemont Indemnity Co.,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 113-114.) 
 
It also remains disputed
whether MPV would have been able to redeem the Loan or purchase the Loan had
they known about Markab and Alomani’s intent to purchase the Loan. “If Marquez
Pacific had known these facts it would have taken action to redeem, refinance,
modify, or purchase the Loan or taken other action to prevent the sale of the
Loan to Emsaffa Corp.” (TACC, ¶ 138.) Taking the allegations in the TACC as
true, MPV sufficiently alleges that had MPV known Alomani and Markab’s true
intent MPV would have “taken actions to obtain additional funding, redeem or
refinance the Loan, purchase the Loan, cure the default, and/or prevent the
sale of the Loan to Emsaffa Corp. (Id., ¶ 207.) The court also finds
that these allegations are not conclusory as they are supported by sufficient
facts. 
 
Third, Cross-Defendants assert
that the seventh cause of action fails because there is no intentional wrongful
conduct. As the demurrer to the tenth cause of action for fraud has been
overruled, MPV’s fraud claim can serve as the basis for the independently
wrongful conduct. 
 
Fourth, Cross-Defendants assert
that there was no disruption in the economic relationship because the
Promissory Note allowed Vicino to sell the Loan at any time to anyone without
notice. (TACC, Ex. A, § 14 [Assignment].) The Parties do not dispute that Vicino
had the right to sell the Loan, but that Vicino exercised its rights does not
mean there was no disruption to the economic relationship. The TACC supports
the allegation that Vicino and MPV would have continued to engage in
negotiations for a Loan modification/forbearance but that due to Alomani and
Markab’s interference, Vicino began to make offers different than those previously
discussed, such as a higher interest rate and advance payment. (TACC, ¶¶ 55,
60-63.) MPV asserts that Vicino has stopped negotiating in good faith and the
purpose of requesting new terms was to delay MPV while the Loan was sold to
Emsaffa. (Id., ¶¶ 61, 63.)  After
the Loan was purchased by Emsaffa, MPV began to receive foreclosure threats and
Alomani and Markab offered to purchase the Property at a 70% discount. (Id.,
¶¶ 83, 84.) MPV was also unable to redeem the Loan because Emsaffa failed to
provide accurate accounting. (Id., ¶¶ 85-91.)
 
The facts above support the
finding that MPV’s economic relationship with Vicino was interfered with due to
Alomani and Markab’s involvement. 
 
Lastly, Cross-Defendants assert
that there is no conspiracy between Alomani and Markab and Vicino. This last
point is irrelevant, as conspiracy between the parties is not an element of a
claim for intentional interference with prospective economic relations so long
as Alomani and Markab are strangers to the relationship between Vicino and MPV.

 
For the reasons outlined above,
the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled. 
 
D.        Eight Cause of Action – Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations
 
The tort of negligent
interference with a prospective economic advantage (“NIPEA”) differs in that
the defendant's act disrupting the economic relationship does not need to be
intentional. (Venhaus v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.)“The
tort of negligent interference with economic relationship arises only
when the defendant owes the plaintiff a duty of care.” (Stolz v. Wong
Communications Limited Partnership (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1811, 1825
[italics original].)  For both IIPEA and NIPEA, the interference must be
wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the interference itself.
(Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376,
378.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is
proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.)
 
Cross-Defendants assert that
the eighth cause of action fails because Alomani and Markab owed no duty of
care to MPV. As explained above, the TACC sufficiently alleges facts to show
that Alomani, Markab, and MPV were in a confidential relationship because
Alomani advised and participated in the Loan forbearance/modification
negotiations with Vicino and led MPV to believe Alomani was acting in the best
interests of MPV as a minority shareholder. 
 
On demurrer, the court takes
the allegations in the TACC as true it remains disputed whether MPV knew that
Alomani was not acting on behalf of MPV but was instead representing the first
and foremost the interest of the Alomani members and their interest in
preserving ownership of the Property. The TACC further alleges that had MPV
known about Cross-Defendants’ plan to purchase the Loan, MPV would have
“tak[en] immediate action to obtain additional funding, redeem or refinance the
Loan, purchase the Loan, cure the default, and/or prevent the sale of the Loan
to Emsaffa Corp.” (TACC, ¶ 203.) 
 
The demurrer to the ninth cause
of action is overruled. 
 
E.        Ninth Cause of Action – Intentional
Interference with Economic Relations 
 
“The elements of a cause of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations are ‘(1) the
existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the
defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4)actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) 
 
The TACC alleges that Alomani
and Markab interfered with MPV’s economic relationship with Emsaffa by causing
the Emsaffa to inflate the amount due on the Loan in an effort to get MPV to
sell the Property as a greatly discounted price. (TACC, ¶ 186.) The ninth cause
of action also alleges that Alomani and Markab interfered with the contractual
relationship MPV had with the Alomani members by using their investment to
purchase an unrelated loan from “Shata Family Holdings Limited” at an inflated
price. (Id., ¶¶ 189, 190.) 
 
Cross-Defendants demurrer to
the ninth cause of action for various reasons. However, the court finds the
ninth cause of action is deficient because MPV fails to show that Alomani and
Markab are separate entities from Emsaffa rather than its principal. Both
interference with contract and interference with prospective economic relations
are “[t]orts [that] enable a party to a contract to sue a stranger to that
contract for interfering with the contract and both require an intentional
act.” (PMC, Inc. v. Saban Entertainment, Inc. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 579,
595 disapproved on other grounds by Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134.) “The tort of intentional
interference with contractual relations is committed only by
“strangers—interlopers who have no legitimate interest in the scope or course
of the contract's performance.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.)
 
The TACC asserts that Alomani
and Markab were acting for their own individual advantage by using Emsaffa to
purchase the Loan and leverage the Loan to obtain a discounted price on the
Property. (TACC, ¶¶ 65, 186, 190.) That Alomani and Markab acted for their own
advantage is not sufficient to show that they were strangers to the economic
relationship that MPV had with Emsaffa when the TACC is replete with
allegations that Alomani and Markab and Emsaffa were in an agency relationship.
(Id., ¶¶ 6, 38, 65, 67, 70-73, 75, 76, 82,83, 85, 91, 94.) “A
corporation can act only through its individual employees.” (Janken v. GM
Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 77.) “[A] person
is liable for the torts committed by her agent within the scope of the agency.”
(Pereda v. Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 759, 768.) “ ‘[I]f a
tortious act has been committed by an agent acting under authority of his
principal, the fact that the principal thus becomes liable does not, of course,
exonerate the agent from liability.’ ... The fact that the tortious act arises
during the performance of a duty created by contract does not negate the
agent's liability.’ ” (Shafer v. Berger, Kahn, Shafton, Moss, Figler, Simon
& Gladstone (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 54, 68–69.) 
 
The TACC alleges that
Cross-Defendants Alomani, Markab, and Emsaffa are agents, alter-egos, and
employees of each other. (TACC, ¶ 6.) Alomani is the Chairman of Markab and
communicated with MPV using the email address “ alomani@markabcapital.com.” (Id.,
¶ 4.) The TACC alleges that Alomani and Markab created Emsaffa for the sole
purpose of purchasing the Loan from Vicino “in order to strong-arm Marquez
Pacific into selling the Property to Alomani and Markab Capital for a much
lower sale price than the parties had previously discussed.” (Id., ¶
38.) Alomani and Markab created Emsaffa in order to “leverage the wrongfully
inflated Loan and the invalid Notice of Default to obtain a heavily discounted
purchase price for the Property by causing Emsaffa Corp. to continue to inflate
the amount of the Loan and fail to provide proper statements to prevent Marquez
Pacific from redeeming the Loan and threatening foreclosure. “ (Id., ¶
65.) By causing Emsaffa to inflate the Loan, MPV is alleging that Alomani and
Markab controlled Emsaffa. Emsaffa’s being an agent of Alomani and Markab is
confirmed by the allegation that: “Emsaffa Corp. is merely a subterfuge and
vehicle for Alomani and Markab Capital, both of which are based in Kuwait, to
avoid legal liability in California. Emsaffa Corp. is controlled by Alomani and
Markab Capital and, on information and belief, owned by Alomani and Markab
Capital and/or their affiliates. Alomani is the Chief Executive Officer,
Secretary, and Chief Financial Officer of Emsaffa Corp.” (Id., ¶ 67.)
The TACC further alleges that Alomani, Markab, and Emsaffa acted in concert to
threaten MPV with foreclosure. (Id., ¶ 85.) 
 
The factual allegations above
support the finding that Alomani controlled Markab and Emsaffa and that an
agency relationship exists between them such that they are not separate
entities. These factual allegations also overcome any conclusory allegations that
Alomani and Markab are strangers to the Loan purchase. The TACC sufficiently
alleges that Alomani signed the Letter of Intent to purchase the Loan, the Loan
Sale Agreement, on behalf of Emsaffa. (TACC, ¶¶ 70, 72.) These allegations
contradict MPV’s conclusory allegations that Alomani and Markab are strangers
to Emsaffa’s Loan purchase and do not control Emsaffa’s corporate decisions. 
 
As to the Loan regarding the
Alomani members, the TACC similarly alleges that “Alomani and Markab Capital
control and represent the Alomani Members in their dealings with Marquez
Pacific.” (TACC, ¶ 34.) Therefore, because Alomani and Markab control the Alomani
members, they are not strangers to the decision to purchase the Shata Family
Loan. The fact that MPV as a majority shareholder did not like the transaction,
does not mean that it has a valid claim against Alomani and Markab for
interference with a transaction that they control. (Id., ¶ 34.) 
 
Therefore, because Alomani,
Markab, Emsaffa, and the Alomani Members are in an agency relationship, any
claim of interference against them fails because they are party to the
contracts or economic relationships at issue. 
The fact that Alomani and
Markab acted for their own advantage, is insufficient to dispel any allegations
that there is no agency relationship between them and the other
Cross-Defendants such that they should be treated as separate entities. The
TACC fails to allege that Emsaffa and the Alomani members were not controlled
by Alomani and Markab, are not in an agency relationship, and did not ratify
any of Alomani and Markab’s wrongful conduct. 
 
For this reason, the court
sustains the demurrer to the ninth cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
F.        Eleventh Cause of Action – Unlawful, Unfair, and Fraudulent
Business Acts and Practices
 
Business and Professions Code
section 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200; see Clark v.
Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this statutory
claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
“An unlawful business practice
or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is
at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc.
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A business practice is unfair within the
meaning of the UCL if it violates established public policy or if it is
immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers
which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a fraudulent business practice claim under
section 17200 “is not based upon proof of the common law tort of deceit or
deception, but is instead premised on whether the public is likely to be
deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490,
1499.)
 
As to Alomani and Markab, the
TACC alleges they violated the UCL by “(1) interfering with Marquez Pacific’s
negotiations with Vicino regarding an extension and/or modification of the
Loan, (2) fraudulently concealing its negotiation and purchase of the Loan from
Marquez Pacific, (3) brokering the purchase of a membership interest in Marquez
Pacific without proper licensing, and (4) requiring over $1,000,000 of the
money the Alomani Members purported “invested” in Marquez Pacific be used to
purchase an unrelated loan from “Shata Family Holdings Limited” at an inflated
price.” 
 
The lack of proper licensing
violated Bus. & Prof. Code sections “10030, 10131(e), 10139, 10131.2,
10131.3 and Corporations Code sections 25206, 25210 which require those who
broker, solicit, or negotiate the purchase or sale of securities or a “business
opportunity” to have obtained a license from the California Department of Real
Estate or the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation.”
(TACC, ¶ 219.) Moreover, MPV seeks injunctive relief “against Alomani and
Markab Capital (1) brokering business opportunities or the purchase or sale of
securities in California, (2) enforcing, claiming, or exercising the illegal
“brokers option” it signed, (3) conducting any business in California, (4)
interfering with the Loan, (5) causing Emsaffa Corp. to breach the Loan, and
(6) such other conduct as Marquez Pacific may request be restrained and
enjoined and as the Court may deem it appropriate to restrain and enjoin.” (Id.,
¶ 227.) 
The court finds that because
Cross-Complainant MPV’s fraud claim and alleged violation of the licensing
requirements are validly pled, the eleventh cause of action is not subject to
demurrer based on minor deficiencies regarding the Shata Loan. “A demurrer
cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular
type of damage or remedy.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment
Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047.)
 
As MPV alleges a viable UCL
claim, the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike
punitive damages from the TACC as alleged against Alomani and Markab. (TACC, ¶
46, 215.) 
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ.
Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code, § 3294
(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §, 3294(c)(2).) The
term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3). When the defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression,
fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an
officer, director, or managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v.
Southern California Edison Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see
Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
 
The TACC sufficiently alleges
that Alomani, as an individual, advised MPV with respect to the
Loan/Modification. (TACC, ¶¶ 43, 45, 107.) Using his role as advisor, Alomani
led MPV to believe it was acting in the best interest of MPV and establishing a
confidential relationship with MPV. (Id., ¶¶ 45, 47, 137, 198.) Alomani
breached the confidential relationship be creating Emsaffa for the purpose of
purchasing the Loan from Vecino while representing to MPV that it was helping
them obtain a Loan modification/forbearance from Vecino. (Id., ¶¶ 45,
197.) Therefore, the TACC alleges Alomani is guilty of fraud for concealing the
Loan purchase from MPV. 
 
Accordingly, the request to
strike punitive damages as to Cross-Defendant Alomani is denied. 
 
The TACC alleges that Alomani was the
Chairman of Markab. (TACC, ¶ 4.) When the
defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)  A managing agent includes “only those
corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment
in their corporate decision making so that their decisions ultimately determine
corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
564, 566-567.) “ ‘The determination whether employees act in a
managerial capacity [i.e., are managing agents] does not necessarily hinge on
their ‘level’ in the corporate hierarchy. Rather, the critical inquiry is the
degree of discretion the employees possess in making decisions that will
ultimately determine corporate policy.’ ” (Kelly-Zurian v. Wohl Shoe Co.
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397, 421 citing Egan v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co.
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 809, 823.) 
 
The fact that Alomani is the
Chairman of Markab is by itself insufficient to hold Markab liable as a
corporation. The TACC needs to allege that Alomani had the power to shape
Markab’s corporate policy, and perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified
Alomani’s conduct in establishing a confidential relationship with MPV while
simultaneously agreeing to conceal the purchase of the Loan. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike
is granted as to Cross-Defendant Markab but not Cross-Defendant Alomani, with
leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the seventh,
eighth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action is overruled. The demurrer to the
ninth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. The motion to strike
is denied as Defendant Alomani and granted with leave to amend as to Defendant
Markab. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend. The court sets a
Non-Appearance OSC RE: Filing of Amended Complaint for November 25, 2024, at
8:30 a.m.  Moving Party to give notice. 
 


