 Case Number:  24STCP00466    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  26 
Forward Financing, LLC v. Bianca, et al.
PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD
(CCP § 1285, et seq.)
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
 
Petitioner
Forward Financing, LLC’s Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award is DISMISSED.
 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
On February 14, 2024, Petitioner Forward Financing, LLC
(“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (the
“Petition”) against Respondent Bianca Christopher (“Respondent”). The Petition
initially came for hearing on July 8, 2024, at which time the Court noted that
it was defective in a number of respects. (Minute Order, 07/08/24.) First, the
Petition did not name BLC, Inc. dba Bellacures (“BLC”), which was also a party
to the arbitration. (Ibid.) Second, no proof of service of the Petition
and Notice of Hearing had been filed with the Court. (Ibid.) Petitioner
appeared at the hearing and represented that BLC was in bankruptcy,
complicating service of the parties; the Court continued the matter to allow
Petitioner an opportunity to resolve these issues. (Ibid.) To date, no
additional papers, nor opposition to, the Petition has been filed to date.
 
Discussion
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made
may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as respondent all
parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound
by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered
in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects
the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the
proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1286.)
 
A response to a
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award that seeks to vacate or correct the award
must be served and filed no later than 100 days after the date of the service
of a signed copy of the award on the respondent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.2.)
 
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1290.4 requires that the Petition and Notice of Hearing be
served on Respondent “in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for
the service of such petition and notice” or “[i]f the arbitration agreement
does not provide the manner in which such service shall be made . . . [s]ervice
within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service
of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
As noted above, neither of the requirements set forth above—naming all
the parties to the arbitration and service of the Petition and Notice of
Hearing—have been satisfied. Nor has Petitioner filed any other papers
indicating how the service issues with respect to either Respondent or BLC will
be solved at this time. 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Petitioner Forward Financing, LLC’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award is DISMISSED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 