  Case Number:  21STCV24248    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HOMAYOON
  EBRAHIM-NEHORAY
  
         vs.
 
FARZIN
  AGHAIPOUR, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV24248 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 16, 2024




 
            
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.
 
On 6/29/2022,
Plaintiff Homayoon Ebrahim-Nehoray (Plaintiff) filed suit against Farzin
Aghaipour, Shahla Sassounian, and Pacific Construction (collectively,
Defendants). On 6/9/2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC)
alleging: (1) trespass; and (2) private nuisance.
 
            On
2/29/2024, Defendants moved for summary judgment, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
            
            Defendants
move the Court for an order granting summary adjudication in favor of
Defendants and against Plaintiff as to the following issue: that this Court
lacks jurisdiction to enter a judgment as to whether Defendants violated the
Beverly Hills Municipal Code in connection with their construction of the real
property located at 320 Trousdale Place, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (320
Trousdale). 
 
Defendants
further move the Court for an order granting summary judgment or, alternatively
summary adjudication, in favor of Defendants and against Nehoray as to (1)
Nehoray’s First Cause of Action for Trespass; and (2) Second Cause of Action
for Private Nuisance.
 
After review,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ MSA/MSJ exceeds the scope of
issues permitted by the Court. More specifically, Plaintiff argues that the
Court permitted Defendants to file an MSA/MSJ on the limited issue of whether
the Court has jurisdiction to interpret and enforce the City of Beverly Hills’
Code of Ordinances. 
 
However,
first, the Court’s own notes reflect permission to address jurisdiction and any
other relevant issues. Second, the Stipulation entered into by the parties on
2/22/2024, which addresses the issues which are to be dealt with via bench
trial as opposed to jury trial, includes allegations embraced by the private
nuisance and trespass claims. Third, and more importantly, on 2/13/2024, the
Court vacated the trial date.  Defendants
filed this motion on 2/29/2024, 75 days prior to the hearing of this motion.
(CCP § 437c.) Accordingly, Defendants were entitled to bring an MSJ/MSA on any
issue, and the Court does not limit its analysis to the issue of jurisdiction. 
 
I.                  
Jurisdictional
Issue 
 
Defendants’ first
contention is that this Court lacks jurisdiction to determine whether Plaintiff
violated certain ordinances of the Beverly Hills Municipal Code. 
 
Specifically,
Plaintiff seeks a determination that Defendants violated Ordinance no.
10-3-2616, 10-3-2603, and 10-8-101 through 103 (collectively, the Subject
Ordinances). Ordinance No. 10-3-2616 relates to the permitted height of a hedge
on real property. Ordinance No. 10-3-2603 relates to construction of structures
beyond the level pad on the property. Ordinance 10-8-101 through 103 relate to
the restoration and preservation of certain views from real property (the
Trousdale Estates View Restoration.)
 
Any violation
of the BHMC is governed and enforced by the City of Beverly Hills (the City).
“The defendant city has the power through its administrative agency to abate
nuisances and within constitutional limits to force property owners to abate
conditions which in fact constitute nuisances or hazards to the public health
or safety and neither this court nor could the trial court assume that in the
present proceedings the defendants will attempt to exercise the police power of
the city beyond its constitutional limits.” (Dunitz v. City of Los Angeles
(1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 399, 404.)
 
Furthermore,
the Court should defer to the City in its interpretation of its own ordinances.
“Greater deference should be given to an agency's interpretation where ‘the
agency has expertise and technical knowledge, especially where the legal text
to be interpreted is technical, obscure, complex, open-ended, or entwined with
issues of fact, policy, and discretion.’” (Citizens for Beach Rights v. City
of San Diego (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 230, 241.)
 
Here, Defendants
submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
On November 7, 2017, the City issued
permit number BS1711452 for water efficient landscape work. (SS 1.) 
 
-        
After Aghaipour began construction,
Nehoray lodged numerous complaints with Aghaipour and the City regarding the
ongoing construction work. (SS 2.) 
 
-        
After Aghaipour began construction,
Nehoray complained to the City that Aghaipour had allegedly expanded his level
building pad “illegally” and the landscaping along the front yard and driveway
blocked Nehoray’s view. (SS 3.) 
 
-        
On September 23, 2021 and September 30,
2021, the City issued stop work orders regarding alleged violations related to
the size of the level building pad on 320 Trousdale. The City of Beverly Hills
has since lifted those two stop work orders. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
On March 10, 2022, Aghaipour applied to
the City to obtain a new water efficient landscape permit for 320 Trousdale
under permit number BS2201388 (the “Landscaping Permit”). In connection with
the Landscaping Permit, Aghaipour submitted water efficient landscape plans
(the “Landscape Plans”) to the City of Beverly Hills to request planning
approval for proposed landscaping and the associated hardscape in the front
yard at 320 Trousdale. (SS 5.) 
 
-        
On May 22, 2023, the City approved the
Landscape Plans, which included an approval of the footprint of the building
pad and the height of the Cherry Laurel hedges. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
On January 12, 2024, Aghaipour
requested the City to inspect 320 Trousdale to final the work related to
Landscaping Permit pursuant to the Landscape Plans. (SS 7.) 
 
-        
On January 18, 2024, the City inspected
320 Trousdale and confirmed that “all work per plan at time of inspection
including measuring of hedge heights signed landscape affidavit sent to field
reports.” That same day, the City “finaled” the Landscaping Permit. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
The City declined to apply the
Trousdale Estate View Restoration ordinance to 310 Trousdale (SS 9.) 
 
-        
The City has already approved plans for
Defendants’ landscaping work, issued permits for the same based thereon, and
“finaled” the permitted work by confirming the conditions on site are
consistent with the approved plans, which includes the hardscape plan, on
January 18, 2024. (SS 8.)
 
-        
The landscaping plan includes the
height of the hedges and the hardscape plan includes the level pad. (Ibid.)

 
As such,
Defendants evidence supports a reasonable inference that the City physically
measured the height of the hedges and dimensions of the level pad on 320
Trousdale, and determined during its inspection they complied with the BHMC. Defendants’
legal authority also indicates that the Court lacks jurisdiction to interpret
and enforce City Ordinances in the manner presented. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff, despite stipulating to a bifurcation of issues to allow
this Court to expressly consider this issue, now argues that this issue is not
ripe for consideration and that a stay or continuance is warranted:
 
Furthermore,
the portions of Defendants’ MSA/MSJ that do discuss the limited issues the
Court permitted the parties to address, is not ripe for consideration by the
Court. As per the Court’s suggestion at the trial call hearing, in
consideration of the City of Beverly Hills’ (“City”) recent finalizing of Defendant
Farzin Aghaipour’s permit for water efficient landscaping, Plaintiff contacted
the City of Beverly Hills’ Chief Building Officer to lodge a formal
challenge/appeal of the City’s decision to finalize Defendant Aghaipour’s
permit citing numerous City Code of Ordinance violations present onsite.
Consideration of the Defendants’ MSA/MSJ on the jurisdiction issue will not be
ripe until such time as the City renders a decision as to that
challenge/appeal. (Declaration of Cameron M. Miller, ¶¶10-13; Exhibit D to the
Compendium of Exhibits.) If the City decides to take action to enforce their
own ordinances, the issue will be moot, but if the City declines to enforce
their ordinances as written, after exhaustion of the administrative process,
then the Plaintiff will have a cause of action against the City which will
require either amending the present action to include the City as a party, or a
separate action against the City as to the same facts, which Plaintiff will
then seek to relate to this action given the considerable overlap of issues and
potential for conflicting rulings should they be handled separately. In either
circumstance, additional discovery with respect to the City as a party and the
bases for its decisions with respect to Defendants’ property, and any defenses
it may raise in connection to those claims by Plaintiff will take place. This
would certainly uncover facts that would give rise to triable issues of
material fact relevant to this Motion, or otherwise inform Defendants/Plaintiff
of additional claims they may have against the City with respect to the
relevant ordinances. Thus, eliminating these claims at the present moment
would, respectfully, be unwise and have no bearing on future actions the City
may or may not take.
 
            (MSJ,
1: 14 - 2: 7.)
 
            However,
the Court declines to grant either a stay or continuance based on a conclusion
that it does not have jurisdiction to interpret and enforce City of Beverly
Hills Ordinances in the manner presented here, and that even if it did, there
was no evidence to support another interpretation. 
 
This is
because, to provide the relief requested by Plaintiff, the Court “would [be
required] to substitute itself instead of the qualified experts at the City of
Beverly Hills development division to interpret and enforce building code
sections.” (Motion, 7: 19-21.) 
 
If the Court
were vested with such power, this would lead to considerable difficulties with
City administration. Indeed, the risk of inconsistent determinations by the
Court and the City would place individuals in the position of deciding whether
to follow the City’s determination or this Court’s finding, creating a web of
inefficiency and uncertainty.   
 
For example,
if the Court were to determine here that Defendants’ plans did violate the
BHMC, Defendants could then be tasked with determining whether or not they were
bound by the City’s determination or this Court. Plaintiff has not presented
any legal authority would suggest that this result is tolerable. (“This failure
to cite pertinent legal authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins
v. State of California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived
by failure to cite legal authority).
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff’s own cited caselaw suggests only that there is an arbitrary and
capricious standard for the Court overturning the City’s determination: “[t]he
[City’s] construction of the law need not be the only reasonable
interpretation, and its application of the law will be upheld unless it is arbitrary,
capricious, lacks any rational basis, or disregards the plain meaning of the
ordinance." (Robinson v. City of Yucaipa (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th
1506, 1516.) As such, this case law suggests, at most, that the Court should
only overturn City determinations under very rare circumstances.  
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not submitted evidence which could support a reasonable inference
that the City’s decision was arbitrary, capricious, or disregarded the plain
meaning of the ordinances. Thus, even assuming the Court possessed jurisdiction
to interpret the statutes, there is no evidence presented here to support a
reasonable inference that the City’s determinations should be overturned. 
 
            While
Plaintiff claims he is entitled to a continuance to potentially get such evidence,
Plaintiff’s explanation for why he waited until after the 2/13/2024 hearing to
make a challenge/appeal to the City—i.e., that this Court suggested that he
directly approach the City—presents insufficient cause. This action considers
issues beyond just the water-efficient landscape permit that Plaintiff has
purportedly appealed, and Plaintiff has not presented evidence which could show
that the City was arbitrary and capricious in its application of those
ordinances. Moreover, the Court finds it unreasonable to continue or stay this
matter for 6 months for evidence which would support claims against the City,
rather than Defendants here: “On the other hand, if the City determines,
following consideration of Plaintiff’s challenge/appeal, that it will not move
to enforce City ordinances to eliminate the violations complained of by
Plaintiff, then Plaintiff will have no other option but to seek redress through
injunctive relief by either: (1) seeking leave to amend to add the City as a
party to this litigation with respect to the causes of action related to
violation of the City of Beverly Hills ordinances; or (2) file a separate
lawsuit against the City of Beverly Hills for failure to enforce its ordinances
and seek to have the matter related to or consolidated with this case due to
the overlapping issues and risk of inconsistent rulings should the matters be
handled independently.” (Opp., 8: 18-26.)  
Such an argument only further lends credence to Defendants’ contention
that Plaintiff failed to join an essential party by failing to name the City as
a Defendant in this action. 
            
Taken
together, the Court agrees that it lacks jurisdiction here to determine whether
Plaintiff violated certain ordinances of the Beverly Hills Municipal Code. 
 
II.              
Trespass
 
“Trespass is
an unlawful interference with possession of property.” (Ralphs Grocery Co.
v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261, as modified
(Nov. 6, 2017).). “The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership
or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ibid.)
 
Here,
Defendants submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
Plaintiff owns real property located at
310 Trousdale Place, Beverly Hills, CA 90210. (SS 10.) 
 
-        
Defendants own real property located at
320 Trousdale Place, Beverly Hills, CA 90210. (SS 11.) 
 
-        
310 Trousdale and 320 Trousdale share a
common boundary line along the eastern boundary of 310 Trousdale and the
western boundary of 320 Trousdale (the Common Boundary Line). To access their
properties from Trousdale Place, the parties share “an easement for a common driveway”
(the Driveway Easement) that straddles the Common Boundary Line. The surveyed
boundaries of an easement for ingress and egress on the common driveway between
310 Trousdale and 320 Trousdale is as set forth in the survey prepared by Chris
Nelson. (SS 13-15.)
 
-        
The hedge that Nehoray claimed that
Defendants ran over and damaged is located within the Driveway Easement that
has been marked as green hash marks (the Nehoray Landscaping Encroachment). (SS
16.) 
 
-        
Nehoray does not have any evidence that
any alleged runoff from 320 Trousdale crossed the boundary line on to 310
Trousdale. (SS 17.) 
 
-        
The runoff did not interfere with
Nehoray’s use of the Driveway Easement. (SS 18.) 
 
-        
Nehoray was not damaged by the runoff.
(SS 19.)
 
-        
Two separate branches of a pear tree on
310 Trousdale overhung onto the Easement Area. (SS 20.)
 
-        
The broken branches of the pear tree
did not damage the pear tree as a whole. (SS 21.) 
 
-        
Nehoray suffered no damages due to the
allegedly damaged hedges that are adjacent to the driveway. (SS 22.) 
 
-        
Nehoray has no evidence that Aghaipour
or his contractors ran over the hedges that are adjacent to the driveway the
second time (SS 23.) 
 
-        
Aghaipour did not cut down the slow
growth hedge on 310 Trousdale’s side of the shared wall. (SS 24.) 
 
-        
Nehoray did not suffer any damage
caused by the trimmed slow growth hedge on 310 Trousdale’s side of the shared
wall. (SS 25.)
 
-        
Aghaipour had authority to remove the
palm tree on 320 Trousdale. (SS 26.) 
 
Defendants’
evidence supports a reasonable inference that there was no trespass onto
property owned by Plaintiff, and that, even if there was, there was no damage
as a result of the trespass.
 
 Indeed, as to the first point, Plaintiff
testified that he has no personal knowledge that any of the runoff went onto
310 Trousdale:
 
Q. So you
don’t have any personal knowledge of any debris or runoff actually coming onto
your side, past the boundary line between the two properties? 
 
A. Correct. 
 
Q. And did
any portion of that cement runoff go onto 310 Trousdale on that side of the
boundary line? 
 
A. I cannot
tell. 
 
(SS 17.)
 
Plaintiff
testified that the runoff did not interfere with Plaintiff’s use of the
Driveway Easement: 
 
Q. Did that
prevent you from driving on the driveway, though? 
 
A. No. 
 
(SS 18.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
testimony also establishes that he was not damaged by the alleged trespasses.
 
As for
alleged damaged from cement run-off, Plaintiff testified that:
 
Q. And what
damage has this caused your property or you? 
 
A. To my
property, I don’t know. 
 
            (SS
19.)
 
            As
for alleged damage from the mud run-off, Plaintiff testified: 
 
Q. Is the mud
permanent? Can you remove it by washing it off? 
A. You can wash
it off. We never had that – 
 
(SS 19.)
 
 
Finally, as
for the alleged damaged to the pear tree, Plaintiff testified that he has no
evidence of the cost of the alleged damage to the tree, and that the broken
limb did not negatively affect the health of the tree:
 
Q. What
damages are you seeking as a result of this broken branch? 
 
A. I guess
cost. 
 
Q. And what
is that cost? 
 
A. I don’t
know. I don’t know yet. 
 
Q. Have you
hired an arborist to determine if the tree has been damaged? 
 
A. No. 
 
Q. Has
anything else happened to the tree with respect to this particular incident,
branches falling off or leaves dying? Do you notice anything going on? 
 
A. No. We see
four seasons with these trees.
 
Q. So aside
from the actual branch being broken off, you haven’t seen anything that appears
to negatively affect the health of the tree; correct? 
 
A. Correct. 
 
Q. As you sit
here today, you don’t have any idea of how the tree’s been damaged aside from
the branch being gone?
 
                                    A.
Correct. 
 
(SS
21.)
 
As for the
second incident with the pear tree, Plaintiff similarly testified that the
branch that was broken protruded out into the Easement Area, that he does not
know whether Aghaipour broke off the branch, and that, either way, the overall
health of the tree was not affected after the branch broke off. (SS 20-21.)
 
Finally, as
to the hedge adjacent to the driveway wherein Plaintiff alleges two separate
incidences of damage, Plaintiff similarly has no evidence that Aghaipour
damaged the hedge or that Plaintiff suffered damages associated with the hedge.
As to the first incident, Plaintiff testified that Aghaipour replaced the hedge
that was run over and that the replacement hedge resolved that incident. (SS
22.)
 
Q. Okay. And
this text was to notify Mr. Aghaipour that you contended one of his
construction trucks ran over the hedge; correct? 
 
A. Correct. 
 
Q. And how
did Mr. Aghaipour respond? 
 
A. The first
time, I believe – and we have the text – he apologized and replaced them.
 
 Q. And you were satisfied with the
replacement/ right? 
 
A. Yes. 
 
Q. So the
first time, the issues were resolved; correct? 
 
A. Yes.
 
(SS 22.)
 
As to the
second hedge incident, Plaintiff testified that he has no evidence that
Aghaipour or his contractors ran over the hedge. (SS 23.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff failed to substantively respond to these arguments or
dispute Defendants’ undisputed material facts. Accordingly, Plaintiff has
failed to disclose a triable issue as to this claim. 
 
III.           
Private
Nuisance  
 
The elements
for a private nuisance claim are as follows. “First, the plaintiff must prove
an interference with his use and enjoyment of its property. Second, the
invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must
be substantial, i.e., it caused the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage. Third, the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial,
it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176, reh'g denied
(Oct. 25, 2022), review denied (Jan. 18, 2023).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s nuisance claim is based on allegations that Defendants’ have
blocked Plaintiff from accessing and using the shared driveway, and have obstructed
his views of the Los Angeles Basin from his property. 
 
“The
violation of a penal ordinance does not create a private nuisance per se.” (City
and County of San Francisco v. Burton (1962) 201 Cal.App.2d 749, 757.) “It
was up to the plaintiffs to show an injury to them based on acts sufficient to
constitute a nuisance.” (Ibid.) Moreover, “to state a cause of action
related to a violation of the building code, plaintiff must show that he has
suffered some exceptional damage other than that suffered by the public
generally.” (Taliaferro v. Salyer (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 685, 691 [“As
plaintiff has no easement of light and air he cannot complain…of the shutting
off of light and air to his property.”].) Indeed, the court in Taliaferro v.
Salyer (Taliaferro) stated that while a government can restrict the
height of fences, a violation of this restriction does not necessarily grant a
private individual a cause of action related to such violation. (Ibid.)
 
In Taliaferro,
the plaintiff brought a claim against the defendants for allegedly building
structures and a fence in violation of the building codes of the County of
Contra Costa and that were higher than the plaintiff’s building, which
interfered with the plaintiff’s easement for light and air. (Id. at p.
688.) The issue posed is whether an adjoining property owner can recover
damages from an adjoining owner who constructs a structure and fence above the
limits proscribed by the building code for alleged interference with light and
air. (Id. at p.689.) The court determined the answer is no because a
“landowner has no easement over adjoining land for light and air” and “the
limitations in a building code do not confer on an adjoining landowner any such
easement.” (Ibid.) Indeed, a landowner with no right to light and air
from adjoining land “cannot claim damages when the adjoining landowner does
something strictly on his own property which shuts off the air and light
previously coming over the first landowner’s property.” (Ibid.)
Therefore, just because a plaintiff may allege the value of his property is
damaged by the proximity of the unlawful structures, it does not entitle him to
damages or to have the structures declared a nuisance. (Id. at p. 691.)
 
Under
California law a landowner has no right to an unobstructed view over adjoining
property, and ‘the law is reluctant to imply such a right.’” (Eisen v.
Tavangarian (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 626, 635.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff admitted that he has no view easement over 320 Trousdale or an
agreement with Aghaipour regarding Nehoray’s right to a view:
 
                        
Q.
And do you have a view easement?
 
A.
Easement, no. 
 
Q. Do you
have some sort of written agreement with Mr. Aghipour about protecting some
kind of view from your property?
 
 A. We had discussions about protecting my view
from the property early on, as I have provided in texts to counsel. 
 
Q. Did he
ever enter into an agreement with you where your view would be protected? 
 
A. No. 
 
(SS 45.)
 
Moreover,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that any interference was
not unreasonable. 
 
To prevail on
a nuisance claim, the plaintiff must prove that the “invasion of the
plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land was substantial,
i.e., that it caused the plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial actual damage.’” (Monks
v. City of Rancho Palos Verdes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 263, 303, as modified
on denial of reh'g (Oct. 22, 2008).) The invasion must be “definitely
offensive, seriously annoying or intolerable.” (Ibid.) “The degree of
harm is to be judged by an objective standard.” (Ibid.) An invasion is
significant only if normal persons in that area would be substantially annoyed
or disturbed by the situation. (Ibid.) In other words, the invasion is
not considered a nuisance if the invasion is offensive to an overly sensitive
plaintiff.
 
Moreover, the
interference with the protected interest must be unreasonable. (Id.)
“The primary test for determining whether the invasion is unreasonable is
whether the gravity of the harm outweighs the social utility of the defendant's
conduct.” (Id.) The standard for this is also objective. (Id.)
Therefore, the question is “whether reasonable persons generally, looking at
the whole situation impartially and objectively, would consider it
unreasonable.” (Id.) In other words, the particular plaintiff’s opinion
is irrelevant. (Id.)
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that Plaintiff was able to continue using the
driveway even though the construction workers parked on the driveway, and that
the Driveway Easement does not prohibit people from parking on the driveway.
(SS 46-47.) Defendant also submitted evidence that the parties did not have any
agreement to maintain the hedge to a certain height above the boundary wall and
that Plaintiff admitted that Aghaipour had a right to cut any part of the hedge
that is located on Aghaipour’s side of the boundary wall:
 
Q. Did you
and Mr. Aghaipour have any agreement to maintain the hedge three feet about the
wall located on Mr. Aghaipour’s property? 
 
A. Explicit
agreement, no.
 
…
 
Q. You would
agree that him removing his side of the hedge on his side of the wall on a wall
that’s located on his property, that can’t be trespass, right, based on your
definition? 
 
A. Yes. 
 
Q. And that
to the extent he’s cutting any part of the hedge on top of the wall that
doesn’t go into your airspace on your property, since the wall is entirely
located on his property, that can’t be trespass either; right? 
 
A. Agreed.
Let me add that the ivy, when they grow, they intertwine, so you cannot be
certain that the ivy that was cut grew on this side of the wall or the other
side of the wall.
 
Q. But if
someone’s plants grow over the property line that’s encroaching on your side of
the property, right, so you would – if some huge branch or something was growing
all the way over on your property line, you would consider it to be encroaching
and you would have a right to remove it; right? 
 
A. I’m
assuming so.
 
(SS 42-43.) 
 
Defendant
also submitted evidence that it did not expand the level of the pad. While the
pad may have been slightly larger than the size of the pad pursuant to a survey
obtained in 2016, which the City had previously approved, Defendants eventually
returned it to the size pursuant to the 2016 survey. (SS 49.) Moreover, the
City approved the hardscape plan, which included the level pad, along with the
landscaping plan. (SS 50-53.)
 
Finally, the
only damages that Plaintiff sought for his nuisance claim is diminution in
value damages; however, damages for diminution in value are not recoverable for
continuing nuisances. (Gehr v. Baker Hughes Oil Field Operations, Inc.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 660, 663.) A nuisance that can be discontinued at any
time is considered continuing in nature. (Baker v. Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena
Airport Authority (1985) 39 Cal.3d 862, 869.) Moreover, a “diminution in
value does not interfere with the present use of property and cannot alone
constitute a nuisance.” (Oliver v. AT&T Wireless Services (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 521, 534.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff failed to substantively respond to these arguments or
dispute Defendants’ undisputed material facts. Accordingly, Plaintiff has
failed to disclose a triable issue as to this claim. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 