  Case Number:  22PSCV02241    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Omolara
Osinowo v. Doe 1, et al. 
Defendant
Charter Oak Unified School District’s to Stay Proceedings 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Charter Oak Unified School District’s
motion to stay proceedings. This action is hereby STAYED pending the resolution
of West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No.
A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6,
Case No. B334707) in the Court of Appeal. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a childhood sexual assault case. On December 2, 2022, plaintiff
Omolara Osinowo (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Doe 1 and Does
2 through 25. On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (FAC), in which defendant Charter Oak Unified School District (Defendant)
was substituted for Doe 1, alleging causes of action for negligence (Defendant),
negligence (Does 2 through 25), negligent hiring, retention, and supervision (Defendant),
and negligent hiring, retention, and supervision (Does 2 through 25). 
On May 3, 2024, Defendant moved to stay this action pending the
outcome of two unrelated cases on appeal. On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff opposed
the motion. On May 29, 2024, Defendant replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
A party can ask the court to stay an action
or proceeding
based on the court's inherent power to stay in the interest of justice and
to promote judicial efficiency. See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1 (vesting courts with
judicial power); CCP § 128 (giving court power in proceedings before it); Adams v. Paul
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 (court has inherent power to stay related
actions); Smith
v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 (court has right to
postpone case); Koch-Ash v. Superior Ct. (2d Dist.1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 689, 696 (court has inherent authority to stay trial); see also Walker v. Superior Ct. (1991) 53
Cal.3d 257, 266–67 (California Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized inherent
power of courts, derived from both statute and Constitution, to ensure orderly
administration of justice).

(§ 3. Stay, O'Connor's
California Practice * Civil Pretrial Ch. 5-I § 3 (2024 ed.)) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d).) But, the Court takes judicial notice
only as to the existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does
not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein.
(Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.) 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice, as there is no indication
Plaintiff relies on them in the opposition. (See Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (a)-(d).) 
DISCUSSION 
            Summary of
Arguments 
            Defendant
moves to stay this action based on two unrelated cases that are currently
pending before the First and Second Districts of the Court of Appeal, i.e., West
Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe #2 v.
Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707),
respectively. Both of these cases involve the question of whether AB 218
violates the Gift Clause of the California Constitution, an issue underlying
this current litigation. Defendant contends that judicial economy and common
sense mandate the Court exercise its inherent power to stay these proceedings
pending the outcomes of these two other cases in the Court of Appeal. Defendant
contends that this case would not be able to proceed if the Court of Appeal
determines AB 218 is unconstitutional. 
Defendant contends the case will almost certainly
be reversed on appeal, which would render all work performed before then
wasteful. Defendant also contends it cannot settle this case while those two
cases are before the Court of Appeal. Defendant cites the case of Farmland
Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208 (Farmland Irrigation),
as the standard for determining whether to grant a stay. Defendant then
contends that the only way to ensure the decision in this case will not
conflict with the decisions in the two currently pending Court of Appeal cases
is to stay this case until those other cases have been decided. Defendant
further contends the rights of the parties can best be determined by the Court
of Appeal because of the nature of the subject matter and the stage to which
proceedings in courts have already advanced. Defendant also contends that
staying this action will not prejudice Plaintiff’s rights. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendant has
not made any showing it is likely to succeed on the merits. Plaintiff contends
other trial court decisions regarding the constitutionality of AB 218 are not
binding on this court. Plaintiff contends that although there is no evidence of
how the Court of Appeal will rule on the Jane Doe case, the Second
District of the Court of Appeal and the California Supreme Court summarily
denied writ petitions on related issues regarding AB 218. Plaintiff contends
that if the Court of Appeal provides conflicting rulings, then the trial courts
will be in the same position they are already in and just rely on the precedent
they choose to follow, and then the California Supreme Court would have to step
in, which could take years. 
Plaintiff cites the case of Nken v. Holder (2009)
556 U.S. 418 (Nken) regarding the factors for the Court to consider
regarding the requested stay. Plaintiff contends the injury to Plaintiff and
the public interest weigh in favor of denying the stay, given the Legislature’s
purpose behind AB 218, which was to provide victims of childhood sexual abuse a
path forward to seek justice against those who abused them. Plaintiff contends
the public’s interest will not be served by delay, as the probability of death
of witnesses and destruction or loss of evidence increases with time. Plaintiff
contends appeals can take a minimum of two years to decide, and at that point
the losing party will likely petition the California Supreme Court for review. 
Applicable Standard for Stay of Proceedings 
The Court finds that the factors set forth in Farmland
Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208 (Farmland Irrigation)
to be inapposite to this case. Farmland Irrigation involved multiple
cases with the same facts and parties between courts of different
jurisdictions, i.e., courts of different states. (Farmland Irrigation,
supra, 48 Cal.2d at p. 215 [older “When
an action is brought in a court of this state involving the same parties and
the same subject matter as an action already pending in a court of another
jurisdiction, a stay of the California proceedings is not a matter of
right, but within the sound discretion of the trial court.”]) That is clearly
not the case here, as there is no evidence that this action involves the same
parties or the court of a different state as those in the two cases currently
pending before the Court of Appeal. (See Motion, 3:1-4:21.) 
The Court also finds the Nken case that
Plaintiff cited to be inapposite, as that is a United States Supreme Court case
decided in the context of a federal statute and originated in federal
immigration court. (Nken, supra, 556 U.S. at p. 427.) Nken also
does not appear to have been cited by any California courts as persuasive or
binding authority. 
The Court finds that the applicable factors for
consideration here are those set forth in Smith v. Jones
(1900) 128 Cal. 14, which provides that courts may postpone cases when, “it
would not only be the right of the judge to do so, but it would be his duty, in
the interest of justice, and to promote the substantial rights of the parties.”
(Smith v. Jones, supra, 128
Cal. at p. 15.) 
Analysis 
The Court finds that staying this action pending the resolution of
West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934)
and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case
No. B334707) in the Court of Appeal would be in the best interest of justice
and promote the substantial rights of the parties. (See Smith v. Jones,
supra, 128 Cal. at p. 15.) Trial courts may reasonably decide that the
rights of the parties would be best determined by a different court where the
other court resolves broader issues. (See Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State
Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800 (Caiafa) [trial
court could reasonably decide that the rights of the parties would be best
determined in related federal case which raised much broader issues than the
California state court case].) If the Court of Appeal finds that AB 218
violates the Gift Clause of the California Constitution, it would directly
affect the continued viability of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant. The
parties’ continued litigation while awaiting the decisions on these cases could
lead to the expenditure of unnecessary resources, which is particularly
important considering Defendant’s funding is from taxpayer dollars. (Cf. Stanson v. Mott (1976) 17 Cal.3d 206, 209-210 [decision
regarding expenditure of public funds in connection with a partisan position in
an election campaign].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to stay proceedings. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Charter Oak Unified School District’s
motion to stay proceedings. This action is hereby STAYED pending the resolution
of West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No.
A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6,
Case No. B334707) in the Court of Appeal. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.