 Case Number:  24STCV03114    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.  68 Date:  4-26-24 c/f 4-24-24  Case  #24STCV03114 Trial  Date: Not Set   INJUNCTION   MOVING  PARTY: Plaintiff, Chan Sook Kim RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant, Jane Choi   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  for Preliminary Injunction   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Plaintiff  Chan Kim owns and occupies certain real property located at 116 S. Berendo St.,  Los Angeles. On January 4, 2024, Defendant Choi acquired possession of 108 S.  Berendo St., Los Angeles. The two properties are adjacent and share a common  driveway. Upon the acquisition of 108 S. Berendo, however, according to Kim,  Choi claimed exclusive use of the driveway. Choi alternatively demanded payment  of $2,000/month for use. On January 29, 2024, Choi began building a fence  without a permit purportedly in direct violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code  section 12.21. Choi also parked two to three cars to block the driveway.    On  February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a verified complaint for Quiet Title to an  Implied Easement, Quiet Title to a Prescriptive or Equitable Easement, and  Nuisance. On February 8, 2024, the court granted the temporary restraining  order enjoining defendant Choi from interfering with or blocking Plaintiff’s  right to vehicular ingress and egress to Plaintiff’s property via the paved  shared common driveway straddling the properties. The order included removal of  any objects or posts placed by Defendant, as well, that block or obstruct  Plaintiff’s access rights. The court set a hearing for preliminary injunction.    On  February 15, 2024, the court vacated the February 8, 2024, and granted  Plaintiff’s renewed ex parte application. The order was entered in part to  rectify the prior, acknowledged improper service issue. The court reiterated  the temporary restraining order parameters, and additionally ordered the  posting of a $5,000 undertaking. The court again set the hearing for the  preliminary injunction.     On  February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a civil bond showing the posting of the  $5,000 bond. On March 6, 2024, the court denied Plaintiff’s motion for  clarification of the amended temporary restraining order. The court however  ordered the removal of “the full, complete, and entire fence/barrier” within  seven (7) days of the order. If the fence was not removed within seven (7) days  of the order, the court authorized Plaintiff to remove the barrier at the  expense of Defendant. The court denied Defendant’s request for an increased  bond amount.   On  April 5, 2024, Choi answered the complaint, and filed a verified  cross-complaint against Kim for Trespass, Nuisance, Quiet Title, Declaratory  Relief, and Injunctive Relief.  On  April 17, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed New Wave Lending Group, Inc.   RULING: Granted. Plaintiff Chan Kim moves for a preliminary injunction against Defendant  Jane Choi enjoining any blocking of the common shared driveway. Defendant Jang  Choi in opposition maintains an improper basis for the injunction in that  Plaintiff seeks to allow tenants occupying the property to improperly use the  driveway as a parking lot in demarcated spots along the driveway. Plaintiff in  reply maintains a likelihood of prevailing on the merits, and the balance of  equities favor Plaintiff.    In  ruling on a motion for preliminary injunction, the court first considers both  the likelihood of prevailing on the merits and irreparable harm. (Millennium Rock Mortg., Inc. v. T.D. Service  Co. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 804, 812.) “An evaluation of the relative harm  to the parties upon the granting or denial of a preliminary injunction requires  consideration of: ‘(1) the inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of  irreparable injury the denial of the injunction will cause; (3) the necessity  to preserve the status quo; [and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the  public interest or interests of third parties the granting of the injunction  will cause.’” (Vo v. City of Garden Grove  (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.) “‘[T]he more likely it is that plaintiffs  will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they allege will  occur if the injunction does not issue .... [I]t is the mix of these factors  that guides the trial court in its exercise of discretion.’” (Right Site Coalition v. Los Angeles Unified  School Dist. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 336, 342.) “The ultimate questions on a  motion for a preliminary injunction are (1) whether the plaintiff is 'likely to  suffer greater injury from a denial of the injunction than the defendants are  likely to suffer from its grant,’ and (2) whether there is ‘a reasonable  probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits’” (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007) 150  Cal.App.4th 400, 408. Procedurally, an application for a preliminary  injunction, must be based upon sufficient evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., §527 subd. (a); Bank of America v. Williams (1948) 89  Cal.App.2d 21, 29.)   “[T]he general  rule is that an injunction is prohibitory if it requires a  person to refrain from a particular act and mandatory if it  compels performance of an affirmative act that changes the position of the  parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997)  52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.)  “An injunction designed to preserve the status quo as between  the parties and to restrain illegal conduct is prohibitory,  not mandatory, and does not require heightened appellate scrutiny.” (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th  1036, 1048.) “The granting of a mandatory  injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the  right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70  Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.)    Plaintiff represents that Choi removed the previously placed  fence in compliance with the March 6, 2024, order of the court. Choi agrees to  no barriers in the driveway, as long as Plaintiff adheres to the same  requirement. Choi additionally and separately requests an order barring the  parking of cars on the driveway.    The temporary restraining order  and requested injunction itself only considers enjoining Defendant from any  form of blocking the common driveway. The court appreciates the counter request  from Defendant to also enjoin alleged use of the common driveway as an  effective functioning parking lot for Plaintiff’s tenants, but any such request  for injunctive relief is not presented in the motion, and the court declines to  consider the opposition as a counter-motion for relief. The court only  considers the motion as preserving the status quo, which may include continued  patterns and practices of cars using the driveway pending further adjudication.  With that being said and having observed pictures via exhibits of the narrow  driveway at issue, the Court does not contemplate that such usage would include  serving as a parking lot.   Probability of Success on the Merits The operative complaint alleges Quiet  Title to an Implied Easement, Quiet Title to a Prescriptive or Equitable  Easement, and Nuisance. The motion itself lacks any specific address or  evidentiary support for a prescriptive easement. “The  elements necessary to establish a prescriptive easement are, with the exception  of the requirement that taxes be paid,[] identical with those required to prove acquisition of  title by adverse possession: open and notorious use or possession that is  continuous and uninterrupted, hostile to the true owner, and under a claim of  right.” (Taormino v. Denny (1970) 1 Cal.3d 679, 686.) Kim admits to ignorance of any  property line prior to the time Choi started placing the fence in the area, and  it still remains unclear as to any property line boundaries. [Declaration of  Chan Sook Kim.] The court therefore declines to make any finding on the merits  in favor of Plaintiff on this claim.   An equitable easement constitutes an alternative basis of  discretionary court relief to a legally based prescriptive easement. (Hirshfield v.  Schwartz (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 749,  769, 771; Tashakori v. Lakis (2011)  196 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1008 [“In appropriate  cases in which the requirements for traditional easements are not present,  California courts have exercised their equity powers to fashion protective  interests in land belonging to another, sometimes referring to such an interest  as an ‘equitable easement’”].) “For a  trial court to exercise its discretion … and grant an equitable easement,  ‘three factors must be present. First, the defendant must be innocent. That is,  his or her encroachment must not be willful or negligent. The court should  consider the parties' conduct to determine who is responsible for the dispute.  Second, unless the rights of the public would be harmed, the court should grant  the injunction if the plaintiff ‘will suffer irreparable injury ...  regardless of the injury to defendant.’ Third, the hardship to the defendant ‘must  be greatly disproportionate to the hardship caused plaintiff by the continuance  of the encroachment and this fact must clearly appear in the evidence and must  be proved by the defendant....’” (Nellie Gail Ranch Owners Association v.  McMullin (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 982, 1003–1004.)   Plaintiff also provides a  conclusive citation without specific reference to the specific portion of the  case or particular issue addressed, and without actual proper citation. (Romero v. Shih (2022) 78  Cal.App.5th 326.) Notwithstanding the court cites and considers the case.   The California Supreme Court  granted review of the case. “Grant of review by the Supreme Court of a  decision by the Court of Appeal does not affect the appellate court's  certification of the opinion for full or partial publication under rule  8.1105(b) or rule 8.1110, but any such Court of Appeal opinion, whether  officially published in hard copy or electronically, must be accompanied by a  prominent notation advising that review by the Supreme Court has been granted.  [¶] (2) The Supreme Court may order that an opinion certified for publication  is not to be published or that an opinion not certified is to be published. The  Supreme Court may also order depublication of part of an opinion at any time  after granting review.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1105(e)(1)(B), (e)(2).) “Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court's  opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion  of a Court  of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited  for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal  opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the  Supreme Court.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, 8.1115(e)(1).)    The case was not decertified and  therefore remains subject to citation. The court finds the circumstances  support a finding for consideration of an equitable easement. (See Romero v. Shih, supra,  78 Cal.App.5th at p. 355.) Nothing in the evidence indicates a willful act,  especially given the prior pattern and practice, and ignorance of the property  boundary. The court finds no basis of public harm, as addressed below finds the  irreparable harm factor favors Plaintiff. The court also finds the balance of  equities favors Plaintiff, as also discussed in this order.    Irreparable Harm The  disputed easement supports a finding of interim harm requiring injunction, due  to impacts on the ingress and egress of vehicles to the property. Said damages  are not readily determined as a function of monetary damages without further factual  consideration not readily determined in the subject motion. (Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1177, 1184.)    Balance of Equities “‘The  granting or denial of a preliminary injunction does not amount to an  adjudication of the ultimate rights in controversy. It merely determines that  the court, balancing the respective equities of the parties, concludes that,  pending a trial on the merits, the defendant should or that he should not be  restrained from exercising the right claimed by him.’ (Citations.) The general purpose of such an injunction  is the preservation of the status quo until a final determination of the merits  of the action. (Citations.) Thus, the court examines all of the material before  it in order to consider ‘whether a greater injury will result to the defendant  from granting the injunction than to the plaintiff from refusing it; * * *’” (Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 528.) “[A] principal objective of a  preliminary injunction ‘is to minimize the harm which an erroneous interim decision  may cause,’ and thus a court faced with the question whether to grant a  preliminary injunction cannot ignore the possibility that its initial  assessment of the merits, prior to a full adjudication, may turn out to be in  error.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 561.)   The balance of equities also  favors Plaintiff given the history of use of the disputed area only to change  upon the acquisition of the property by Defendant Choi in January 2024. Nothing  in the opposition establishes any particular harm to Choi as a result of the  continuing use, including even allegedly parked vehicles, pending adjudication.     The motion for preliminary  injunction is therefore granted. The court orders no further action blocking  ingress or egress of the driveway.    The court in no way otherwise  orders any form of mandatory relief, such as removal of the fence given its  removal. The court also declines to consider any injunction barring the parking  of cars under any purported violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Code not  before the court in the instant motion. Again, the issue is not before the  court, and the court finds prior use allows for the continuing conduct pending  adjudication, due to the lack of any showing of significant harm to Defendant. The  parties may attempt to negotiate potential solutions in the interim.    The court also requests Plaintiff  to update the court on the necessity of the June 13, 2024, set motion for  modification of the injunction given the removal of the fence. An answer to the  cross-complaint remains outstanding.    Case Management Conference set for  June 11, 2024.   Plaintiff to give notice.