  Case Number:  22TRCV01380    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 13, 2023
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01380
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Dyniesha
Curtis, Corey Lee v. Kai T. Tsukiyama, et al.
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Kai T. Tsukiyama and Junko T. Tsukiyama,
Trustees of The Mirai Trust
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Corey Lee (Omnibus Objection filed)
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.  
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1)
Motion for Order Compelling Dyniesha Curtis’ Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Nos. 6.4-6.7, 10.1-10.3, 11.2, 12.4, 12.6-12.7, 14.1-14.2,
17.1, and 50.2 
                                                (2)
Motion for Order Compelling Corey Lee’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Nos 10.1-10.3,
11.2, 12.4, 12.6-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 17.1, and 50.2
                                                (3)
Motion for Order Compelling Corey Lee’s Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Nos. 4-6, 8-13, 16, 18, 20-26, 28-30, 32, 39, and 41

                                                (4)
Request for Sanctions
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Granted.  Verified further responses, without objections,
are ordered to be served on Defense counsel within 30 days, i.e., by January 12,
2024 unless the time is further extended in writing by agreement of the parties
/ counsel 
                                                (2)
Granted, same as for Motion (1)
                                                (3)
Granted in part and denied in part as noted below
                                                (4)
Request for Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,500.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
 
            On
December 2, 2022, Plaintiffs, Cory Lee and Dyniesha Curtis (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Kai T. Tsukiyama, Junko T. Tsukiyama,
Trustee of The Mirai Trust, Mirai Trust, Arnold L. Graff, Wright, Finlay, &
Zak, LLP, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Use and Enjoyment; (2) Negligent
Violation of Statutory Duty; (3) Intentional Violation of Statutory Duty; (4)
Retaliation/Constructive Eviction; (5) Negligent Breach of the Implied Warranty
of Habitability; (6) Intentional Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (7)
Nuisance (Negligent); (8) Nuisance (Intentional); (9) Negligence; and (10)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
            On April 6, 2023, Defendants
propounded identical written discovery to both Plaintiffs as follows: (1)
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; (2) Special Interrogatories, Set
One; (3) Form Interrogatories, Set One; and (4) Requests for Admissions, Set
One. Responses were due on May 11, 2023. Defendants assert that responses were
timely filed, but that Plaintiffs’ responses to each of the listed discovery
requests were insufficient. On September 28, 2023, an IDC took place, and
Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed that compliant responses would be provided.
Defendant’s counsel sent an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel after the IDC
proposing that compliant supplemental responses to all requests noted in the
meet and confer letter be produced no later than October 30, 2023, and any
motion to compel deadline shall be tolled until November 22, 2023. Defense
counsel states that no response was received, and thus, Defendant has filed
these motions to compel. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            On October
13 2023, Defendants filed these Motions to Compel Further Responses. To
date, no opposition has been filed, but Plaintiffs did file an “Omnibus
Objection” on December 6, 2023 asserting that Defendants had waived their right
to bring a motion to compel under the 45-day rule.  On December 7, 2023, Defendants replied to the
Omnibus Objections. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days
after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
 
            Further, where there has
been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the
demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from
waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is
no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond,
the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before
filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection
demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
            In
the Court’s Courtroom Information rules, the Court noted its support for the concept
of informal discovery conferences, and encouraged parties to use an IDC even
after the statutory IDC provisions have since sunset.  The Court regularly conducts IDCs as an investment
in saving parties’ and the Court’s time in working up and ruling on discovery
motions.  The Courtroom Information page
specifically states that the 45-day statutory time to bring a motion to compel
is ordered to be tolled through the date an IDC is completed.  Here, the Court conducted an IDC on September
28, 2023.
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that in its
September 28, 2023 minute order, it ordered the parties to meaningfully meet
and confer regarding discovery following the IDC conducted that day. Per
Defendants’ motion, it appears that the parties have not done so. The Court
will require that Plaintiffs’ counsel explain why there has been no response to
Defendant’s post-IDC efforts to resolve the discovery issues raised in
Defendants’ 13-page IDC statement and issues the Court had understood were
agreed upon by the parties at the IDC. 
 
The Court has read and considered the Omnibus Objection to the
discovery motions belated filed by counsel for Plaintiff a week after the deadline
for filing an opposition to the motions. 
Because Defendants were able to file a Reply to the tardy objection
within a day and therefore suffered no prejudice from the late-filed
objections, the Court considers the merits of the omnibus objection.  The Court overrules the Plaintiffs’ omnibus
objection because the pending IDC tolled the time to bring motions to compel
through September 28, and the Court conducted the IDC with both counsel who
appeared to the Court to be actively participating in good faith in the IDC
process.  Even though the IDC statute has
sunset, the Court’s management and control of its own docket and the Court’s
authority to issue directives and orders for the benefit of all parties has not
sunset.  In the Court’s view, the time to
bring a motion to compel issues raised in the IDC was tolled through the
completion of the IDC on September 28, 2023, a point the Omnibus Objections
fails to address.  
 
Motion for Order Compelling Dyniesha Curtis’ Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Nos. 6.4-6.7, 10.1-10.3, 11.2, 12.4,
12.6-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 17.1, and 50.2
 
            In
response to each of the form interrogatories, Dyniesha Curtis only gave partial
responses at best, or no response at all. The Court finds Dyniesha
Curtis’s responses to each of the listed form interrogatories to be evasive as
she needs to provide responses to each subsection of the requested information.
For the requests in which Plaintiff Curtis responded “N/A,” that answer is not
responsive as Defendant (much less the Court) has no way of knowing if Curtis
is indicating that she does not have whatever the request is asking, or whether
Curtis is indicating she does not believe the request is applicable to the
case. Lastly, as for Plaintiff Curtis’s responses that only contain objections,
the objections are not warranted. This Court notes that Form Interrogatories
are approved requests from the Judicial Council of the State of California that
are found to be applicable and relevant in civil bodily injury cases. As such,
the objections without providing further responses are not appropriate
responses. As such, this Court GRANTS this Motion to Compel further Responses. 
 
 
Motion for Order Compelling Corey Lee’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Nos 10.1-10.3, 11.2, 12.4, 12.6-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 17.1, and
50.2
 
The same analysis and ruling
pertains to the motion to compel Plaintiff Corey Lee to respond further to the subject
interrogatories.   As such, this Court GRANTS this Motion to
Compel further Responses.
 
Motion for Order Compelling Corey Lee’s Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 4-6, 8-13, 16, 18, 20-26, 28-30, 32, 39, and
41
 
            SROGS
4-6 request Plaintiff to identify any and all written lease agreements for the
subject garage unit claimed to exist from June 2013 to the present between
Plaintiffs and Kai Tsukiyama (No. 4), Junko Tsukiyama (No. 5), and Jennifer
Tsukiyama (No. 6).  In response to SROGS
4-6, Lee responded: “The lease agreement attached to the amended complaint
entered into by Jennifer, Kai, and Corey.” Defendants argue that there is no
lease agreement attached to the amended complaint, however, the Court notes
that attached to the First Amended Complaint, as Exhibit “A” is what appears to
be a Residential Lease/Rental Agreement between the Defendant Landlords and
Plaintiff, Corey Lee. Defendants also argue that it is improper to answer an
interrogatory by simply referencing another document. The Court disagrees as
the document has been provided to Defendants since the filing of the First
Amended Complaint. As such, the Court DENIES the motion for further responses
as to SROGS 4-6.
 
            SROGS
8, 10, 12, 13, 16, and 18 ask each Plaintiff to identify any notice(s) they
provided Defendants of the various issues Plaintiffs are claiming “plagued” the
subject Garage Unit. Plaintiff’s response to each of these interrogatories was:
“I provided text messages.” The Court finds that this is an insufficient
response to each of the interrogatories. Defendants contend that no text
messages were provided, so Plaintiffs cannot fairly reply on a production of documents
to memorialize the dates and content of each text notice to Defendants. The
Court finds that these responses are insufficient, unresponsive, and evasive.
As such, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel further responses to SROGS 8,
10, 12, 13, 16, and 18. 
 
            SROGS
9 and 11 ask for all facts supporting Plaintiff’s allegation that “Plaintiff’s
(sic) were and still are plagued with…termite infestation since January 2019”
(No. 9) and “Rats and mice” (No. 11). Plaintiff’s responses stated, ““Defendant
has not employed a pest control company to exterminate the termites” “nor plug
up the holes in the garage to keep the vermin out.” Defendants argue that these
responses were evasive and insufficient because they fail to state more than a
most basic fact with respect to the alleged termite infestation and rodents,
the relevant time frames, the scope or location of the alleged termites and
rodents, or any other relevant information to support the allegations made in
the FAC or establish any damages resulting therefrom. The Court agrees.
Although the Court finds that Plaintiff’s response is minimal at best, the response
reflects a blasé attitude towards discovery and a dismissive approach towards Plaintiffs’
obligation to provide all facts upon which its contentions are based.   As
such, the Court GRANTS the motion as to SROGS 9 and 11 and requires Plaintiff
to provide further responses. If Plaintiff does not have any additional facts
to support this allegation, it can respond indicating such and prepare to be
limited at trial to the evidence Plaintiffs will be permitted to present to the
trier of fact.
 
            SROG
20 asks each Plaintiff to identify any notice(s) they provided Defendant of the
alleged “lack of heating” at the subject garage unit. Plaintiff responded:
“They knew at the time they rented the garage that it did not have a heater.
They also were on notice when they did their annual inspection.” Defendants
argue that this response is evasive and non-responsive. The Court agrees. The
interrogatory requests notices the PLAINTIFFS provided to Defendants. The
answer does not reflect one in which responds to this interrogatory. As such,
the Court GRANTS the motion to compel further as to SROG 20. If Plaintiffs
never provided such a notice, the further response should so state.
 
            SROGS
23-26 ask each Plaintiffs to identify all treatments received by any medical
practitioner for their alleged asthma and miscarriages (Nos. 23 and 25), along
with a listing of the name and contact information of each medical practitioner
who treated them (Nos. 24 and 26.) Plaintiff responded as follows: “I saw my
physician at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center” with respect to any miscarriage,
“Albuterol, Breathing treatments” with respect to any asthma treatments, and
“Kaiser Permanente Medical Center” alone with regard to any treating medical
practitioners. Defendants argue that this response is insufficient as the
interrogatories included terms like “identify” and “list” which required
Plaintiff to state facts as to each treatment received, for what purpose, and
provide the names and contact information of any and all treating medical
practitioners. The Court agrees. No doctor or nurse practitioner is identified by
name.  Plaintiff’s responses to SROGS
23-26 are insufficient. As such, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel
further responses to SROGS 23-26. Names of the human beings, not the location
where the human beings work, were the trust of the interrogatories.
 
            SROGS
28-30, and 32 ask each Plaintiff to identify any and all medical records
relating to the alleged asthma and miscarriages as asserted in the FAC, (No.’s
28, 29), state all facts supporting the allegation that Plaintiffs incurred
medical expenses and other damages as a result of the miscarriages as asserted
in the FAC (No. 30), and identify all notice(s) Plaintiffs provided Defendants
of the alleged miscarriages purportedly resulting from the Garage Unit’s
condition (No. 32.) Plaintiff objected to each request stating that the
interrogatories were compound and request answering party to address three
different issues. The Court disagrees. Each of the requests separates the
alleged sufferings of Plaintiff into different interrogatories. As such, the Court
GRANTS the motion as to SROGS 28-30, and 32.  Plaintiffs are entitled to respond to these interrogatories
by producing the requested documents in lieu of listing the amounts paid or
describing the medical records, but if Plaintiffs claim that the conditions of the
garage caused specific medical conditions and a pregnancy outcome, discovery
into these areas is permissible.  
 
            SROG
39 asks each Plaintiff to identify what breathing treatments they currently
take and the name and contact information of any treating medical practitioner.
Plaintiff responded: “Albuterol, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center.” The Court
finds this response to be evasive for the same reason as with response to SROGs
24 and 26.  A human being, i.e., a doctor
or nurse practitioner rather than the location or facility where she or he
works is required.   As such, the Court GRANTS the motion as to
SROG 39 and orders Plaintiff to provide a response that provides the name,
contact information, and treating medical practitioner. 
 
            SROG
41 asked each Plaintiff to state all facts supporting their allegation that
“Defendants, and each of them, failed to investigate and respond to complaints
by Plaintiffs in a professional manner.” Plaintiff responded: “Jennifer was too
demented to do anything and Kai had very unaffected attitude about the state of
disrepair of the garage.” Defendants argue that this response is evasive and
non-responsive since Plaintiff failed to state any facts or information as to
any actual complaints made by Plaintiffs, the timing of said complaints, the
nature and scope of the complaints, Defendants’ receipt of said complaints, or
any failure on Defendants part to act or respond to any identified complaint.
Although the Court finds that Plaintiff’s response is provides some minimal
information, the Court GRANTS the motion as to SROG 41 and requires Plaintiff
to provide further facts if they exist. If Plaintiff does not have facts to
support this allegation, it can respond indicating such. 
C.    Sanctions 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
Here, Defendants have requested
$2,647.25 per motion against Plaintiff and their counsel. This is based on
Defendants’ counsel 4.55 hours of time at a billing rate of $395 per hour
($1,797.25/motion.) Defendants’ counsel also anticipated he would incur an
additional 2 hours of time to respond to an opposition and to attend the
hearing on said motion, as well as the $60 filing fee/motion. Here, the Court
believes Defendants’ counsel’s billing rate is somewhat on the high side,
however, at least with the two motions to compel further responses to the
Requests for Production of Documents, the motions are virtually the same.
Additionally, no opposition was filed but some time was incurred in addressing the
Omnibus Objections. As such, this Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for
sanctions in the lowered amount of $2,500 total payable within 30 days by Plaintiffs
and their counsel to defense counsel.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice. 
 