 Case Number:  YC072196    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 13, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      YC072196
¿ 
CASE NAME:                            Toshiko Nakamura; Takashi Nakamura v. Nourit Korzennik, et
al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants, Toshika and Takashi
Nakamura 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Nourit Karzennik
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Enforce Settlement Agreement 
 
Tentative
Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED in part. 
The motion to enforce is granted, liquidated damages are stayed through
1/1/24, Defendant shall vacate by 1/1/24 or be subject to the liquidated
damages amount per violation, and $2,500 in reasonable attorney’s fees are
awarded.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
This lawsuit is based on Plaintiffs’
alleged suffering years of mistreatment at the hands of their uphill-neighbor
in Rolling Hills, Nourit Korzennik, Korzennik’s alleged torment of the
Nakamuras included, but was not limited to: spitting on Mrs. Nakamura; mooning
Mrs. Nakamura and her family; performing sexually offensive and lewd gestures
toward the Nakamuras; illegally trespassing onto the Nakamura’s property twice
and chopping down their trees that spanned 365 feet; trapping the Nakamuras in
their car; photographing and recording the Nakamura’s and their family, along
with workers and visitors without their consent, including by the use of
drones; harassing and preventing utility and other workers from entering the
Nakamura property – going so far as to hit a worker with her car – promoting a
call to the Los Angeles County Sherriff’s Office on this and many other
occasions; Sherriff’s Officers advising the Nakamuras to obtain a restraining
order on multiple occasions to protect their personal safety, which followed up
on twice; Korennik’s multiple frivolous lawsuits against the Nakamuras; and
abuse of the administrative process to block the rebuilding of the Nakamura
family home that burned in a fire over a decade ago. 
 
Plaintiffs note that in October 22, the
parties were able to reach a settlement agreement. Plaintiffs note that the
primary consideration for the settlement, as exemplified by the position of the
settlement term in the second sentence of the settlement, was Korzennick’s
agreement to vacate their residence that was located next door to Plaintiffs’
residence no later than August 16, 2023. Plaintiffs also note that Korzennik
agreed to pay $1,000 per breach in liquidated damages, and agreed to pay the
Nakamuras’ attorney’s fees and costs in the event of breach. Plaintiffs also
contend that before the matter was dismissed pursuant to the settlement, the
parties filed with the Court a stipulation to retain jurisdiction and that
stipulation was filed on November 28, 2022. Plaintiffs contend the case was
dismissed the following day. As such, Plaintiffs have brought this Motion to
Enforce Settlement. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this
Motion to Enforce Settlement. On November 30, 2023, Defendant filed an
opposition. On December 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
It is the strong public policy of California
to encourage the voluntary settlement of litigation.  (Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 1355, 1359.) To that end, the law provides for an expedited
procedure for enforcing a settlement once it has been agreed upon.  Under Code of Civil
Procedure, section 664.6: 
 
(a)¿If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside¿of¿the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in
full of the terms of the settlement. 
 
(b) For purposes of this section, a writing is signed by a
party if it is signed by any of the following: 
 
(1) The party. 
(2) An attorney who represents the party. 
(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized
in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.” 
 
“Section
664.6 was enacted to provide a summary procedure for specifically enforcing a
settlement contract without the need for a new lawsuit.” (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 809.)  This settlement-enforcement statute recognizes
that a settlement may be summarily enforced either where the settlement was
made orally before the trial court or where it was made in writing outside the
presence of the court. “Nothing in the statutory language suggests that, in a
multiparty action, all parties must agree to the settlement in the
same manner. And as long as the parties agree to the same material terms,
be it orally or in writing, the purpose of section 664.6 is satisfied.”  (Elyaoudayan v. Hoffman (2003) 104
Cal.App.4th 1421, 1428)(emphasis in original). 
In Elyaoudayan, multiple parties agreed to the settlement orally
before the trial court, and all but one of those parties signed the written
agreement. Although the written agreement—a seven-page document—included terms
that were not part of the oral agreement, the two agreements shared the same
material terms. The Second District enforced that settlement even though most
parties manifested their consent in writing and one party who refused to sign
the 7-page longer form settlement agreement did not sign the written
agreement.  “The oral agreement's statement
that the parties would later sign a written agreement did not affect the
enforceability of the oral settlement under section 664.6.”  (Id at pp.  1429–1430.) 
But in that case, the oral agreement was “before the court” rather than
at a mediation, and the parties who did not reach the oral agreement (because
they were absent from the settlement conference) later read and signed the
long-form agreement.  
Where an oral
agreement “shows it was not intended to be binding until a formal written
contract is executed, there is no contract.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &
Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) “California law is clear that
there is no contract until there has been a meeting of the minds on all material
points.” (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 348, 357-358.)
“Often, in
cases where an oral settlement is placed on the record in the trial court, a
written agreement will follow. If difficulties or unresolvable conflicts arise
in drafting the written agreement, the oral settlement remains binding and
enforceable under section 664.6. Having orally agreed to settlement terms
before the court, parties may not escape their obligations by refusing to sign
a written agreement that conforms to the oral terms. (Elyaoudayan, supra, 104
Cal.App.4th at p. 1431.)  Here, the claimed
oral settlement was agreed upon before a mediator, not before the Court.  While the Court can enforce a signed narrower
settlement agreement, it cannot enforce a broader oral agreement that was not
made before the court. “Although a judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may
receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment [citations omitted], nothing in section 664.6
authorizes a judge to create the material terms of a settlement, as
opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously
agreed upon.”  (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810.)  Here, the Court lacks admissible evidence
bearing on exactly what it was that the parties orally agreed upon that is not
memorialized in the writing signed by the parties.  
B.   
Discussion
 
            Plaintiffs
contend that all issues were resolved under the settlement agreement, that the
agreement is legally valid and binding, was properly executed by the parties,
and there is no bar to entry of judgment and enforcement of the agreement. The
Plaintiffs also request the Court set an Order to Show Cause re Contempt and
payment of daily liquidated damages of $1,000. Lastly, Plaintiffs request
Korzennik reimburse the Nakamuras the $4,000 incurred in litigating this issue
pursuant to the attorney’s fee provision of the settlement. 
 
            In
opposition, Korzennik requests an extension to perform. Korzennik asserts that
the agreement contemplates she would be renting at least, if not selling, the
property before she moves out, but neither she nor her son understood that term
of the settlement agreement required her to move out without having rented or
sold the property, carrying all of those expenses in addition to the expenses
associated with a new house or rental. The Court does not find this alleged
misunderstanding to be a reasonable one. The previous settlement stemmed out of
Plaintiffs’ alleged harassment from Korzennik, and ultimately required her to
be off the premises completely either through sale or through renting to a
non-family member. The first paragraph of the settlement clearly indicates: “Move-Out:
Dr. Nourit Korzennik (“Dr. Korzennik”) will vacate 26 Cinchring Rd, Rolling
Hills, CA 90274 (“26 Cinchring”) by no later than August 26, 2023…To the extent
Dr. Korzennik or the related persons shall seek to rent out 26 Cinchring to a
tenant, such tenant shall not be in any way known to, related to, or affiliated
with Dr. Korzennik or the related persons.” (Declaration of Jeffrey Lewis
(“Lewis Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exhibit 1, para. 1(a).) 
The word “vacate” is unambiguous and has no condition precedent or contingency
attached to it.  
 
            Defendant
Korzennik also argues that the Plaintiffs do not reside at the neighboring
property, 24 Cinchring, and have not rebuilt the property. It is Defendant’s
position that the property will not be ready until at least mid-summer 2024,
and that the Nakamuras have not lived at 24 Cinchring since before 2009. Thus,
Korzennik argues Plaintiffs will not be prejudiced by an extension of the
deadline for performance by her to move out of her home. However, Korzennik
contends that performance has been impractical and near impossible for many
factors and reasons, all set forth in the declarations of her, Jaron Brunner,
and Sara Willitt – noting the state of the housing market, and Korzennik’s
diagnosis with agoraphobia
 
            First, the
Court notes that the fact that Plaintiffs are not residing on the 24 Cinchring
property is unavailing. By Korzennik’s own argument that they have not lived on
the property since 2009, but that the actions complained of and eventually
settled took place after 2009, actually work against Korzennik. These
settlements and requirements specified in the settlement agreement were all to
protect Plaintiffs despite them not living on the property. 
 
            Next,
Korzennik contends that she has been unable to perform due to impracticability
and near impossibility. Some of the reasons described in the included
declarations attached to the opposition are as follows: (1) Korzennik is being
treated for agoraphobia (feeling fearful and anxious about leaving her familiar
home environment); (2) there is a monetary necessity and the considerable
logistical hurdles in selling as well as moving and storage fees; (3) Korzennik
is looking for a 3 bedroom 3 bathroom home in South Redondo Beach near her son
and grandchildren, but that there is currently nowhere to go short of the expense
of a hotel and the expense of moving twice and long-term storage; (4) Korzennik
asserts that the market is limited at this time, has been since November 2022,
and that she has toured possible new residences from June 2022 to November 2022
and none matched her needs or tastes; (5) each declaration “hopes” better
conditions will become available by Summer 2024. 
 
            Defendant
Korzennik relies on numerous cases to define impossibility and impracticability
– none of which involve a settlement, or being found in contempt of a court
order. Instead, the cases involve contracts, calculations of damages, etc..
None of the cases relied upon by Korzennik discuss the extension of time to
allow for an individual to comply with an agreed upon settlement. 
 
            However,
in their reply brief, Plaintiffs city to Kashmiri v. Regents of
University of California (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 809, to argue that
Korzennik’s costs of moving out does not excuse performance, noting the Court
in Kashmiri, held “[f]acts which may make performance more difficult or
costly than contemplated when the agreement was executed do not constitute
impossibility.” (Kashmiri, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at 839.) In Kashmiri,
the first district affirmed summary judgment in favor of students
challenging the University’s fee increases in 2003. The Court held that
implied-in-fact contracts were created by students and the university when
students accepted the university’s offer of admission, and that contract law
applied to students’ claims against the increase in various student fees. (Id.
at 831.) The Court also recognized that the university’s policy may have been
incorporated as a term of the contract. (Id. at 830.) The university
attempted to argue that the increase was for the purpose of dealing with the
state’s fiscal problems. However, the Court held the fiscal problems
experienced by the university did not excuse its performance. (Id. at
839.)
 
            Plaintiffs also cite to Kennedy
v. Reece (1964) 225 Cal.App.2d 717, where the Fifth District Court of
Appeal held that although performance may be so difficult and expensive that it
is described as ‘impracticable,’ and enforcement may be denied on the ground of
impossibility, “does not mean that any facts, which make performance more
difficult or expensive than the parties anticipated, discharge a duty that has
been created by the contract.” (Kennedy, supra, 225 Cal.App.2d at 724.)
The Court continued that “[f]acts which make performance harder or more costly
than the parties contemplated when the agreement was made do not constitute a
ground for the successful interposition of the defense of “impracticability”
unless such facts are of the gravest importance. If it be noted that this is
merely a difference of degree rather than a difference in kind, such notion is
accurate.” (Ibid.) The Court further discussed that “[i]f what is agreed
to be done is possible and lawful, it must be done. Difficulty of accomplishing
the undertaking will not avail the party who commits a breach of the contract.
If a party expressly undertakes to do a thing lawful in itself, and not
necessarily impossible under all the circumstances, and does not do it, he must
make compensation in damages, though the performance was rendered
impracticable, or even impossible, by some unforeseen cause for which no
provision is made and over which he had no control, but against which he might
have provided in his contract. The rule has its foundation in common sense and
honesty, and compels parties to abide by their contracts. Any other rule would
leave all contracts in a sea of uncertainty without rudder or compass.” (Id.
at 725.) 
 
            Here, the Court notes that Korzennik
entered into this settlement agreement on October 11, 2022. Korzennik also
indicates that less than a month later, the real estate market has presented
adverse conditions. However, none of the many declarations submitted on behalf
of Korzennik illustrate the difference in the market from when Korzennik
entered into her agreement from when this adverse market initially started. The
Court notes that trends in the real estate market, like tuition costs at a
school are likely to increase throughout the years, however, none of these
declarations indicate that the market is so adverse as to make it impractical
and impossible for Korzennik to move. Further, even if this Court were to agree
to extend the period of performance to sometime in Summer 2024, there is
nothing in the opposition papers to indicate that the market still may not be
adverse, or that Korzennik will find a home in which she finds to be ideal and
up to her usual living standards. Moreover, the Court understands that
Korzennik is suffering from agoraphobia, however, if the Court were to rely on
Korzennik’s fear of leaving her home to grant an extension, there is no telling
that Korzennik would ever get over this fear, and thus no telling how long an
extension would end up lasting. 
 
 
            Taking all
matters into account, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel enforcement but
will stay the enforcement of the liquidated damages provision through January
1, 2024.  Whether Defendant does or does
not find a suitable permanent home by year end, she must vacate and move out of
the Cinchring property, even if into a temporary lodging circumstance, because that
is what she promised to do in a binding and enforceable settlement agreement.  For violating the settlement agreement,
Korzennik will be required to pay $1,000 per violation to Plaintiffs commencing
January 2, 2023, as well as pay for their reasonable attorneys’ fees, as
discussed in greater detail below.  
 
Attorneys’
Fees
 
            Per the settlement agreement,
Korzennik agreed to pay reasonable attorneys if she failed to abide by the
settlement agreement terms and required Plaintiffs to defend themselves, and
enforce each individual breach of the agreement. As far as the Court is concerned,
there is only one breach of the settlement agreement – failure to vacate. Plaintiffs
have requested attorney’s fees in the amount of $4,000, which is explained in
Lewis’s Declaration. Lewis contends that his hourly rate is $800, that he spent
one hour drafting the moving papers, anticipated another hour reviewing an
opposition and preparing a reply, and an anticipated three hours to prepare for
and attend the hearing. The Court finds that the hours spent and anticipated on
the motions to be reasonable, but the estimate time preparing for and appearing
at the hearing to be excessive. Additionally, Lewis’s claimed hourly rate is excessive.
As such, the Court GRANTS attorneys’ fees in the lowered amount of $2,500
against Korzennik to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel Mr. Lewis by January 16,
2024. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice. 
 