 Case Number:  23TRCV00732    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 13, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV00732
¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Andrea Popa;
Robert Popa v. Ian Anthony White, et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Ian Anthony White  
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Andreea Popa and Robert Popa
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not Set 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED, and to require
a narrowed amended SDT in its stead. 
Issues to be argued are discussed below. 
Monetary sanctions are denied
 
  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On May 13, 2023, Plaintiffs, Andreea Popa
and Robert Popa (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Ian Anthony White, and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges
causes of action for personal injuries, property damage, and punitive damages.  
 
The lawsuit arises out of a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on March 1, 2022 at the intersection of Sepulveda
Boulevard and Manhattan Beach Boulevard in Manhattan Beach, California.
Plaintiff contends that Defendant was found to have been under the influence of
alcohol or an unknown substance at the time of the accident and was
subsequently arrested and charged with felony violations of California Vehicle
Code §§ 23153(a) and (b). Plaintiff also notes that the case was prosecuted by
the Los Angeles District Attorney, which resulted in Defendant pleading nolo
contendere to a misdemeanor violation of California Vehicle Code Section
23152(b), i.e., driving under the influence with a blood alcohol level of 0.08
or more.
 
Plaintiff notes that on June 23, 2023,
counsel for Defendant sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer letter as to
their stated intention to file a motion to strike portions of the complaint,
specifically, the cause of action for punitive damages. After some discussion,
Plaintiffs note that counsel for Defendant prepared a stipulation to strike
punitive damages , and in conferring to the stipulation, Plaintiffs’ counsel
insisted on the inclusion of “without prejudice” being included as to the
stipulation, in the even that future discovery revealed facts that would justify
a punitive damages claim.  Plaintiffs
note that Defendant’s counsel included the request “without prejudice” language
in the stipulation and order signed by the Court. 
 
            Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant’s level of intoxication and whether he actively attempted
to evade police is extremely relevant to the question of punitive damages in
this case. On September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs served a Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records on Manhattan Beach Police Department for records
pertaining to Defendant and seeking the following: “Any and all records,
reports, photographs, videos and statements, including but not limited to:
initial reports, supplemental reports, and witness statements. Including,
arrest report, blood alcohol test results.” On October 6, 2023, Defendant
served an objection citing the following grounds: (1) The subpoena is overly
broad as to time and scope; (2) the subpoena is an invasion of Ian Anthony
White’s right to privacy under the Constitution of the United States and the
State of California; and (3) The subpoena seeks information that is irrelevant
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of relevant admissible
evidence.
 
            In further
meet and confer attempts, Defendant suggests his counsel explained: (1) the
ambiguity in the scope language of Attachment 3 that may lead to the production
of documents beyond those pertaining to the subject accident; (2) the arguments
and authorities supporting Defendant’s privacy objection; and (3) the relevance
objection. However, Defendant contended that Plaintiffs’ counsel disagreed and
his refusal to withdraw the subpoena and refusal to meaningfully meet and
confer regarding Defendant’s merited objections, Defendant now brings this
motion before the Court to protect his privacy rights and preclude the
production of the records sought in the Deposition Subpoena. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On October 25, 2023, Defendant filed
this Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records. On
November 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On December 8, 2023,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s
Evidence: 
Sustain: 5.
 
Overrule: 1-4.
 
 
III. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1 states, “When a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of [documents], the court, upon motion reasonably
made by the party, the witness or any consumer described in Section 1985.3…may
make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” “The court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the parties, the witness, or the consumer from
unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable violations of a
witness’s or consumer’s right of privacy.” (Ibid.)  
 
Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract
cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”
“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) The “act
of operating a vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’
under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) Two cases, Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890 and Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82,
illustrate the specificity and gravity required to support a claim of punitive
damages against an allegedly intoxicated driver.
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Defendant seeks
to quash the subpoena because: (1) he argues it is not relevant to the subject
matter of this litigation; (2) the subpoena seeks private information in
violation of the patent-physician privilege; (3) the defendant has a
constitutional right of privacy in his medical records; and (4) Plaintiffs’
subpoena is overbroad and fails to identify the requested documents with
particularity. 
 
First, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s subpoena seeking Defendant’s medical records regarding
his blood alcohol test results and arrest records are neither relevant to the
subject accident nor are they reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Defendant suggests that the subpoena requests records, not
only for the day of the accident, but for an indefinite period. Defendant
argues that even if his blood was tested following the subject accident, such
records would have no tendency in reason to prove any disputed fact, arguing
there is no explanation as to how Defendant’s level of intoxication would
support the merits of a punitive damages claim. Instead, Defendant argues that
he has already pled no contest to a misdemeanor of driving under the influence
of any alcoholic beverage, and that the records sought by Plaintiffs’ subpoena
would provide no additional relevant information. 
 
            This Court notes that two
cases, Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 and Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, illustrate the specificity and
gravity required to support a claim of punitive damages against an allegedly
intoxicated driver. While ordinary intoxicated driving may create a risk of
injury to others that is foreseeable, that risk is not necessarily probable. (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89.) In Dawes, the Court
found that the defendant’s decision to “zig-zag in and out of traffic at 65
miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a
Sunday in June” was sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Id.)
In Taylor, the allegations that a defendant was an alcoholic who was
well-aware of the nature of his alcoholism, had a history of and tendency to
drive a motor vehicle while intoxicated, had previously caused an accident
while driving while intoxicated, had been arrested and convicted on various
other occasions for driving while intoxicated, had recently completed a period
of probation for a drunk driving conviction, had his probation conditioned on
refraining from driving for at least 6 hours after drinking, and had additional
pending criminal charges for driving under the influence were sufficient to
support a claim of punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court, supra,
24 Cal.3d at p. 893.)
 
“One
who willfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication,
knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining
sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great
force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the
safety of others. The effect may be lethal whether or not the driver had a
prior history of drunk driving incidents.” (Taylor v. Superior Court, supra,
24 Cal.3d at p. 897.) The Taylor Court did not require that the
plaintiff plead the speed of travel, zig-zagging driving patterns, a history of
DUI convictions, or that defendant was an alcoholic, even though these or other
factors might heighten the probability and foreseeability of an accident. The
Supreme Court determined that such “aggravating factors [are not] essential
prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving cases.” (Id.
at p. 897.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff cites to
numerous cases including Taylor and Dawes where courts have found
that driving while under the influence may amount to a conscious disregard of
the safety of others. However, Plaintiffs also contend that without the police
report, Plaintiff Andreea Popa is unable to assess the nature and extent of Defendant’s
actions. Plaintiffs maintain that if he was actively engaged in being chased by
the police, such actions would clearly warrant the position of punitive damages
under Taylor and its progeny. The Court is confused how Plaintiff’s
subpoena seeks to achieve this.  Does
plaintiff need the police report to identify the female police officer who
allegedly told her there was a chase?  Would
the police report provide the substance of witness statements to refresh
witness’ recollections?  If the police
report indicated the results of the blood alcohol content at the time of
arrest, how would that demonstrate conscious disregard?  The Court will entertain oral argument on
these points.
 
Further, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs’ subpoena is overbroad as it is not limited to time.
If the Court were to allow a limited scope SDT to the police department, the
scope of the subpoena would need to be narrowed.  It is unclear whether Plaintiffs are seeking
evidence that Defendant had prior incidents similar to the one allegedly leading
to this case. The Court notes that the cases Plaintiffs have relied upon are
criminal ones. Second, this Court finds that although even in cases like Taylor
and Dawes, the level of BAC was not instructive in the Court making
their decision. Defendant has already plead no contest, and has plead to
driving under the influence pursuant to Vehicle Code § 23153(b) which states:
“it is unlawful for a person, while having 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of
alcohol in his or her blood to drive a vehicle and concurrently do any act
forbidden by law, or neglect any duty imposed by law in driving the vehicle…” Has
defendant responded to an RFA that seeks an admission that he was driving while
intoxicated, regardless of the exact BAC level? 
Does Defendant deny he was intoxicated at the time of the incident?  While the toxicology results will reveal an
exact BAC level, how would that level affect the decision as to whether to amend
the Complaint to seek punitive damages?  Next,
this Court notes that Plaintiffs’ subpoena may violate Defendant’s right to
privacy as it generally seeks “Blood Alcohol Test Results” rather than the BAC
level at the time of the subject arrest. 
 
 
Lastly, the
Court will seek oral argument as to the allegation that Defendant was involved
in a police chase. Plaintiff Andreea Popa has allegedly stated in a deposition
that she had no recollection of being advised of any purported chase or
attempts by Defendant to flee the police. Again, per Taylor, this fact
may be instructive as to punitive damages, but is certainly not relevant for
Plaintiffs to plead in order to maintain a prayer of relief for punitive
damages. 
 
As such, the
Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion to quash to narrow its scope,
and to require a narrowed amended SDT in its stead.
 