 Case Number:  23TRCV01898    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 13, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01898
 
CASE NAME:                        Cynthia
Moultrie v. Savvy Beauty Academy LLC, et al. 

¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
Savvy Beauty Academy, LLC and Terry Yee
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Cynthia Moultrie
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Arbitration  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)
ARGUE.  The
Court will entertain oral argument as to the divergence of the instructor
agreement from the operating agreement, as bearing on the causes of action
alleged in this action and whether the employment relationship causes of action
were intended by the parties to be arbitrated or not.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On June 13, 2023, Plaintiff, Cynthia
Moultrie (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Savvy Beauty
Academy LLC, Terry Yee, DOES 1 through 10, and DOES 21 through 30. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Disability Based Discrimination in
Violation of Government Code § 12940 (a); (2) Failure to Provide A Reasonable
Accommodation in Violation of Government Code § 12940 (m); (3) Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5(b); (4) Retaliation in Violation of Government
Code § 12940 (m)(2); (5) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
Against Discrimination and Retaliation; (6) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 204,1194 and Wage Order 2; (7) Failure to Pay
Minimum Wages in Violation of Labor Code §§ 1194, 1197, and 1197.1; (8) Failure
to Reimburse Required Business Expenses in Violation of Labor Code § 2802; (9)
Failure to Pay Wages Promptly Upon Termination; (10) Failure to Provide
Accurate and Itemized Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226; and (11)
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Bus. & Prof Code §§ 17200, Et
Seq.
 
            Defendants Savvy Beauty Academy LLC
and Terry Yee now file a Motion to Compel Arbitration based on an agreement the
parties made after discussion of becoming partners. Defendants contend that
Plaintiff, a seasoned hairstylist, made the decision to go into business for
herself. Defendants claim that Plaintiff came across Yee’s building and
inquired about renting the space in order to build a beauty school. Defendants
note that Plaintiff and Yee decided to become partners and open Savvy Beauty
School Academy LLC. As part of their agreement, Defendants note that Yee
offered to waive Plaintiff’s rent for the building until the school was opened
and the business had cash flow. Defendants assert that once the school
officially opened, the parties agreed that Plaintiff would pay $7,500 rent per
month.
 
            Defendants contend that the parties
worked together to draft the final Operating Agreement, which had multiple
iterations. Defendants note that after negotiating the various terms of the
contract, the parties signed the Operating Agreement on or about September 27,
2019. Plaintiff’s Complaint also concedes she signed the operating agreement in
September 2019. The terms of the operating agreement are as follows: (1) Yee
would have 60% interest in the business, Plaintiff would have 25% interest in
the business, and Helen Ausubel (Plaintiff’s Mother) would have 15% interest in
the business. Defendants note that an arbitration agreement exists in the
operating agreement and that the scope of the agreement to arbitrate covers the
causes of action in this case. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
September 19, 2023, Defendants filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On October
23, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Plaintiff filed another opposition on October
26, 2023. On December 6, 2023, Defendants filed a reply brief.
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders arbitration,
then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is completed.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Defendants note that the Operating Agreement, signed by plaintiff
includes a mutual arbitration provision which states in part: 
 
Upon the occurrence of any dispute or
disagreement between the parties hereto arising out of or in connection
with any term or provision of this Agreement, the subject matter
hereof, or the interpretation or enforcement hereof (in each case, a
‘Dispute’), the parties shall submit the Dispute to final and binding
arbitration in Los Angeles County, California, administrated by JAMS, or its
successor, in accordance with the rules and procedures of JAMS then in effect.
The parties agree that any and all Disputes that are submitted to arbitration
in accordance with this Agreement shall be decided by one (1) neutral
arbitrator who is a retired judge or attorney who is experienced in complex
commercial transactions. If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator,
JAMS shall designate the arbitrator. The parties will cooperate with JAMS and
with one another in selecting the arbitrator and in scheduling the arbitration
proceedings in accordance with applicable JAMS procedures. The Arbitration
shall be conducted in accordance with the JAMS Comprehensive Rules. Any party
may commence the arbitration process called for in this Agreement by filing a
written demand for arbitration with JAMS, with a copy to the other party. Any
award issued as a result of such arbitration shall be final and binding between
the parties therefore and shall be enforceable by any court having jurisdiction
over the party against whom enforcement is sought. The parties expressly
acknowledge and understand that by entering into this Agreement, they each are
waiving their respective rights to have any Dispute between the parties hereto
adjudicated by a court or by a jury.
 
(Declaration of
Terry Yee (“Yee Decl.”), ¶ 7, Exhibit 1.)
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s Complaint concedes that she signed
the Operating Agreement in September 2019 (Complaint, ¶ 4.) Defendants also
assert that it was not presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, that both
parties had the opportunity to seek independent legal counsel, and that both
parties worked side-by-side to carefully craft and artfully formulate the
detail nuances of the Operating Agreement. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s does not dispute that she signed the document.
However, Plaintiff instead argues that the Arbitration Agreement found in the
Operating Agreement, does not apply to her employment causes of action, as the
employment claims do not arise from the arbitration provision, nor do her
claims touch matters governed by the Operating Agreement. The Court notes that
the allegations in which Plaintiff basis her employment discrimination causes
of action on include the following: (1) From November 2018 to January 2022, Ms.
Moultrie worked roughly 10 hours a day, 7 days per week, in order to get Savvy
started. Throughout the process of setting up the school, Ms. Moultrie spent a
substantial amount of her own money to get the business started, which included,
but was not limited to, over $15,000 needed to obtain the business’s secondary
education licenses, about $7,000 to have the school and curriculum approved by
the Star Board of Cosmetology, and various other business-related expenses,
including interior design, website, bills, and required licensing that Mr. Yee
refused to pay for: (Complaint, ¶ 16.) She also alleges she invested a
substantial amount of time drafting and creating curriculum and policies for
the school between November 2019 and around March 2020, noting Defendant
subsequently used her curriculum for their day, evening, and online classes
once the school opened. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) 
 
The Court notes that of each of these allegations arise out of
Plaintiff’s role as the Operations Manager. Article IV: Management of the
Operating Agreement identifies Plaintiff as the “Operations Manager” noting
that the operations manager shall run the day-to-day business and affairs of
the Company, provided, that except as otherwise specifically set forth in this
Agreement or required under the Act.” The list of Operations Manager duties
included, amongst others, supervise and direct salon staff. 
 
The Court also notes that the allegations stated in Plaintiff’s
Complaint also indicate that, even if Defendant made her feel, or allegedly
stated that she was more of an employee than a co-owner, she is suing as the
Operations Manager and Co-Owner of the company. For example, Plaintiff alleges
that Yee refused to reimburse her for the costs of getting the business started
despite promising her the same. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Article IV, ¶ 4.10 of the
Operating Agreement indicates that: “The Managers shall be reimbursed for their
expenses incurred on behalf of the Company, provided , however, that the
Operations Manager shall only be reimbursed if she acted within the scope of
her authority…” Next, Plaintiff alleges after she complained to Yee about
various safety issues, she was retaliated against by Yee demanding she
surrender an additional 5% of the business to him, further diluting her
interest in the business. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.) The percentage indicates
Plaintiff’s ownership in the business, as outlined in the Operating Agreement. Finally,
Plaintiff contends that when she contracted COVID, she was terminated – noting
that when she contracted COVID-19, she was forced to take a two-week medical
leave, Yee accused her of lying, and subsequently emailed her a letter
indicating she was to be removed from “daily operations” in the business. A
designation that was placed upon her by the Operating Agreement in her
description as Operations Manager. 
 
Despite Plaintiff’s allegations that she signed a separate instructor
agreement documenting her employment relationship with Savvy that did not
contain an arbitration agreement, this Court finds that several of the causes
of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint concern a number of the very “dispute[s]”
and/or “disagreements between the parties hereto arising out of or in
connection with any term or provision of the Agreement,” and are thus, subject
to the Arbitration Clause found in the Operating Agreement.   On the other hand, the scope of the arbitration
agreement contains none of the usual language of employment arbitration
provisions, i.e., as including claims arising from the employment relationship
or claimed employment relationship between the parties.  The Court will entertain oral argument as to
the divergence of the instructor agreement from the operating agreement, as
bearing on the causes of action alleged in this action and whether the
employment relationship causes of action were intended by the parties to be
arbitrated or not.
 
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff next argues that the Operating
Agreement is unenforceable because it is procedurally ad substantively
unconscionable. “The procedural element
of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court,
supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) Procedural unconscionability focuses
on whether there is “oppression” arising from an inequality of bargaining power
or “surprise” arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114; (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, 174 (Mercuro))
The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided
terms. (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 [130
Cal.Rptr.2d 892, 63 P.3d 979]; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
p. 114.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the procedural
and substantive elements are satisfied. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.)
However, Armendariz held, “[T]he more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz,
at p. 114; see also Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999),
70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.).” McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that the Operating Agreement is unenforceable because it is an adhesion
contract and procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiff notes that she entered into
an original Operating Agreement, as found in Exhibit A of her declaration, but
that Yee presented the Amended Operating Agreement to her on a
“Take-it-or-leave-it” Basis and Oppressed her in an attempt to get the amended
operation agreement signed. The Court notes that a contract of adhesion typically denotes a
standardized contract imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength which relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
113.)¿ The adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that the courts may
consider in determining the degree of procedural unconscionability.¿ (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 fn.4.)¿¿ Further, procedural unconscionability “focuses on two factors:
‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of
meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”¿ (Zullo v. Superior
Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)
 
            Plaintiff
contends that Yee’s attorneys drafted the Agreement, without input from
Plaintiff, and presented it to her on a “take-it-or-leave-it” basis. (Moultrie
Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff also contends that when she suggested changes to the
Agreement, Yee refused to incorporate them into the Agreement, stating that he
would consider her changes only after she signed the Agreement (Moultrie Decl.,
¶ 7.) Plaintiff also indicates she felt enormous financial pressure to sign the
Agreement. Plaintiff notes she was unsophisticated in business matters, unlike
Yee who is an experienced businessperson with an advisory attorney. Defendant
also notes in his reply brief that Plaintiff’s allegation that she felt
pressure to sign the contract is mitigated by the fact that there was no time
limit imposed on her signing the agreement, and that Yee texted her nearly five
months after presenting her with the Amended Operating Agreement and requested
her participation in finalizing the document. 
 
Plaintiff
also contends that she was misled about Snell & Wilmer, LLP’s role in the
drafting agreement. Plaintiff contends that she believed the Defendant’s
attorneys were acting in her best interest in preparing the agreement. The
Court is confused by Plaintiff’s final argument – did Snell & Wilmer LLP
indicate they were attorneys for the jointly owned business? Defendant’s reply
brief indicates, as does the Amended Operating Agreement, that: “This Agreement
was prepared by Snell & Wilmer LP as Legal counsel to Terry Yee. Snell
& Wilmer LLP has not acted as legal counsel to any other individual member,
unit holder, manager, or any other party in connection with the preparation of
this agreement. (Yee Decl., ¶ 7, Exhibit 1.) 

 
Next,
Plaintiff suggests that she was surprised with the Arbitration Provision
because it is buried in the dense 30-page agreement, and no one ever called her
attention to the arbitration agreement. However, the Court finds that the arbitration
agreement contains clear and conspicuous language, and is found in the same
font size as the rest of the agreement. Finally, the Court notes that
contracting parties who include an arbitration provision are not required to
attach the rules of the third-party arbitration company, however, this is
usually when the arbitration provision attaches a link to the rules. Here, the
Arbitration Agreement does not attach the rules nor does it provide a link. 
 
The
Court finds that there is a small amount of procedural unconscionability here
as Yee is the more sophisticated party, and the JAMS rules were not provided
nor linked to the arbitration provision. However, this is not enough to find
the arbitration agreement as a whole unconscionable. 
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration
Provision was substantively unconscionable because she argues that there are
unconscionable discovery limitations, and unconscionably attorney fee shifting
clauses.  An arbitration agreement is generally
enforceable, if it (1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more
than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of
the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does
not require the parties to pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition of
access to an arbitration forum. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the JAMS comprehensive rules severely limit Plaintiff’s ability to
conduct sufficient discovery in this matter. However, as noted by Defendant
Yee, Rule 17 of JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration Rules provides for comprehensive
discovery, including informal exchange, ESI, deposition, additional
depositions, and expert testimony. An agreement is
substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,”
“unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”¿ (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC¿(2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 910-911¿(Sanchez).)¿ “All of¿these formulations point to
the central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are
‘unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”¿ (Id.
at p. 911.)¿ “These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining
process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms
(usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an
impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law,
fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations
of the¿nondrafting¿party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh terms having
to do with price or other central aspects of the transaction.’ ”¿ (Id.
at p. 911.) What Plaintiff fails to acknowledge is that these discovery
limitations apply equally to both sides. Yee also will be deprived of discovery
in the same way she will be, but it will be required to exchange specific
documents and, on application to the arbitrator, both sides may be required to
exchange other information such as exchanging expert reports. 
 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that there is an unconscionably attorney fee shifting clause.
The arbitration provision states: “The prevailing party in any legal
proceeding will be entitled to recover as an element of such party’s cost of
arbitration, suit or proceeding, and not as damages, reasonable attorneys’ fees
to be fixed by the arbitrator or by the court.” However, under Armendariz, the standard only requires that
Plaintiffs are not required to pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition
of access to an arbitration forum. Here, attorneys’ fees are not an
unreasonable cost that is unique to arbitration. So long as the costs are not
unique to arbitration, California Courts have not found these to be
unconscionable. 