 Case Number:  22STCV18952    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Petitions to
Approve Compromises for Elonna Bryan (Age 12), Elijah Bryan (Age 14), Elizabeth
Cordero-Tayton (Age 17), and Jesse Louis Contreras (Age 33).
 
Tentative
 
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the
guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call.  
 
There are four petitions before the Court.
 
The petitions for the three minor
children (Elonna Bryan, Elijah Bryan, and Elizaeth Cordoro-Tayton) are GRANTED.
 
All substantive and procedural
requirements are satisfied.  The
settlements are fair and reasonable.
 
The Court sets an OSC for proof of
deposit of funds in blocked accounts for ______________, 2024.
 
As to the petition for Jesse Louis
Contreras, the hearing is CONTINUED, as set forth below.
 
Special Needs Trust Petition
for Claimant Jessee Louis Contreras 
 
On January
18, 2024, the Second Amended petition was filed.  Petitioner states at the start of the
petition that counsel specializing in special needs trusts was retained to
provide a new proposed trust instrument and address bond.  The claimant is Jesse Louis Contreras, age
33, a disabled adult.  The Petitioner is
the guardian ad litem.  (See Court Order
filed 11/16/22).
 
The gross
amount of the settlement is $500,000. 
The net amount that is proposed to be deposited into a Special Needs
Trust (SNT) is $229,051.37.  (Petition,
p. 6, sections 15 and 16f.)  
 
The
overall terms of the settlement, and the request for attorney’s fees, are fair
and reasonable.  
 
The use of
an SNT requires a more extended analysis.
 
An SNT is
used to receive the settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does
not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or
SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any
additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits
eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and
there is no longer a means test for Medi-Cal. 
The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change and
therefore there might remain a reason for creation and funding of a SNT to
maintain other benefits.  
 
PROPOSED
TRUST INSTRUMENT:
 
Petitioner
provides the proposed trust instrument at Attachment 18b(4) (court’s pdf at p.
50).  The main requirements for court
created or funded trusts are set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule
7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b).  
 
The Court
has carefully reviewed the revised proposed trust instrument and finds that it meets
all applicable requirements and is ready for creation and/or funding.
 
FINDINGS
WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
The Court
makes the following findings, based on the evidence in the record, as required
by Probate Code section 3604, subdivision(b):
 
•     The SNT beneficiary has a disability which
substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or
custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;
 
•     The SNT beneficiary is likely to have
special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
 
•     The money to be paid to the trust does not
exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT
beneficiary’s special needs.
 
TRUSTE AND
BOND:
 
The
proposed initial trustee is Michelle Ruiz. 
The court has no information regarding Ms. Ruiz and has not received a
written consent or other evidence that Mr. Ruiz is ready, willing, and able to
serve as the trustee of the SNT.
 
Normally,
bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate
fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court,
Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.). The proposed trustee does not
appear to meet the definition of a corporate fiduciary.  Based upon the assets to be funded into the
trust, plus anticipated annual income from investments and any annuity, plus an
additional amount required for the costs of any recovery on the bond, the Court
concludes that a proper calculation of the bond amount is $266,000.  
 
The Court
will require a $266,000 bond to be submitted to this Department by the trustee (and
the bond will later be resubmitted to the Probate court in any trust
supervision action).  
 
ORDERS/PROPOSED
ORDER:
 
The
proposed order received on January 18, 2024 does not meet the applicable
requirements.
 
The proposed
order does not include, as required: 
 
·      
The terms of the trust.  (Prob. Code, § 3604, subd. (a).)
·      
Approval of the trust instrument.
·      
Required findings.  (Prob. Code, § 3604, subd. (b).)
·      
Appointment of the trustee.
·      
Provision for court jurisdiction over trust.
·      
Provision for first trust accounting in one year,
with 14-month calendar due date
·      
Provision for filing of a notice of commencement
of proceedings for a court. supervised trust (LASC Form PRO 044) within 60 days.
·      
OSC in this Department in approximately 60 days
for proof of funding of settlement, submission of bond, and proof of filing of
LASC Form PRO 044
 
The
hearing is CONTINUED so that Petitioner may submit a new proposed order.
 
Conclusion
 
As to the compromises
for the three minors, the petitions are GRANTED.
 
The Court sets an OSC for proof of
deposit of funds in blocked accounts for ______________, 2024.
 
As to the
compromise for Jesse Louis Contreras, the hearing on the petition is continued
so that Petitioner may submit a new proposed order and a written consent (or
similar document) from Ms. Ruiz regarding serving as trustee.
 
Moving
party to give notice.