  Case Number:  21STCV28220    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Dismissal filed by Plaintiff James
Matters.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August 2, 2021, Plaintiff James Matters (“Plaintiff”)
filed his complaint against Bertha Villalobos, Steven Villalobos Cabral, and
Does 1 through 50 for the cause of action of Motor Vehicle Negligence.
On January 30, 2023, the case was dismissed
when no one appeared on the day of trial. On April 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this motion to set aside the dismissal.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
counsel contends dismissal occurred because of counsel’s “bad health condition”
he was unable to “tend to this matter and timely make the necessary filings and
appearances.” (Bowman Decl., ¶ 10.) Counsel states that his health as in
decline due to complications from heart surgery and catching Covid-19. (Id.,
¶ 5, 6.) Due to his poor health, counsel was unable to appear for the hearings
which resulted in the case being dismissed. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect due to his poor health at the time of the
dismissal.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is GRANTED.
 
The Court sets an OSC re dismissal for failure to file
proof of service of summons, or, in the alternative, a Trial Setting Conference,
in approximately 60 days. 
                                                                                                                                                            
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.  