  Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  C Saadia Square v.
All-Ways Pacific, et al.
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00133
HEARING:   10/25/23 @ 10:30 AM
 
#4
 
     
I.         
The Court finds that the January 22, 2020 and January 27, 2020 emails
from Jack Saadia to Hanna Madbak are PRIVILEGED.  SM Defendants are ordered to return all
copies of the emails to Plaintiff within two business days.  
   
II.         
SM’s Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony is GRANTED in part
and DENIED in part as above. SM’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
  III.         
Saadia’s Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony and Responses to
Requests for Production at Deposition is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as
above. Saadia’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
SM Defendants to give NOTICE.
 
Background
Saadia
filed a complaint against numerous Square Mile (SM) and All-Ways (collectively
Defendants) for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; (3) Intentional Interference; (4) Specific Performance and
Injunctive Relief; and (5) Declaratory Relief. Saadia alleges that Defendants
interfered with its Right of First Offer (ROFO) for a property located in
Rialto, California when the Square Mile Defendants sold the property to
All-Ways. All-Ways filed a FAXC against Saadia for interference with
prospective economic and contractual relations. All-Ways alleges that Saadia,
in an email to SM on January 12, 2021, used its undisclosed ROFO to interfere
with its purchase of the property. 
Motion
For Determination of Privilege
Saadia’s
untimely opposition will be considered.
SM
Defendants seek a determination by the court whether two emails sent by Saadia
to Attorney Hanna Madbak are protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege.  The emails were discussed
during SM Defendants’ deposition of Saadia on February 7, 2023.  Upon learning that Mr. Madbak was an
attorney, Saadia’s counsel contended that they had been previously unaware of
that fact and had inadvertently produced the emails in discovery.  Saadia’s counsel demanded that “all copies of
the two documents identified as privileged be returned and no questions be
asked.” This motion followed.  
Legal
Standard
“After
being notified of a claim of privilege or of protection under subdivision (a),
a party that received the information shall immediately sequester the information
and either return the specified information and any copies that may exist or
present the information to the court conditionally under seal for a
determination of the claim.” (CCP § 2031.285(b).)
Discussion
In
support of his assertion of the attorney-client privilege, Saadia declares that
he “retained Hanna Madbak for obtaining legal services and advice to assist me
in my capacity as an officer in various entities, including Saadia Square,
LLC.” (Saadia Decl., ¶ 5.)  “The two emails
were sent for the primary and predominant purpose of obtaining legal advice.”
(Saadia Decl., ¶ 6.)  SM Defendants argue
that Saadia’s assertion of privilege is belied by Saadia’s earlier testimony
that he has never had general counsel and he didn’t seek advice from anyone
prior to execution of the Lease and Option. 
In this court’s view, Saadia’s earlier testimony calls into question the
genuineness of Saadia’s asserted privilege, but it is not enough to overcome the
privilege.  SM Defendants characterize
the emails as an attempt by Saadia to obtain only business advice, not legal
advice.  The court is unable to come to
the same conclusion, particularly where Saadia would later initiate this
lawsuit over the very same issue he discussed with Mr. Madbak.    
Accordingly,
the
Court finds that the January 22, 2020 and January 27, 2020 emails from Jack
Saadia to Hanna Madbak are PRIVILEGED. 
SM Defendants are ordered to return all copies of the emails to
Plaintiff within two business days.  
Motion
To Compel Further Deposition Testimony of Jack Saadia
Legal
Standard
“If
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action, without having
served a valid objection, fails to appear for examination, or proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, the party giving notice may move for
an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document.” (CCP §2025.450(a).)
Discussion
SM
seeks to compel further deposition testimony as to Question 1-33. 
Further
deposition testimony is ordered as to Questions 1-20 regarding Jack Saadia’s
criminal history because they are relevant to his credibility. Additionally,
the convictions are matters of public record. (Skulason v. California Bureau
of Real Estate (2017) 14 Cal.App.4th 562, 570.) Thus, Jack Saadia cannot
have a reasonable expectation of privacy as to the convictions.
Questions
21-23 relate to the proposal on behalf of Chic Homes and Saadia’s ROFO.  No further deposition testimony is ordered as
to Questions 21-23 because Jack Saadia responded to the questions. Thus, SM’s
requests to compel further deposition testimony as to the questions are denied
because the questions were answered.
Further
deposition testimony is ordered as to Question 24 and 25 regarding whether he
informed SM about his understanding of the ROFO because Jack Saadia did not
respond.
Further
deposition testimony is ordered as to Question 26 regarding Saadia’s intent to
exercise the ROFO upon SM entering into a lease with All-Ways because Saadia’s
intent is directly relevant to the All-Ways’ Cross-Complaint.
Further
deposition testimony is ordered as to Questions 27 through 31 regarding whether
Saadia consulted a lawyer regarding the impact of All-Ways’ lease on its ROFO
because underlying facts regarding attorney-client communications are not
protected by the attorney-client privilege. (Delaware Rules of Evidence Rule
502(b).)
Further
deposition testimony is ordered as to Questions 32 and 33 regarding the New
Jersey property because they are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. Further, there is no authority which precludes
testimony regarding the subject of a separate action.
Sanctions
If
a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
Here,
Saadia acted with substantial justification because there were important
privacy and privilege interests asserted within the opposition. 
Accordingly, SM’s Motion to Compel Further
Deposition Testimony is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as above. Saadia is
to produce Jack Saadia within sixty days of this order. SM’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.
Motion
To Compel Further Deposition Testimony of Paul Reisz
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Saadia Square (Saadia) moves to compel further testimony of Rialto Merrill
Holdings, LLC and All-Ways entities’ (All-Ways) person most knowledge, Paul
Reisz, and related Requests for Production.
Legal
Standard
“If
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action, without having
served a valid objection, fails to appear for examination, or proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, the party giving notice may move for
an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document.” (CCP §2025.450(a).)
Discussion

Saadia moves to compel further deposition
testimony as to Questions 1-8 and for further responses to Requests for
Production Nos. 24-26. Saadia agrees its requests to compel further testimony
as to Questions 1-6 are currently moot based on the granting of All-Ways’
Motion for Summary Judgment. Thus, those requests are denied as moot at this
hearing, however, should the Motion for Summary Judgment be reversed, Saadia
may renew its Motion as to Questions 1-6. The remaining issues are Questions 7
and 8, Requests for Production Nos. 24-26, sanctions, and the costs of
re-convening Mr. Reisz’s deposition.
Further deposition testimony is ordered as to
Question 7 regarding whether All-Ways has attempted to refinance the property
since acquisition because the information may reasonably lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence regarding the damages All-Ways seeks in its
Cross-Complaint. 
No further deposition testimony is ordered as
to Question 8 regarding the number of text messages between Mr. Reisz and Jack
Saadia because Mr. Reisz responded to the question. Mr. Reisz stated that he
believes there were more than five messages but was unable to testify as to how
many more than five. Thus, Saadia’s request to compel further deposition
testimony as to this question is denied because the question was answered.
As to Request for Production Nos. 24-26,
All-Ways is ordered to produce the text messages and other communications between
Mr. Reisz and Jack Saadia and text messages related to the property because
they are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Sanctions
If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
All-Ways acted with substantial justification
because the Court finds that continued meet and confer efforts have resolved
the majority of this Motion. Thus, Saadia’s request for sanctions including
requiring All-Ways to pay for the second deposition of Mr. Weisz is denied.
Accordingly, Saadia’s
Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony and Responses to Requests for
Production at Deposition are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as above.
All-Ways is to produce Mr. Reisz within sixty days of this order. Saadia’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 