 Case Number:  23NWCV01005    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  C Rangel, et al. v. quintanilla, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01005
HEARING:   10/25/23 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Sylvia Quintanilla, Adriana
Quintanilla, and Isaac Quintanilla demur to the entire Complaint and to
Plaintiff Cynthia Rangel as an improper Plaintiff.
Background
On
March 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Cynthia Rangel and Jose Rangel (collectively
Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Sylvia Quintanilla, Ulysses
Quintanilla, Adriana Quintanilla, and Isaac Quintanilla (collectively
Quintanilla Defendants) for Implied Easement and Prescriptive Easement. The
lawsuit involves a residential boundary dispute over a strip of land upon which
Plaintiffs built a block wall.  
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is DENIED because Defendants have not authenticated
the document through a sworn affidavit. 
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion

Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ causes of
action for Implied and Prescriptive Easements on the grounds that they fail to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
Plaintiffs claim that they are entitled to an
implied or prescriptive easement over the land upon which they built a block
wall (Disputed Area). Plaintiffs allege that they built a block wall on their
property commonly known as 9222 Almo Street, Pico Rivera 90660 (Plaintiffs’
Property). (Compl. ¶ 9.) Further, Plaintiffs contend that there are survey
monuments which memorialize the surveyed boundaries of the properties. (Compl.
¶ 14.) 
The demurrer must be sustained because
Plaintiffs cannot be granted an easement over property which they allege to be
their own.  “[N]o person may have an
easement in land which he himself owns.” (Wilson v. Pacific Elec. Ry. Co.
(1917) 176 Cal. 248, 254.) Plaintiffs’ claim for a prescriptive easement fails
for the same reason. (Compl. ¶¶ 9 and 21.) Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’
entire Complaint is sustained because Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
Additionally, Defendants demur to the Complaint
on the ground that Plaintiff Cynthia Rangel has no interest in Plaintiffs’
Property. Defendants filed an amendment to their Demurrer pursuant to CCP §
473. (Baxter v. Boston-Pac. Oil Co. (1927) 81 C.A. 187, 189.) Defendants
are granted leave to amend their Demurrer to add the additional ground that
Plaintiff Cynthia Rangel is not a proper plaintiff.  Defendants contend the most recent vesting
deed on record for the Plaintiffs' property indicates that the fee simple
owners are Jose J. Rangel and Irma Y. Rangel, Husband and Wife, as Joint
Tenants.  The purported Grant Deed is
attached as Exhibit 1 to the Amendment to the Demurrer.  However, because the court declines to take
judicial notice of the Grant Deed, the demurrer as to Plaintiff Cynthia Rangel
is not sustained on this basis.  
Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend as they
have not amended their Complaint.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
 