 Case Number:  22NWCV00320    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  C Pacific Southwest District v. jensen, et al. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00320
HEARING:   10/25/23 @ 10:30 AM
#5
 
Pacific
Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod’s Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part as
to PLC’s Second through Tenth Causes of Action and Carvel’s First through
Fourth Causes of Action and DENIED in part as to PLC’s First Cause of Action.
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran
Church-Missouri Synod (PSD) makes a special motion to strike Cross-Complainant
Peace Lutheran Church (PLC) and Chastity Carvel (Carvel)’s Cross-Complaints.
Background
This
is a quiet title action filed by PSD seeking to determine the ownership of the
church where PLC’s congregation gathers. PSD contends that it now owns the
property pursuant to PLC’s constitution because PLC’s congregation no longer
exists. PLC and Carvel filed Cross-Complaints alleging that PLC’s lawsuit is
improper.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 425.16 permits the court to strike causes of action arising from an act in
furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the
plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim.
The
defendant bears the initial burden of showing that the plaintiff's claim is
based on an act of defendant in furtherance of his right to free speech and,
thus, falls within the class of suits subject to a motion to strike under CCP
section 425.16.¿(Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89
Cal,App.4th 294, 304.) Under CCP section 425.16(b)(2), the Court may consider
the pleadings and supporting affidavits in making its determination. ¿
If
the defendant meets this initial burden, the plaintiff then has the burden of
demonstrating a probability of prevailing on the claim. ¿(Jarrow Formulas,
Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 741.) ¿A plaintiff satisfies their
burden by demonstrating that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited. ¿(Id.)
¿Under CCP section 425.16(b)(2), a plaintiff may use affidavits to meet the
plaintiff’s burden. 
PLC’s
Cross-Complaint

PLC’s Cross Complaint alleges that it remains
an active and viable organization. (XC, ¶ 68.) 
PSD has failed and breached their fiduciary duties to provide
leadership, support, and services to PLC in accordance with the LCMS
Constitution and bylaws, and in accordance with the PLC Constitution. (XC, ¶
69.)  PLC may voluntarily terminate its
relationship with the District at any given time. (XC, ¶ 70.) PLC remains
active in the LCMS/Pacific District and the District continues to have a
fiduciary duty to help PLC. (XC, ¶ 71.) By filing a quiet title action, PSD
fails to aid the Peace Lutheran Church and its congregant members to grow,
thrive or survive, as required both by the LCMS mission statement and purpose,
the PSD mission statement, and the LCMS constitution and bylaws. (XC, ¶ 72.)
There have been no prior disciplinary actions or attempts to fulfill the
binding arbitration requirements in accord with the LCMS Constitution prior to
PSD’s lawsuit, and PSD did not provide PLS with an opportunity to respond in
accordance with the LCMS Constitution and bylaws. (XC, ¶ 73.)  PLS, not PSD, determines when the
congregation has ceased to exist. (XC, ¶ 74.) PLC has never filed for legal
dissolution in the State of California. (XC, ¶ 75.) PLC remains a viable,
continuous, and unceasing congregation, with sole ownership and possession of
its real property interest, toward fulfilling its PLC constitutional mission
statement and corporate purpose. (XC, ¶ 76.)
Based thereon, PLC’s Cross-Complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief; (2) Unfair
Business Practices; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Unjust Enrichment; (5)
Constructive Trust; (6) Fraud; (7) Fraud in the Inducement; (9) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; and (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED).
Carvel’s Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Abuse of Process;
(2) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED); and (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
Chastity Carvel’s Cross-Complaint
Chastity Carvel’s Cross-Complaint alleges that
she is a congregant and member of PLC and presently serves in a non-paid
capacity as the President of PLC. (XC, 4:2-7.) The Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod (LCMS) is a congregational, non-hierarchical union of local congregations
which have voluntarily organized to create the Synod.  The Synod divides itself into districts.  PSD is one of those districts. PLC is an
affiliate member in voluntary association with the PSD.  PLC is a member Church of the LCMS denomination.  This voluntary association with PSD commenced
on January 10, 1994. (XC, 4:8-16.)  LCMS
provides a constitution and bylaws which govern its members. (XC, 4:8-17.)  The LCMS Constitution and bylaws require that
party members seek conflict resolution when disagreements occur between its
members.  Prior to filing this lawsuit,
PSD failed to seek any form of conflict resolution or binding arbitration.  (XC, 4:8-23-26.)  The PLC real property is solely owned by PLC.
(XC, 5:16-17.)  PSD
has used this litigation process, in order to harass, intimidate, and attack
me; a congregant member of PLC; for no other purpose than to force PLC to sign
over a quit claim deed of the property to PSD. (XC, 5:22-25.)

Based thereon, Chastity Carvel’s
Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) Abuse of Process, (2)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, and (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
Discussion
PSD bears the initial
burden of showing that the cross-complaints are based on an act of PSD in
furtherance of PSD’s right to free speech or petition, so as to fall within the
class of suits subject to a motion to strike under CCP section 425.16.  An “act in furtherance” includes “any written
or oral statement or writing made before … a judicial proceeding …” CCP §
425.16(c).  The focus of PLC and Carvel’s
cross-complaints is the filing of this lawsuit by PSD. (Opposition, p. 2 (“The suit filed by the
Pacific District is disguised as a “quiet title” action whereby Pacific
District seeks to abscond with the Peace Lutheran Church property”); PCL XC, ¶
72 (“By filing a quiet title action the PSWD fails to aid the Peace Lutheran
Church and its congregant members to grow, thrive or survive”); Carvel XC,
5:22-25 (“the Plaintiff has used this litigation process, in order to harass,
intimidate, and attack me.”) At the core of the right to petition is the
ability of any member of the public to file a lawsuit and seek redress before
the courts.  As such, the filing of this
lawsuit by PSD is protected activity within the meaning of CCP § 425.16(c).  PSD
has therefore satisfied its burden of showing that PLC and Carvel’s claims are
based on an act in furtherance of PSD’s right to petition.  
Thus, the burden shifts
to PLC and Carvel to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on their claims.  
PLC’s Probability of
Success
PLC argues that it has demonstrated a
probability of prevailing on the merits as to the First Cause of Action for
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief because PSD does not have a right to sue PLC
and PSD does not have a right to the property. “Any person … who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties … in respect to, in, over or upon
property, … may … bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior
court ….” (CCP § 1060.)  PLC argues that
it is the sole owner and remains in sole possession of the PLC real property.
(Carvel Decl., ¶ 5.)  PSD’s claim to the
property is based upon PLC’s January 23, 1994 Constitution which provides that PLC’s
property and funds shall pass to PSD if the congregation ceases to exist.
(Niederbrach Decl., ¶ 6.)  PSD argues
that PLC has, in fact, ceased to exist, and PSD provides the court with various
reasons why it should make such a finding. (Motion, pp. 2-3.).  PLC counters that it still has at least
thirteen active members (Carvel Decl., ¶¶ 11-12), that PLC is not required to
have a minimum number of members to remain in existence (Carvel Decl., ¶ 10), and
Carvel is a member and officer of PLC (Carvel Decl., ¶ 1-3 and 6).
The court finds that PLC has met its burden at
the second anti-SLAPP step. (Monster Energy Co. v. Schechter (2019) 7
Cal.5th 781, 793 (“It bears emphasis that a plaintiff’s burden at
the second anti-SLAPP step is a low one, requiring only a showing that a cause
of action has at least ‘minimal merit’ within the meaning of the anti-SLAPP
statute.”)) Thus, PSD’s Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike is DENIED as to PLC’s First
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief. 
PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment and the Fifth
Cause of Action for Constructive Trust because they are not causes of action.
(See Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 173 (Bank of New York
Mellon v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 935, 955 (“ ‘Unjust
enrichment is not a cause of action   
….’ ”); Embarcadero Municipal Improvement Dist. v. County of Santa
Barbara (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 781, 793 (A constructive trust is not a cause
of action but only a remedy.) Thus, PSD’s Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike PLC’s
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action is granted.
PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing as to its Second, Third, and Sixth through Tenth Causes of Action because
it failed to make a prima facie showing of facts. 
As to the Second Cause of Action, an unfair
business practice claim requires a business practice that is unfair, unlawful,
or fraudulent. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) PLC produced Carvel’s
Declaration in support of its opposition, however, there is no mention of a
business practice. Thus, PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing as to its Second Cause of Action because it provides no evidentiary
support for its claim.
As to the Third Cause of Action, a breach of
contract claim requires the existence of a valid contract. The existence of
contract “requires an agreement between two or more." (Lowe v. Ozmun
(1906) 3 Cal.App. 387, 394.) PLC appears to be relying on PSD’s constitution
and bylaws which is attached to Carvel’s Declaration. PLC argues that PSD
induced PLC into association with PSD upon the “reasonable belief of the PLC
that, reconciliatory efforts would be made if there were an issue.” (Carvel
Decl., ¶ 33.) PLC has failed to establish that PSD’s constitution and bylaws
are a contract between PLC and PSD.  Thus,
PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as to its Third Cause
of Action for because it provides no evidentiary support for its claim.
As to the Sixth through Eighth Causes of
Action, fraud requires “(1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another's reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Charnay
v. Cobert  (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th
170, 184.) Carvel’s Declaration in support of PLC’s opposition fails to provide
sufficient evidentiary support for the claim. The Declaration states that PSD
helped PLC draft its constitution in 1994 and induced PLC to insert a clause
that allows the property to pass to PSD if the congregation ceased to exist.  However, the Declaration fails to provide the
names of the persons involved or the facts surrounding the inducement and
promise. Thus, PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as to
its Sixth through Eighth Causes of Action because it provides no evidentiary
support for its claim.
As to the Ninth Cause of Action, the statute of
limitations on a breach of fiduciary cause of action is four years. (CCP §
343.) Thus, the claims that PSD breached its fiduciary duty in 1994 and 2017
are beyond the statute. Additionally, PLC claims that PSD breached its
fiduciary duty by filing the lawsuit. However, 1.10.3 of PSD’s constitution and
bylaws provides an exception for disputes related to property rights. Thus, PLC
has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as to its Ninth Cause of
Action because the evidentiary support offered does not support its claim.
As to the Tenth Cause of Action, emotional
distress caused by litigation is not compensable. (Ortega v. Pajaro Valley
Unified Sch. Dist. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1060-1061.) Thus, PLC has
failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as to its Tenth Cause of
Action because the cause of action is barred by law.
Carvel’s Probability of Success
Carvel has failed to demonstrate a probability
of prevailing as to her First through Fourth Causes of Action. 
As to the First Cause of Action, abuse of
process requires more than “[s]imply filing or maintaining a lawsuit for an
improper purpose ….” (S.A. v. Maiden (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 41.)
Carvel has failed to provide support for her claim beyond simply filing or
maintaining the underlying lawsuit for an improper purpose. Thus, Carvel has
failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as to her First Cause of
Action because she provides no evidentiary support for its claim.
As to the Second and Third Causes of Action,
emotional distress caused by litigation is not compensable. (Ortega, supra,
64 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1060-1061.) Thus, Carvel has failed to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing as to her Second and Third Causes of Action because
the causes of action are barred by law.
As to the Fourth Cause of Action, Carvel claims
that PSD breached its fiduciary duty by filing the lawsuit. However, 1.10.3 of
PSD’s constitution and bylaws provides an exception for disputes related to
property rights. PLC has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing as
to her Fourth Cause of Action because the evidentiary support offered does not
support her claim.
 
Accordingly,
PSD’s Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part as to PLC’s Second through
Tenth Causes of Action and Carvel’s First through Fourth Causes of Action and
DENIED in part as to PLC’s First Cause of Action.   