 Case Number:  22AHCV00085    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JAIME ROBISON,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00085
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION FILED BY CITY OF PASADENA,
  PASADENA POLICE DEPARTMENT, STEVEN MERMELL, AND MICHELE PERERA
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   1, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
Plaintiff
Jaime Robison filed this action on February 17, 2022. The operative First
Amended Complaint, filed on February 21, 2023, asserts three causes of action
for: (1) relief for violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5, (2)
petition for writ of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5, and (3) violation of due process. The named defendants include the City
of Pasadena, the Pasadena Police Department (which is not a separate entity but
a department within the City), Steven Mermell, in his official capacity as City
Manager (“Mermell”), and Michelle Perera, in her official capacity as Director
of Library and Information Services (“Perera”).
On August 15,
2024, City, Police Department, Mermell, and Perera (collectively, “City”) filed
this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
of each cause of action. 
Plaintiff
filed her opposition papers on October 18, 2024.
City filed its
reply papers on October 25, 2024. 
Plaintiff
then filed an objection to City’s reply papers on October 28, 2024. 
II.         
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A
moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause
of action, but it is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence. (Id. at p. 854; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).)  
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Plaintiff asserts
58 pages of boilerplate objections by objecting to each exhibit in City’s
compendium of evidence, which consists largely of documents from the underlying
administrative record. The Court notes that Plaintiff submits many of the same
exhibits in support of her opposition and also relies on her counsel to
authenticate them as being produced in discovery or as “part of the
Administrative Record.” (Plaintiff’s Appendix, Glave Decl., ¶ 15) Accordingly,
any objections on the grounds that City’s exhibits are insufficiently
authenticated by defense counsel are OVERRULED. (Serri v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 856 [no merit to authentication,
foundation, hearsay, or relevance grounds where opposing party relied on the
identical evidence].) These evidentiary objections based on authentication are
also not well-taken considering that Plaintiff does not actually dispute most
of City’s proffered material facts which rely on the purportedly objectionable
evidence. 
Second, Plaintiff
offers no explanation (either within her objections or in her opposition brief)
as to how Penal Code section 832.5 through 832.8 and Evidence Code section 1043
and 1045 affect admissibility as opposed to “discovery and disclosure.”
Therefore, all objections based on these statutes are overruled. 
Third, the
Court reminds Plaintiff that CRC 3.1354 requires written objections to “[s]tate
the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected to” and “[q]uote
or set forth the objectionable statement or material.” Rule 3.1354 also
requires objecting parties to adhere to one of two mandatory formats. Only 4
out of Plaintiff’s 64 objections comply with Rule 3.1354 and “set forth” the
evidence that is objected to. This mean that in order to rule on 60 of Plaintiff’s
objections, the Court must sift through each exhibit and anticipate which
portions are actually at issue, which is especially arduous and time-consuming since
Plaintiff’s stated grounds for objection are utterly devoid of any analysis. The
Court declines to perform this analysis on Plaintiff’s behalf. Therefore,
Objections 5 through 64 are OVERRULED.
Since the
Court is only required to rule on objections to evidence deemed material to the
disposition of the motion, the Court rules on Plaintiff’s remaining objections
as follows: 
Objection No.
1: OVERRULED
IV.       
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s
First Cause of Action: POBRA Violations
The Public Safety Officers Procedural
Bill of Rights Act (“POBRA”), located at Government Code section 3300 et seq.
POBRA sets forth a list of basic rights and protections which must be afforded
to all peace officers by the agencies that employ them. (Bagett v. Gates
(1982)32 Cal.3d 128, 135.) Plaintiff alleges various violations of her rights
under POBRA, specifically section 3303, 3304, 3304.5, 3305, 3306, 3306.5, and
3309, as follows:
-         Government
Code section 3303(c), for allegedly failing to inform Plaintiff of the nature
of the investigation; 
-         Government
Code section 3303(h), for allegedly failing to inform Plaintiff of her
constitutional rights; 
-         Government
Code sections 3303(g), (l). for allegedly failing to inform Plaintiff of her
right to have a representative present or to record the interview; 
-         
Government Code section 3304/3304.5, for deficiencies in the notice of proposed
discipline and notice of discipline, failing to provide an administrative
appeal in a timely fashion or an unbiased impartial investigation, and
violating her due process rights by requiring her to pay half of the cost of
the arbitrator and transcripts;
-         Government
Code sections 3305-3306, for including a disciplinary reprimand in Plaintiff’s
personnel file without her knowledge or ability to review/respond to it;
-          Government
Code section 3306.5, for not allowing Plaintiff to review her personnel files,
including the original hard copies, because they were destroyed;
-         Government
Code section 3309, for searching Plaintiff’s e-mails outside of her presence
without: (1) obtaining a search warrant or court order, (2) obtaining her
consent, and (3) notifying her.
City argues that Plaintiff cannot
establish that any of these violations occurred. First, City argues that
Plaintiff cannot prove a violation of Government Code section 3303(a).
Plaintiff alleges that section 3303(a) was violated because the private
investigators (referred to as “the Horsemen”) attempted to interrogate her and
she was not compensated for her off-duty time. (See FAC, ¶¶ 160-161.) City
argues Plaintiff was actually never interrogated and submits excerpts from
hearing transcripts with testimony from the Chief of Police, Philip Sanchez
(“Chief Sanchez”), who stated that: (1) he was unaware of any secret interview
and (2) no interview of Plaintiff by the Horsemen took place. (City Exs. FF,
HH.) City also argues that Plaintiff was not entitled to off-duty pay because
she was placed on paid administrative leave and served with a leave order on
September 10, 2014. (UMF Nos. 21-22.) 
Therefore, City shows that Plaintiff
cannot establish a violation of section 3303(a). 
Second, Plaintiff alleges that City
violated her rights pursuant to section 3303(b) because she was not informed of
the identities of the officers in charge of the investigation or the
interrogating officers. City argues that Plaintiff cannot prove a violation of
section 3303(b) and cites to the transcript for an interview conducted on April
22, 2015, in which Lieutenant Kim Smith introduced herself as the officer who
would be conducting the interview and also introduced the other officer
present, Bill Grisafe. (UMF No. 33; Ex. W, p. AR2698.) This evidence is sufficient
for City to show that Plaintiff cannot establish a violation of section 3303(b).

Third, Plaintiff alleges City violated
section 3303(c), which provides: “The public safety officer under investigation
shall be informed of the nature of the investigation prior to any
interrogation.” City argues that Plaintiff was given adequate notice of the
nature of the investigation and cites to Ellins v. City of Sierra Madre (2016)
244 Cal.App.4th 445, 449 (“Ellins”). In Ellins, an officer was
given a notification which stated that “an administrative investigation is
currently being conducted regarding an alleged abuse of [his] peace officers
powers and duties.” (Ellins, 244 Cal.App.4th at p. 450.) The officer
retained an attorney and it was agreed that an interview would be conducted.
The officer was informed “[j]ust minutes before the interview was to begin”
that he was alleged to have inappropriately accessed a police database to
obtain information about a former girlfriend and her relatives. (Ibid.)
The officer and his counsel requested – and were given – an hour to discuss the
charges in private, but 25 minutes after conferring, the officer refused to
proceed with the interview. (Ibid.) After continuously refusing to be
interviewed, the officer was terminated. The Ellins court concluded that
POBRA required “reasonable advance notice” of an interrogation and that those
requirements were satisfied. First, the Ellis court found that there was
good cause to postpone disclosing the nature of the investigation to the
officer in order to avoid any possibility of retaliation against the
ex-girlfriend. Second, the Ellins court noted that the officer was given
the amount of time that he requested to consult with his representative but did
not use all of it. Third, the Ellins court stated that the officer faced
a “sole allegation” that was “straight-forward legally and factually” and found
that the time given to the officer was sufficient to allow for “meaningful
consultation as to that allegation.” 
City argues that here, Plaintiff alleges
she was notified of allegations pending against her on April 14, 2015, and the
first interview session occurred a week after, on April 22, 2015. (Motion, p.
19; FAC, ¶ 75.) City also cites to the transcript of the interview, in which Lt.
Smith stated:
This
has to do with the interaction between her [Plaintiff] and her physicians with
regard to a January 2012 incident where she fell down the stairs that resulted
in a surgery, and then there’s an incident, uh, that occurred in 2013, when she
was in an on duty car accident, and you wanna talk about that traffic accident
in relationship to events that occurred on July 15, 2014. 
 
(Ex. W, p. AR2699.) City also argues that Plaintiff had
sufficient notice because  Lt. Smith
testified later at an arbitration proceeding that “there was a discussion prior
to the interview about what the allegations [against Plaintiff] were.” (Ex.
VV.) Lt. Smith said, “Prior to the interview starting on the recording, Mr.
Shinee [Plaintiff’s counsel at the interview] had several questions for me. I
answered all of those questions. I remember our conversation. I don’t remember
what specific questions or any details about the conversation.” (Ex. WW.) 
The Court separately notes that City
cites to its Exhibit D, which is not the April 14, 2015 notice, but a different
Notice of Proposed Discipline dated September 22, 2015. Nevertheless, a
memorandum dated April 14, 2015, is attached to Exhibit L, p. AR1060, and it states:
This notice is to advise you that you are a subject of an
Internal Affairs Investigation. It is alleged that you misrepresented or gave
misleading statements pertaining to a worker’s compensation claim. 
 
It is further alleged that you participated in conduct which
any employee knows or reasonably should know is unbecoming a member of the
department or which is contrary to good order, efficiency or morale, or which
tends to reflect unfavorably upon the department or its members. 
 
Further, it is alleged that you initiated civil action for
recovery of damages or injuries incurred in the course and scope of employment
without first notifying the Chief of Police of such action.
 
Should these allegations be true, they would be a violation
of the Pasadena Police Department policies listed below and you may be subject
to discipline for your conduct. 
 
The memorandum goes on to identify Policy 340.3.2 (b),
340.3.5 (p) and 340.3.5.(aa). It also advises Plaintiff that she has the right
to have a representative of her choice present during the interview. The
interview was conducted a week later on April 22, 20215. 
As for the second interview, held on
July 1, 2015, Lt. Smith testified (and the interview transcript shows) that she
informed Plaintiff there would be “an additional charge, a violation of a
misdemeanor and/or felony statute.” (Exs. Y, FFF.) A memorandum dated May 20,
2015, noted this additional allegation and identified the corresponding policy as
Policy 340.3.5.(z). (Ex. BB.) 
In total, City produces sufficient
evidence to show that “reasonable advance notice” of the nature of the
investigation was provided to Plaintiff prior to the April 15, 2022, interview,
and that Plaintiff cannot establish a violation of section 3303(c).  
          Fourth, City persuasively
argues that Plaintiff cannot show a violation of 3303(g), (h), and (i). 
-     
Section
3303(g) allows the officer to have access to a tape recording of the
interrogation “if any further proceedings are contemplated or prior to any
further interrogation at a subsequent time.” The officer is also entitled to “a
transcribed copy of any notes made by a stenographer or to any reports or
complaints made by investigators or other persons, except those which are
deemed by the investigating agency to be confidential.”  The officer also has “the right to bring his
or her own recording device and record any and all aspects of the
interrogation.” Lt. Smith testified that she sent a copy of the audio recording
and transcript of the first interview session to Plaintiff before the start of
the second session. (Ex. DDD.) 
-     
Section
3303 (h) provides, “If prior to or during the interrogation of a public safety
officer it is deemed that he or she may be charged with a criminal offense, he
or she shall be immediately informed of his or her constitutional rights.”
Plaintiff’s counsel, Corey Grave, stated at a later hearing that there was no
dispute that after the recorders went on that Plaintiff was read her
Constitutional rights and Lybarger order. (EX. BBB). City also attaches a signed
admonition form dated April 22, 2015. (Ex. L, AR1061.) 
-     
Section
3303(i) states, “Upon the filing of a formal written statement of charges, or
whenever an interrogation focuses on matters that are likely to result in
punitive action against any public safety officer, that officer, at his or her
request, shall have the right to be represented by a representative of his or
her choice who may be present at all times during the interrogation.” Here, Lt.
Smith testified that Plaintiff was represented by Mr. Shinee during both
interviews held on April 22, 2015, and July 1, 2015. (Ex. TT.)  
Fifth, Plaintiff alleges that City violated section 3304 because it was required
to issue its Notice of Proposed Discipline no later than December 2014. (FAC, ¶
173.) 
Section
3304(d)(1) states, in relevant part: 
Except as provided in this
subdivision and subdivision (g), no punitive action, nor denial of promotion on
grounds other than merit, shall be undertaken for any act, omission, or other
allegation of misconduct if the investigation of the allegation is not
completed within one year of the public agency's discovery by a person
authorized to initiate an investigation of the allegation of an act, omission,
or other misconduct. . . . In the event that the public agency determines that
discipline may be taken, it shall complete its investigation and notify the
public safety officer of its proposed discipline by a Letter of Intent or
Notice of Adverse Action articulating the discipline that year, except as
provided in paragraph (2).
 
Subsection d(2), in turn, provides
for an exception to the one-year period for investigations involving
allegations of workers’ compensation fraud. (Gov. Code, § 3304, subd. (d)(2)(H).)
It also tolls the period while any allegation of misconduct is also the subject
of a criminal investigation or criminal prosecution. (Id., subd.
(d)(2)(A).) 
City argues
that the Notice of Proposed Discipline was timely issued on September 30, 2015,
because the one-year limitation was tolled while the criminal investigation of
Plaintiff was pending and the one-year period did not apply since Plaintiff was
being investigated for worker’s compensation fraud. (Motion, p. 21; Gov. Code,
§ 3304, subd. (d)(2)(A), (d)(2)(H).) However, the Notice of Proposed Discipline
also includes an allegation (specifically, Allegation #3) that Plaintiff
initiated a civil action for the recovery of damages or injuries incurred in
the course and scope of employment without first notifying the Chief of Police
of such action. (Ex. F, AR 0010.) Plaintiff alleges in her FAC that the Chief
of Police was aware of this lawsuit in November/December 2013 because City
filed an ex parte application to intervene in that suit. (FAC, ¶ 125.) City
does not address when it first discovered Plaintiff’s lawsuit or whether the
Notice of Proposed Discipline was timely with respect to that particular
allegation; therefore City fails to meet its burden to show that Plaintiff
cannot prove a violation of section 3304. 
The Court
also notes that Plaintiff alleged the Notice of Proposed Discipline violated section
3304.5 because it did not provide sufficient detail to identify dates, times, places,
and specific acts as required by the Police Department’s Manual of Personnel
Rules, Practices and Procedures (“Manual”). (FAC, ¶ 166.) City only argues that
Plaintiff “received all the information she needed and was entitled to on or
around September 30, 2015.” (Motion, pp. 20-21.) City emphasizes that the
Notice of Proposed Discipline was served on Plaintiff along with a 38-page long
cover letter (“Executive Summary”) from the IA investigation. (Id; see
Ex. M.) It is this Executive Summary that includes a “detailed chronology”
including the numerous dates, times, locations, and actions at issue. The
Notice of Proposed Discipline itself, attached as Ex. D, clearly does not
include any of this information. Accordingly, City has not shown that Plaintiff
cannot prove a violation of section 3304.5. 
Since City has not shown that Plaintiff’s
entire cause of action fails, the Court need not address the remaining alleged POBRA
violations because a motion for summary adjudication “shall be granted only if
it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) To
the extent that City wished for the Court to summarily adjudicate its
obligations under each section (or subsection) of POBRA as separate issues,
Defendant did not identify them in its notice of motion or separate statement. (See
Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855
[party may present motion for summary adjudication challenging separate and
distinct wrongful act as separate issues].) 
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is DENIED and the motion for summary
adjudication of Issue #1 is DENIED. 
B.   Petition for
Writ of Mandate and Due Process Violations
Plaintiff’s
second cause of action seeks a writ of mandate overturning the City’s
administrative decision, reinstating her employment, and enforcing the
arbitrator’s award which found various violations of POBRA. (FAC, ¶¶ 198-199.) Plaintiff’s
third cause of action is for due process violations. 
City moves
for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s second and third cause of action through
Issues #2 and #5, which argue that Plaintiff did not exhaust her administrative
remedies prior to filing suit. City cites to Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.6 which allows a court to conduct a writ review of any “final
administrative order or decision.” City argues that the City Manager’s
designee, Perera, did not issue a final order or decision because it “expressly
leaves the issue of her employment status for future consideration.” (Motion,
p. 24.) City emphasizes that the decision stated: “For the reasons set forth
below, . . . the matter shall be and hereby is remanded to the parties for a
determination of the merits of the allegations upon which Officer Robison was
terminated.” 
However, City
ignores the second page of Perera’s decision, which states: 
“Judicial review of this decision
may be obtained by way of a petition for writ of mandate pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5 and must be filed in Superior Court within 90
days pursuant to section 1094.6 of that Code.”
 
(Ex. Z, p. AR0689.) The Court
notes that the decision specifically required Plaintiff to file a petition for
writ of mandate within 90 days; therefore, the motion for summary adjudication
of Issue #2 pertaining to the exhaustion of administrative remedies is DENIED. Since
Plaintiff’s alleged failure to exhaust her administrative remedies also forms
the basis of City’s summary adjudication motion for Issue #5 (which addresses
the Third Cause of Action for due process violations), the motion for summary
adjudication of Issue #5 is also DENIED. 
          City’s
Issue #3 challenges Plaintiff’s petition for writ of mandate on the grounds
that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Government Tort Claims Act. The Court
declines the invitation to reconsider its thorough and detailed ruling issued
on April 24, 2023, which rejected the same argument made in City’s demurrer to
the FAC. The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to Issue #3. 
          This
leaves City’s Issue #4, which argues that Plaintiff’s petition for writ of
mandate is barred by the doctrine of unclean hands. (Motion, p. 13.) City
argues that Plaintiff’s worker’s compensation fraud bars her from recovering an
award of back pay, compensation, and benefits. This misconstrues the purpose of
the petition, which is to set aside Perera’s decision to reject the
arbitrator’s findings. As City concedes, there was no determination on the
merits of Plaintiff’s termination, and the arbitrator’s decision ruled only on
whether there were any POBRA violations. Therefore, whether Plaintiff engaged
in worker’s compensation fraud is not relevant to whether she has “unclean
hands” for purposes of setting aside Perera’s decision to reject the
arbitrator’s advisory opinion regarding POBRA violations. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication is DENIED
in its entirety.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 1st
day of November
2024 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 