 Case Number:  24NNCV03249    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DENNIS MARTINEZ SALAZAR, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUDHESHNA
   MIRYALA,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV03249
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   1, 2024




 


 


 



 
Mitchell
 P. Beck seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiffs
 Dennis Martinez Salazar and Maria Martinez Salazar (collectively,
 “Plaintiffs”) on grounds that the
 attorney-client relationship has deteriorated. Absent a showing of
resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
The Court notes that trial in this
matter is not yet set and no prejudice will result from granting these motions.
However, the proposed orders are deficient because they do not identify
Plaintiffs’ phone numbers in Item 6. Item 6 also reflects the provided address
as “last known” even though Plaintiffs’ counsel declared that he was able to
confirm them as current. Accordingly, the hearing is CONTINUED to November 13,
2024, at 8:30 a.m. so that counsel may submit revised proposed orders. The
revised papers must be filed no later than 5 court days before the hearing. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 1st
day of November 2024     
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 