

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 5, 2021,
Plaintiff Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC, as servicer for Daimler
Trust (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint against Defendant Jeffrey David Benton;
Pendulum Studios LA LLC; California Auto Crafters (“Defendants”); and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Common Count; (3) Claim
& Delivery; and (4) Conversion. 
 
On February 15, 2024, this Court entered judgment on the
Complaint after summary judgment granted in Plaintiff’s favor, in the amount of
$14,388.42 and declared Plaintiff is entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs against Defendant Pendulum Studios LA LLC (“Pendulum”). 
 
On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees. A timely opposition was due on May 10, 2024. As of May 21,
2024, no opposition has been filed. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
argues it is the prevailing party in this matter and entitled to recovery of
reasonable attorney’s fees against Defendant Pendulum. Plaintiff further argues
the attorneys’ fees incurred are reasonable provided the nature and extent of
legal services rendered. Similarly, Plaintiff contends the attorneys’ fees
incurred are reasonable because of the skill and experience of its counsel of
record. Last, Plaintiff asserts the Lease Agreement provides for reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1033.5,
subdivision (a)(10) and 1717, subdivision (a). 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
None filed as of
5/21/24.
 
REPLY
 
None filed as of
5/21/24.
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Motion for Attorney Fees 
A.   
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4), a prevailing party
“includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a
dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains
any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any
relief against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
Attorney’s
Fees are allowable costs under section 1032, “when authorized by any of the
following: (A) Contract…(B) Statute…[or] (C) Law.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
“In
any action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that
attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall
be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the
party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he
or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717,
subd. (a).)
B.  Discussion
Here, Plaintiff moves for
an order awarding it $47,119.00 in attorneys’ fees and $1,196.15 in costs
against Defendant Pendulum. On October 5, 2023, this Court granted its Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Defendant Pendulum in the amount of $14,388.42.
Judgment was entered against Defendant Pendulum in that amount on February 15,
2024. (Domin Decl., ¶¶21-25, Ex. 2.) Over a four year period, Plaintiff
incurred attorneys’ fees for the following: (1) drafting demand letters and
attempting communications with California Auto Crafters (“CAC”); (2) drafting
the complaint against Defendants; (3) communications following Defendant
Pendulum’s failure to file and serve a verified answer; (4) drafting a motion
to strike Defendant Pendulum’s unverified answer; (5) attending hearings on the
motion to strike, application for writ of possession, and motion for summary
judgment; (6) preparing instructions to and communications with Los Angeles
County’s Sheriff Department; (7) preparation of settlement agreements; (8) preparing
declaration regarding reclassification; (9) preparation of motion for summary
judgment; and (10) drafting the instant motion. (Mot. 8-10; Domin Decl., Ex.
5.) Furthermore, Plaintiff’s lead counsel, Rebecca A. Caley has over 35 years of
litigation experience and was assisted by her associate attorney, Christopher M.
Domin and paralegal, Kristina Kelley in this matter. (Domin Decl., ¶¶29-30.) Moreover,
their hourly rates are reasonable based on the comparable rates charged by
attorneys of like experience and skill in Los Angeles, Orange, and Riverside
counties. (Domin Decl., ¶¶27, 31-32, Ex. 4.) Additionally, the Lease Agreement
upon which Plaintiff’s claims were based, provides for attorneys’ fees and
courts costs to be paid to Plaintiff for taking action on Defendant’s default
under the contract. (Domin Decl., ¶8, Ex. 1.) Last, Plaintiff has filed a
Memorandum of Costs, seeking $1,196.15 for filing and motion fees; service of
process fees; and electronic filing fees, which are allowable costs under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivisions (a)(1), (a)(4), and (a)(14). 
Therefore, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that it is the prevailing party in this matter,
entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs, and the attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred over the past four years of litigating this case are reasonable. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Accordingly, Plaintiff Mercedes-Benz
Financial Services USA LLC’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees Against Defendant
Pendulum Studios LA, LLC is GRANTED in the amount of $48,315.15 including costs.

 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
 