 Case Number:  24VECV00600    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  W XAVIER PEREIRA
vs JENNIFER JEANN PARKER, et al.
 
defendant ean
holdings, llc and enterprise rent-a-car company of los angeles, llc’s demurrer
to plaintiff’s complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        August
15, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00600
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
EAN Holdings, LLC and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC 
Responding Party:     No
opposition  
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a motor vehicle
collision. Plaintiff Xavier Pereira alleges Defendants EAN Holdings, LLC and
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC (“Enterprise Entities”)
rented their vehicle to Defendant Jennifer Jeann Parker without insurance and
Ms. Parker did not have her own insurance coverage when Ms. Parker crashed into
Plaintiff’s vehicle while it was parked outside Plaintiff’s residence. On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Enterprise
and Parker for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. 
 
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s request
for entry of default against Defendant Jennifer Jeann Parker was entered. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Ean
Holdings, LLC and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendants EAN Holdings, LLC and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los
Angeles, LLC request this court take judicial notice of (1) the most recent
Statement of Information for EAN filed with the California Secretary of State
and that it states it is in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles
(Exh. B); and (2) the most recent Statement of Information for Enterprise filed
with the California Secretary of State and that it states it is in the business
of renting and/or leasing vehicles (Exh. C). Based on this request, Defendants
request this court take judicial notice of the fact that Enterprise and EAN are
in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles and of the fact that
Enterprise and EAN are affiliated with one another. 
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request
for judicial notice of Exhibits B and C. (Evid. Code §452(c).) However, the
court declines to take judicial notice of the fact that Enterprise Entities are
in the business of renting and/or leasing vehicles or the relationship between
EAN and Enterprise as it is not “such common knowledge” or “facts and
propositions” that it cannot or is not reasonably be the subject of dispute. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants EAN Holdings, LLC and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los
Angeles, LLC (“Enterprise Entities”) demur to the complaint on the grounds Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Enterprise
Entities and is uncertain. 
 
Failure to
State Facts Sufficient
 
Enterprise
Entities first demur to the complaint on the grounds Plaintiff's complaint does
not allege sufficient material facts to state a cause of action against the
Enterprise Entities. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that the Enterprise
Entities were employees and agents at the time of the Incident. However,
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to allege an employer. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to
provide any factual support for his claims, a common theme thus far in the
pleading. For there is no mention as to how the Enterprise Entities permitted
operation of the subject vehicle or how it had the requisite knowledge of
Parker's incompetence or unfitness to drive. Enterprise Entities also contend
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged permissive use. 
 
The court disagrees.
The court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the required elements of
negligence for the purposes of a demurrer. Plaintiff is not required to
identify and allege the exact nature of the wrongful act. (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see also ibid. [“Negligence may be
alleged in general terms; that is, it is sufficient to allege an act was
negligently done without stating the particular omission which rendered it
negligent.”].) As such, while bare, Plaintiff’s claim of negligent entrustment
and permissive use are sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Graves
Amendment
 
Enterprise
Entities next demur to the complaint on the grounds a rental car company and
its affiliates cannot be held vicariously liable for the acts/omissions of its
renters, and only faces potential liability for its own independent acts of
negligence or criminal conduct. 
 
The Graves
Amendment provides immunity from liability under state law to vehicle owners
who rent or lease their vehicle, unless there is negligence or criminal
wrongdoing on the part of the owner. (49 U.S.C. § 30106(a).) Because the court
has not taken judicial notice of those facts and the complaint fails to allege
Defendants are engaged in the business of renting or leasing motor vehicles,
the court therefore cannot determine that the Graves Amendment is applicable at
the pleading stage. This argument may be better suited for summary judgment or
the like. 
 
Uncertainty
 
Lastly,
Enterprise Entities argue the complaint is uncertain. For example, it is
uncertain whether Plaintiff is really pleading course and scope liability or
agency liability, as there is no allegation of a principal in the pleading. Additionally,
while the first cause of action for motor vehicle negligence solely names
Enterprise under the theory of negligent entrustment, the second cause of
action for general negligence appears to be alleging negligent entrustment
against both Enterprise Entities.
 
The court
overrules Enterprise Entities demurrer for uncertainty because the complaint is
not so uncertain that Defendant cannot reasonably respond thereto. Any
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (Khoury v.
Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
Accordingly,
Enterprise Entities’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. 