 Case Number:  22VECV02589    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  W FED REPORTER,
INC. v. LESTER SNYDER
 
PLAINTIFF FED
REPORTER, INC.’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER PURSUANT TO COURT’S MARCH 22, 2024
“PROTECTIVE ORDER-CONFIDENTIAL DESIGNATION ONLY” AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS OF
$3,200 AGAINST dEFENDANT LESTER SNDYER 
 
Date of Hearing:        August
15, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02589
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Fed Reporter, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lester Snyder  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff Fed
Reporter, Inc. filed a complaint against Lester Snyder for breach of contract,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and breach of
implied duty to perform with reasonable care. In October 2016, Fed Reporter
engaged Mr. Snyder as an independent contractor to serve as a consultant in
connection with Fed Reporter’s development and marketing of a software program.
Plaintiff alleges after lengthy prior negotiations, the parties memorialized
the terms of their agreement by executing a detailed written contract titled
“Consulting Service Agreement”; however, Defendant Snyder repeatedly failed to
perform his consulting services in a satisfactory manner and as contracted for
by Fed Reporter. Plaintiff further alleges thereafter Defendant Snyder
repudiated the express terms of the Consulting Agreement by falsely asserting:
that he was the owner of the Product’s intellectual property; that he had
licensed said Product to Fed Reporter; and that he was entitled to lifetime or
“evergreen” royalty payments for Fed Reporter’s licensing of the Product.
Following extensive settlement discussions, Defendant Snyder accepted a
settlement offer that was made by Fed Reporter. However, Defendant Snyder later
reneged on the settlement agreement, thereby forcing plaintiff to file suit.
 
On Marh 7, 2023, Snyder filed a
cross-complaint against Fed Reporter, Inc. for breach of contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of implied duty to
perform with reasonable care, unjust enrichment, and declaratory relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Fed
Reporter, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order Pursuant to Court’s March 22, 2024
“Protective Order-Confidential Designation Only” is GRANTED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Fed Reporter,
Inc. moves for the entry of a protective order in response to the “Notice of
Objection by Lester Snyder to the Confidential Designation of Documents
Produced by Fed Reporter” served by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lester Snyder
on May 14, 2024 and to uphold Fed Reporter’s “CONFIDENTIAL” designation as to
three documents that have been produced by Fed Reported and designated as
“CONFIDENTIAL” per for this court’s Protective Order – Confidential Designation
Only entered on March 22, 2024. Fed Reporter also requests sanctions in the
amount of $3,200.00 be imposed against Mr. Snyder, and payable to Fed Reporter.

 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.020 provides that “[t]he court shall limit the scope of discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.”  (CCP §
2017.020(a).)  “The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person.”  (Id.)  
 
A responding party may move for a
protective order with respect to interrogatories, requests for production of
documents, requests for admissions, and depositions and a court may make any
order that justice requires to protect a party from “unwanted annoyance,
embarrassment or oppression or undue burden and expense.”  (CCP §§ 2025.420, 2030.090, 2031.060,
2033.080.)  The burden of proof is on the
party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order he or she
seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Fed Reporter argues good cause exists
for the requested protective order because these three documents -- (1) SmartCECL
CR Accounting and Estimation Documentation 10-17-2021” (Bates-stamped FED
REPORTER 06474-6517); (2) SmartCECL CR Accounting and Estimation Documentation”
(Bates-stamped FED REPORTER 06518-6549); and (3) SmartCECL CR Accounting and
Estimation Documentation_02_01_22” (Bates-stamped FED REPORTER 06550-6579) -- contain
Fed Reporter’s proprietary and/or confidential information regarding its Smart
CECL product. Moreover, Mr. Snyder obtained the three documents at issue when
Fed Reporter produced them, subject to a “CONFIDENTIAL” designation pursuant to
the Court’s 3/22/24 Protective Order. Thus, Mr. Snyder acquired these documents
under circumstances where there was indeed a duty to maintain their secrecy and
limit their use/disclosure pursuant to said Protective Order. 
 
In opposition, Mr. Snyder argues the
parties entered into a Consulting Service Agreement whereby Fed Reporter was
granted conditional rights to use Snyder’s intellectual property for the
SmartCECL product and any replacement products, subject to royalty payments and
the agreement’s confidentiality obligations were explicitly set to expire one
year after the contract’s termination, which occurred on October 20, 2022. As
such, Fed Reporter now improperly seeks to maintain a “CONFIDENTIAL”
designation on certain documents produced during litigation, despite the
expiration of these obligations. Mr. Snyder also argues the protective order
explicitly states that it does not alter or extend the contractual
confidentiality obligations, which expired on October 20, 2023, and therefore,
the court should enforce the terms of the protective order as written. In
addition, he presents evidence that he had versions of these same three
disputed documents in his own possession prior to the commencement of
litigation – a point which defendant concedes in its reply brief.  
 
The court finds Fed Reporter has
demonstrated good cause for the “CONFIDENTIAL” designation of the three
documents. While it is true that Mr. Snyder is no longer contractually
obligated by the terms of the agreement, Mr. Snyder may still be ordered to
comply with the protective order to protect trade secrets. The party moving for
a protective order has the burden of proof to establish by preponderance of the
evidence the need for a protective order. (Stadish v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 71
Cal.4th 1130, 1145.) A party seeking to defend a trade secret must present an
affidavit listing the declarant’s qualifications to give an opinion,
identifying the trade secret, identifying the documents that may disclose it,
and presenting evidence that the trade secret is actually a trade secret. (Id.) Fed
Reporter has done so. (See Park Decl.) Moreover, Snyder has failed to show that
his “legal possession” of the documents prior to litigation would bar Fed
Reporter’s request for a “CONFIDENTIAL” designation of the three documents. Fed
Reporter has also submitted evidence of their participation in the creation of
the three documents. (See Park Decl. ¶¶6-7.) Mr. Snyder also fails to
demonstrate that marking these three documents as “CONFIDENTIAL” would unfairly
limit competition and innovation. 
 
Sanctions
 
Both parties request sanctions. Fed
Reporter seeks sanctions in the amount of $3,200.00 for 3 hours preparing the
motion, another three hours reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply, and
another 2 hours preparing for and attending court at counsel’s hourly rate of
$400.00. (Hollenkamp Decl. ¶9.)
 
Defendant Snyder requests sanctions for
opposing Fed Reporter’s motion in the amount of $3,035.00, including a $60
filing fee, $1,575 paid for research support, and $1,400 for attorney
consultation, totaling $3,035.00. (Snyder Decl. ¶9.) 
 
Because both parties’ positions were
substantially justified, the court declines to award sanctions to either party.
