  Case Number:  21STCV15600    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  W MICHAEL
COROMINAS, et al. v. WEST HILLS HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
motion FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Date of Hearing:        August
15, 2024                    Trial Date:       August 25, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        21STCV15600
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Jessica Thomas, M.D.
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Michael Corominas and Lisa
Corominas 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael
Corominas and Lisa Corominas filed a complaint against Defendants West Hills
Hospital and Medical Center, Martin M. Mortazavi, M.D., Jessica Thomas, M.D.,
Paul Diehl, M.D., Dean Wilson, Jr., P.A., Specialty Imagining Center, Tejpal
Singh, M.D., Providence Cedars-Sina Tarzana Medical Center, Chris Y. Wang,
M.D., Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Exer Urgent Care, Michael H. Lee, M.D., and
California Institute of Neuroscience for medical negligence and loss of
consortium. Plaintiffs allege that further testing and workup should have been
performed during the ER visit including testing
for signs and symptoms and were negligent in failing to do so.  
 
Exer Urgent Care moved for summary
judgment and judgment was entered in its favor on February 8, 2024. Dr. Lee
also moved for summary judgment and judgment was entered in his favor on March
22, 2024. Plaintiff dismissed Specialty Imaging Center on April 4, 2024. Dr.
Wang and Dr. Eng were dismissed on May 7, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication by Defendant Thomas, M.D. is DENIED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant
Jessica Thomas, M.D., in reply, submits objections to the declaration of
Michael Ritter, M.D. Objection Nos. 1-5 are OVERRULED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Jessica Thomas, M.D. (“Dr. Thomas”) moves this court
under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c for an order granting summary
judgment/summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ causes of action for
professional negligence and loss of consortium on the grounds (1) Plaintiff’s
complaint against Dr. Thomas is time-barred; (2) Dr. Thomas’ care and treatment
of Plaintiff Michael Corominas at all times conformed to the standard of care
for emergency medicine physicians; (3) no negligence on the part of Dr. Thomas
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff Michael Corominas’ alleged
injuries; and (4) Plaintiff Lisa Corominas’ loss of consortium claim is
dependent on Plaintiff Michael’s claim for medical malpractice and therefore,
must fail. 
 
The elements of medical malpractice are:¿“(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
 
Time-Barred 
 
Dr. Thomas first moves for summary judgment on the grounds Dr.
Thomas was not properly served with a 90-day notice extending the statute of
limitations. Dr. Thomas asserts Mr. Corominas knew upon discharge from West
Hills Hospital on February 21, 2020 that he had been rendered paraplegic and
accordingly, this lawsuit had to have been brought by February 21, 2021, absent
service a 90-day notice under Code of Civil Procedure section 364. 
 
Section 364 provides that “[n]o action based upon the health care
provider’s professional negligence may be commenced unless the defendant has
been given at least 90 days’ prior notice of the intention to commence the
action.” (CCP § 364(a).) Section 365 makes it clear that a failure to comply
“shall not invalidate any proceedings of any court of this state, nor shall it
affect the jurisdiction of the court to render a judgment therein.” (CCP §
365.) Instead, a failure to comply is merely a ground for discipline for the
attorney who failed to comply. (See CCP §365; see also Toigo v. Hayashida
(1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 267, 268-69.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 364(d) tolls the statute of
limitations by ninety days when the notice of intent to sue is served during
the last ninety days of the limitations period. (CCP § 364(d); Woods v.
Young (1991) 53 Cal.3d 315, 325.) 
With respect to the one-year statute of limitations, this means that a
plaintiff has one year and ninety days in which to file the lawsuit if the
plaintiff serves a notice of intent within the last ninety days of the
limitations period.  (Woods, supra,
53 Cal.3d at 325.)
 
Dr. Thomas argues Plaintiffs improperly served their 90-day Notice
to Dr. Thomas by mailing the notice to the hospital where Dr. Thomas works.
(Charles Decl., Exh. B.)  In Hanooka
v. Pivko (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1553, the patient mailed a notice of intent
to commence action against the health care providers at the hospital where they
maintained staff privileges. The court found serving the physicians at the
hospital did not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 364 because doing
so would “run counter to the purposes of giving a health care provider notice
of the imminence of suit and promoting prelitigation settlement, which can only
be effectuated if the health care provider has actual notice.” (Hanooka v.
Pivko (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1559.) As a result, because Section 364 notice
was invalid, Dr. Thomas contends the statute of limitations ran on February 21,
2021, and Plaintiffs’ complaint was filed April 26, 2021. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Emergency Rule 9 tolled the
statute of limitations thereby extending Plaintiff’s deadline to file suit. Per
Emergency Rule 9, and for statutes of limitations extending beyond 180 days,
“the statutes of limitations and repose for civil causes of action that exceed
180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020.”  Cal.
Rules of Court, appen. I, emergency rule 9 (a); see Ables v. A. Ghazale
Brothers, Inc. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 823, 825 (restating rule). 
Taking Dr. Thomas’ February 21, 2020 as the date of accrual, the cause of
action would have been tolled 178 days, bringing the statute of limitations to
August 18, 2021. As the complaint was filed April 26, 2021, the court finds the
complaint timely. The court notes Plaintiffs did fail to comply with Code of
Civil Procedure section 364 by failing to properly serve Dr. Thomas the 90-day
notice per Hanooka
 
Standard of Care and Causation 
 
In support of their motion for summary judgment, Dr. Thomas
presents the expert declaration of Roy Antelyes, M.D., Board Certified
Emergency Medicine physician. Dr. Antelyes received his medical degree from the
University of Southern California in 1977 and has been Board-Certified in
Emergency Medicine since 1983. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Antelyes completed
his residency at Huntington Memorial Hospital and UCLA Medical Center. (Dr.
Antelyes Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Antelyes also holds several administrative positions
including Associate Director, Huntington Memorial Hospital Emergency Group,
Inc. and Pediatric Liaison Physician, Huntington Memorial Hospital Emergency
Medical Group, Inc. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶3.) Dr. Antelyes testifies based on
his education, training, and substantial experience as an emergency physician,
as well as his review of the aforementioned records, the care and treatment of
Mr. Corominas received from Dr. Thomas complied with the applicable standard of
care and nothing in the emergency department physicians did or failed to do was
a substantial factor in causing Mr. Corominas’ ultimate outcome. (Dr. Antelyes
Decl. ¶¶6-11.) Dr. Antelyes testifies upon Mr. Corominas presentation at West
Hills Hospital on January 30, 2020, Dr. Thomas saw Mr. Corominas for his
complaints of gradually worsening back pain over the past week after doing
workouts the day prior to onset. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) Physical examination
of Mr. Corominas revealed intermittent full body spasms, diffuse lower back
tenderness with palpable spasm, sensation intact throughout the lower
extremities, strength 5/5 bilateral ankles, difficulty moving at the hip
secondary to pain, and post void residual of 381. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) Dr.
Thomas discussed the case with Dr. Diehl, the hospitalist, who agreed to admit
the patient for continued pain management. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) Dr. Thomas
also spoke with Dr. Mortazavi, a neurosurgeon, who agreed to consult. (Dr.
Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) Thereafter, Mr. Corominas was admitted to Dr. Diehl for
further care with Dr. Mortazavi for neurosurgery consult. (Dr. Antelyes Decl.
¶9.) An MRI revealed an epidural abscess, for which Dr. Mortazavi operated. (Dr.
Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) At discharge on February 21, 2020, the patient had no
movement of his lower extremities. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶9.) Given Mr. Corominas
originally had no signs of cord compression or cauda equina syndrome and
declined an MRI when he saw Dr. Wang, Dr. Thomas acted appropriately when Mr.
Corominas was re-admitted to the hospital. (Dr. Antelyes Decl. ¶10.) Dr. Thomas
admitted Mr. Corominas to Dr. Diehl for further care with Dr. Mortazavi. (Dr.
Antelyes Decl. ¶10.) 
 
Accordingly, Dr. Thomas has met their burden of showing, by expert
declaration, they did not breach the standard of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injury. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show, by contrary expert declaration,
that a triable issue of fact exists.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff submits the expert declaration of Michel
S. Ritter, M.D., a Board-Certified physician in Emergency Medicine. (Dr. Ritter
Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Ritter received his medical degree from the University of
California, Irvine in 1991 and completed his residency in emergency medicine at
the University of California, Irvine in 1994. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶1.) Dr. Ritter
is an Associate Clinical Professor in the Department of Emergency Medicine at
UCI and holds several administrative positions including Director, Emergency
Department Medical Education at Mission Hospital and Emergency Department
Attending Physician at Mission Hospital, Regional Medical Center, and
Children’s Hospital in Mission Viejo, California. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶¶2-3.) Dr.
Ritter opines based his education, training, and substantial experience as an
emergency medicine physician, Dr. Thomas’ conduct fell below the standard of
care and was a substantial cause of Plaintiff’s spine infection as a result of
no antibiotics, leading to worsening sepsis and ultimately, leading to his
outcome of paraplegia. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶21.) Specifically, when Mr. Corominas
presented at West Hills Hospital on January 30, 2020 with an MRI report,
laboratory revealed a white blood cell count of 37,450, blood sugar of 498 and
elevated absolute metamyelocytes. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶12.) Mr. Corominas was
subsequently diagnosed with sepsis with septic shock secondary to multiple
staphylococcus aureus abscesses in the epidural spine and acute kidney injury
but Dr. Thomas was not told of the positive sepsis screening by the nursing
staff. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶13.) Dr. Thomas also did not order any testing for
determining the inflammation markers of Mr. Corominas or the sedimentation rate
to rule out an infection. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶14.) Based on the extremely
elevated white blood cell count that Mr. Corominas presented with on January
30, 2020, the standard of care required Dr. Thomas to also look at inflammatory
markers to rule out infection as opposed to an elevated white cell count due to
steroid use. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶16.) If she had done so, Dr. Ritter opines Dr.
Thomas would have been presented with lab results showing high CRP and
procalcitonin levels and therefore, would have known that Mr. Corominas was
dealing with a severe infection and would have started him on a broad-spectrum
antibiotics to treat or at least slow down the infection. (Dr. Ritter Decl.
¶16.) Moreover, since Mr. Corominas was taking Prednisone, a steroid, and there
was concern about an elevated white blood cell count, the standard of care
required Dr. Thomas to order a sedimentation rate. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶17.) If
the sedimentation rate was high, this would have led Dr. Thomas to suspect an
infection and would have led to a full sepsis workup. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶17.) Furthermore,
due to Mr. Corominas high blood sugar level, the standard of care would have
been for Dr. Thomas to question whether the high blood sugar level was due to
an infection and if she had considered such, additional labs would have
revealed an infection. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶18.) Dr. Thomas also asserts that the
MRI report, which Dr. Thomas reviewed when Mr. Corominas presented at the
hospital, had an abnormality that would not be there unless for an infection
and the standard of care required Mr. Thomas to consult with a radiologist to
review the MRI. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶19.) Nothing in the records indicate she
ever considered having this consultation. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶19.) Lastly, the
standard of care required Dr. Thomas to carefully review the labs that had been
resulted on January 30, 2020. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶20.) There is nothing in the
record that indicates Dr. Thomas considered the results including the elevated
metamyelocyte. (Dr. Ritter Decl. ¶20.) Accordingly, Dr. Riter opines Dr. Thomas’
conduct fell below the standard of care and was a substantial factor in Mr.
Corominas’ damages. 
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have met their burden in establishing a
triable issue of material fact. Dr. Thomas argues that Dr. Ritter’s declaration
is inadmissible as unsupported speculation. The court disagrees. While courts
liberally construe the declarations for the plaintiff’s experts and plaintiff
is entitled to all favorable inferences derived from the expert’s declaration,
“these principles in no way eliminate the need for some form of ‘reasoned
explanation,’ and it remains the case that any inferences must ‘reasonably be
derived from’ the declaration.”  (Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 770, 782.) Dr. Ritter’s declaration is supported by a reasoned
explanation of the underlying facts including if Dr. Thomas had looked at the
inflammatory markers as required based on the elevated white blood cell count,
Dr. Thomas would have discovered Mr. Corominas was dealing with a severe
infection and that broad-spectrum antibiotics would have treated the spine
infection or at least slowed down the infectious process. (Dr. Ritter Decl.
¶16.) Dr. Ritter opines that the infection as a result of Dr. Thomas’ breach
worsened, which led to sepsis and ultimately led to paraplegia. (Dr. Ritter
Decl. ¶21.) Dr. Thomas also argues that Dr. Ritter is discounting Dr. Thomas’
deposition testimony that infection was part of her differential diagnosis for
this patient. However, this is not cited to in Dr. Thomas’ separate statement
or provided in Exhibit B. 
 
Since the court has found a triable issue of material fact for the
professional negligence claims, Ms. Corominas’ loss of consortium claim still
stands. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication by Defendant Thomas, M.D. is DENIED. 
 
 