 Case Number:  24VECV01374    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  W MAXIMO BELLEZA
NARVAEZ, JR v. MARCX S. DIAZ
 
plaintiff’s
motion to have plaintiff’s request for admissions deemed admitted and motion to
compel defendant marcx dias to respond to plaintiff’s form interrogatories 
 
Date of Hearing:        August
15, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01374
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Maximo
Belleza Narvaez Jr.  
Responding Party:     Defendant
Marcx S. Diaz 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff Maximo
Belleza Narvaez Jr. filed a complaint against Defendant Marcx S. Diaz for
fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and accounting. Plaintiff alleges they are a
general partner with Defendant Diaz in a restaurant called Cebunchon, located
in Woodland Hills. Plaintiff alleges on March 15, 2024, a dispute ensued
between Plaintiff and Defendant Diaz about the handling of the daily cash
collections, deposits, remittance, and tips received from Cebuchon and as a
result of the dispute, Defendant Diaz unilaterally decided to relinquish and
turn-over management and operations of Cebuchon to Plaintiff. Plaintiff also
alleges Defendant Diaz convinced Plaintiff to sell 5% ownership to Diaz’s brother-in-law,
Dino Adrian Potato, and misrepresented to Plaintiff that Cebuchon was short of
funds. As a result, Plaintiff did not receive a full amount for the 5%.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant also misrepresented that Plaintiff’s investment
into Cebuchon would generate a good return of investment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Have Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions Deemed Admitted is MOOT;
Sanctions Awarded in Reduced Amount. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Defendant Marcx Dias To Respond To Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories is
MOOT; Sanctions Awarded in Reduced Amount. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Maximo Belleza Narvaez, Jr.
moves the court for an order for Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions (Set One)
to Defendant Marcx S. Diaz to be deemed admitted as well as an order for
Defendant Diaz to respond to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories. Plaintiff seeks $1,875.00
against Defendant per motion. 
 
Defendant opposes the motions on the grounds Diaz has now provided
verified responses, thus rendering the motion moot. Defendant also acknowledges
that Plaintiff has a right to sanctions but asks this court to limit the
sanctions to Diaz counsel only and that the court award minimal sanctions on
the grounds there is no evidence of discovery abuse and Plaintiff served
discovery within ten days of the answer being filed and filed the motions only
five days after discovery responses were due. Moreover, Plaintiff did not seek
to informally resolve this issue prior to the hearing. 
 
The court GRANTS the request for monetary sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,950.00, total, against Defense Counsel only. The court awards 2.5
hours for working on both the motion to compel interrogatories and request for admissions
as the research and preparation are nearly identical. Similarly, the court
awards 1 hour for the Reply papers. The court only awards .5 hours for
attending the hearing as only one appearance was necessary. Plaintiff is also
entitled to the $75 filing fee per motion. 
 
 