 Case Number:  23VECV02280    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  T BEDOY V LA MTA 23VECV02280
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and
Anthony Earl Wright’s Motion to Compel an Additional Medical Examination and to
Re-Open Discovery and Continue Trial is GRANTED WITH CONDITIONS.  The Court continues trial for 90 days and not
the 180 days requested.
Trial is continued to ______________, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
Final Status Conference is continued to ________________,
2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Introduction 
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and Anthony Earl Wright (collectively, Defendants) moved for an order
requiring Plaintiff Francisco Padilla Bedoy (Plaintiff) to submit to a
neuropsychological exam.  Defendants
further requested the re-opening of discovery and a continuance of trial for
180 days.
Discussion 
Defendants requested continuance of the June 27, 2024 trial
date and the reopening of discovery or continuance of discovery cutoff
dates.  Trial continuance is
discretionary upon the showing of  good
cause based upon the following factors, in relevant part:  (6) A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c)(6).)  Defendants sufficiently
showed their diligent efforts in seeking a mental exam based upon their
informal efforts in December 2023 (Lior Behdadnia Decl. par. 7-8, and 10.) and
Defendants’ formal efforts in April 2024, which resulted in Plaintiff
stipulating to the neuropsych exam. 
(Steven Garcia Decl. pars. 6-7, Exhs. 4-5.)  In late April 2024, Defendants then sought to
obtain the availability of their neuropsychologist and served the demand for
neuropsychological exam.  (Garcia Decl.
par. 8-11, Exhs. 7-9.)  These efforts by
Defendants showed a diligence.  Because
Defendants' inability to obtain evidence as to Plaintiff’s mental state,
Defendants have shown good cause for a trial continuance.
Plaintiff disputes that the mental exam is essential or
necessary but failed to present admissible evidence to support the
contention.  Plaintiff’s own evidence
contradicts the contention.  Defendants,
as well as Plaintiff, submitted Plaintiff’s son’s deposition testimony showing
that Plaintiff suffers from increased forgetfulness, memory lapses, difficulty
working and performing daily activities, headaches, and  memory changes.  (Garcia Decl. par. 5, Exh. 3; Behdadnia Decl.
par. 5, Exh. A-B.)  The evidence shows an
injury resulting in a change of mental state. 
The fact that Plaintiff has not treated with a neuropsychologist does
not outweigh Plaintiff’s son’s testimony. 
There is sufficient facts presented to show the necessity for a mental
exam.   
The Court further noted that the trial date is close.  The trial was originally set for May 16, 2024
and was continued to the June 27, 2024 date. 
There was no suggestion of any alternative means to address the problem
nor was there any prejudice shown against Plaintiff.  The case is also not entitled to preferential
trial setting.  Although the Court’s calendar
is impacted, the trial continuance will not affect other pending trials.  The Court also finds that the interests of
justice are best served by allowing the disclosure of all facts through
discovery.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(d).)  These factors are seen to
weigh in favor of a short continuance.
Defendant’s request to continue the trial date is
persuasive.  However, the request to
continue the trial 180 days is unreasonable and excessive, especially in light
of the fact that Defendants already secured a mental exam with their expert in
June 2024.
The Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED but only for 90
days. 
Granting a trial continuance does not automatically continue
the cutoff dates.  The discovery cutoff
date is May 28, 2024 based upon the June 27, 2024 trial date.  The reopening of discovery is discretionary
upon the Court based upon statutory factors, including but not limited to:  (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery; (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier;
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery
motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party;
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and
the date presently set, for the trial of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 2024.050.)  As reviewed above, there is sufficient
showing for the necessity of the mental exam and Defendants’ diligence in
seeking the mental exam.  With
continuance of the trial date, prejudice to Plaintiff is minimal.  The trial continuance is also only for 90
days, which is sufficient for the mental exam to be conducted.  There is good cause for a limited continuance
of the cutoff dates to the new trial date.
Defendants’ motion to reopen discovery and continue the
cutoff dates to the new trial date is GRANTED WITH CONDITIONS.
Defendants’ motion seeks a third medical exam consisting of
a neuropsychological/mental exam.   (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 2032.310.)  Defendants
provided that Plaintiff stipulated to the exam on April 17, 2024.  (Exh. 5.) 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff reneged on the stipulation based upon
the expiration of the discovery cutoff. 
Because the discovery cutoff is no longer merited grounds to renege on
the stipulation, there is good cause to order the neuropsychological/mental
exam of Plaintiff.
The court does not grant unlimited discovery.  The court grants continuance of the discovery
cutoff for the following only:
1.           For the
neuropsychology examination to take place.
2.           For
plaintiff to supplementally designate a neuropsychologist.
3.           To
complete expert depositions.
Defendants’ motion for a mental exam is GRANTED in theory.
HOWEVER, the court finds that the demand for the examination
does not meet the requirements of the code. 
It fails to identify specifically what tests will be performed, how long
the examination will take, and other relevant parameters.  The exam is not required to go forward until
the request complies with the code in this respect.
The court also orders the following restrictions for a
neuropsych exam:
1.           The
plaintiff and the doctor have a right to record all aspects of the examination
and testing.
2.           Plaintiff
has a right to drink liquids whenever he wishes.
3.           Plaintiff
has a right to snack breaks on demand.
4.           Plaintiff
has a right to restroom breaks on demand.
5.           If the
total time for exam and testing exceeds 6 hours, plaintiff has a right to a .5
hours lunch break about half way though the day.
6.           The total
time for exam and testing shall not exceed 8.5 hours from time of arrival at
the doctor's office to the time of leaving the doctor's office.  This accounts for the lunch break of .5 hours
leaving 8 hours for examination and testing.
7.           Plaintiff
is not a patient of the doctor. 
Therefore, he shall not sign any consent or arbitration forms.  This is a court ordered examination.

              IT IS SO ORDERED, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.