  Case Number:  23VECV00891    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  T Murphy v  Sherman Oaks Hospital 23VECV00891 Tentative  ruling: Motion to file Second Amended Complaint: Grant.  See, below for analysis. The court  has carefully considered the request to file a Second Amended Complaint.  The court has previously denied defendant’s  Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the First Amended Complaint.  After defendant answered the First Amended  Complaint, the plaintiff filed this motion to file a Second Amended  Complaint.   The basis for the Motion for Judgment on the  Pleadings was that there was no prayer for damages and no specification what “intentional  tort” was being advanced against defendant.  Although the court denied the motion, plaintiff  seeks to amend to address these issues.   Hence, the proposed Second Amended Complaint identifies causes of action  for assault, battery, false imprisonment, intentional infliction of emotional  distress, gender violence, and negligence, and sets forth a prayer for relief.  It should be noted that the SAC is not only  against the defendant hospital, but also against 3 John Does who plaintiff  alleges were involved in her assault. Defendant hospital  opposes the motion because: The motion fails to comply with CCP       section 473 and Rule 3.1324 The plaintiff failed to serve the exhibits       on the defense counsel The plaintiff failed to present competent,       admissible evidence in support of the motion to demonstrate there is a       substantial probability that she will prevail The plaintiff failed to present competent,       admissible evidence in support of the motion to demonstrate there is a       substantial probability that she will prove punitive damages   Items 3 and  4 are not any recognizable grounds to deny a motion to amend and they are  disregarded.  Concerning  Item 2, if plaintiff has since served the Exhibits on defendant, that is no  longer an argument against the motion.   If the Exhibits have not been served on defendant, then the motion will  be continued to allow the exhibits to be properly served.  As to Item  1, there is no violation of CCP section 473(a) which allows the amendment of a  pleading.  Defendant claims there is a failure  to provide an “affidavit of merits.” Defendant cites to cases which pertain to  the application for leave to amend after the granting of a motion for  judgment on the pleadings, in that it amounts to a motion for relief under  section 473 and must be supported by an affidavit of merits.  This is not the case here; the court DENIED  the motion for judgment on the pleadings.   No affidavit of merits was required.   The plaintiff is NOT  required in  a motion to amend to present competent, admissible evidence to show she will  prevail in the case or that she will prove punitive damages.   Instead,  plaintiff need only submit a declaration under Section 3.1324 which states the  effect of the amendment, why it is necessary, when the facts giving rise were discovered  and why the request was not made earlier.   Here, the declaration of plaintiff attached to the motion satisfies  these requirements.   The other  requirements of Section 3.1324 are that plaintiff was to state what allegations  in the previous pleading are to be added and deleted.  This is more difficult because one was a form  complaint and one is not, and there is no correlation to each other.  This may be remedied by plaintiff serving a  copy of the Second Amended Complaint to underline what is new, and a copy of  the First Amended Complaint to underline what has been deleted.  