..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23TRCV02565
Plaintiff's Name: Daimel Garcia
Defendant's Name: Walmart, Inc
People-Names: Daimel Garcia, Robert Ewing, Cayota Batts
Company-Names: Walmart, Inc
Places: Walmart location
Dates: July 13, 2023, August 9, 2023, October 27, 2023, June 24, 2024, July 12, 2024, August 13, 2024, September 5, 2024, September 10, 2024, September 18, 2024
Events: Personal injury action, alleged incident, motion to strike, opposition, reply, court hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To strike punitive damages from the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that after an alleged threat was neutralized, loss prevention and security employees of Walmart stopped and severely assaulted him by punching him in the head repeatedly, resulting in concussion syndrome.
Disputes: Whether the allegations in the complaint support a claim for punitive damages against Walmart, Inc
Acts: Motion to strike, opposition, reply, filing of complaint and amended complaints
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, Civil Code section 3294
Case Citations: Stafford v. Shultz, Goodman v. Kennedy, Smith v. Superior Court, Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc., Dawes v. Superior Court, College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court, White v. Ultramar, Inc., Cruz v. Home Base
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc. ยง 435(b)(1), Code Civ. Proc. ยง 436, Code Civ. Proc. ยง 435.5, Civil Code section 3294
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The court grants the motion to strike punitive damages.
* The allegations in the complaint do not support a claim for punitive damages against Walmart, Inc.
* The court finds that there are insufficient facts pled in the SAC to support a claim for punitive damages as to a corporate defendant, such as Walmart.
* The court denies leave to amend the complaint.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has ruled that the defendant's motion to strike punitive damages from the plaintiff's complaint is granted. The plaintiff alleged that Walmart's loss prevention and security employees assaulted him after an alleged threat was neutralized, resulting in concussion syndrome. The judge found that the allegations in the complaint do not support a claim for punitive damages against Walmart because there are insufficient facts pled to show that the corporation had advance knowledge of the incident or ratified the conduct of its employees. The judge also denied the plaintiff's request for leave to amend the complaint, finding that there is no reasonable possibility of successful amendment.
