 Case Number:  24TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered non-party County of Los Angeles’s motion and exhibits attached thereto, the court rules as follows: the motion to quash purported service of complaint is granted.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn February 27, 2024, Plaintiff Chaka Theus (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Lilianna Navarro (“Navarro”), Raquel Rivas (“Rivas”), Ariel Pounds (“Pounds”), Brandon Nichols (“Nichols”), Cynthia Miller (“Miller”), and Children and Family Services County of LA (“CFS”), alleging causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) intentional tort. The Complaint is set forth on a Form PLD-PI-001.On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of Civil Subpoena, which indicates that a civil subpoena was served on Deputy Clerk Kelly Walker on June 5, 2024. (See 06/06/24 Proof of Service.)On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service. (07/17/24 Proof of Service.) The July 17, 2024 proof of service indicates that a JUD-100 form and CIV-100 form was served on Christina Talamontes by personal service on July 17, 2024. (07/17/24 Minute Order.)On August 6, 2024, non-party County of Los Angeles (“County”), specially appearing, filed and served the instant Motion to Quash Purported Service of Complaint. County moves “to quash the purported service of the Complaint by Plaintiff . . . on County’s employees, directors, and Departments in this case.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:5-7.)On August 12, 2024, Defendants Pounds and Rivas filed and served a Notice of Joinder indicating that they join the motion filed by non-party County.On August 13, 2024, Defendant Nichols filed a Notice of Joinder indicating that he joins the motion filed by non-party County. The notice of joinder filed by Defendant Nichols was served on Plaintiff on August 8, 2024.As of September 13, 2024, no opposition has been filed to the motion to quash. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)An OSC re: Failure to File Proof of Service, Failure to Prosecute, and Failure to File Case Management Conference Statement is set for hearing on September 18, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff alleges that due to the professional negligence of Defendants Navarro, Rivas, Miller, Pounds, and Nichols, she was placed in harms way by providing a known gang member her statement and name. (Complaint at p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that she is “being harassed, [her] apartment is being broken into, car vandalize[d] and [her] life [is] being threaten[ed].” (Complanit at p. 4.)III. LEGAL STANDARD“A defendant who takes the position that the service of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the jurisdiction of the court, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) “The effect of such notice is to place upon the plaintiff the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Ibid.) “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) Personal service is accomplished when a copy of the summons and complaint is delivered to the person to be served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsNon-party County alleges that the “Children and Family Services County of LA” is not a suable entity, and that the purported service efforts are not effective as to any defendant. The joining defendants argue in their notices of joinder that the purported service efforts are not effective as to any defendant.Responding Party’s OppositionNo opposition filed as of September 13, 2024.Moving Party’s ReplyNo reply brief filed as of September 13, 2024.Merits of the MotionInitially, the Court notes that none of the proofs of service filed by Plaintiff in this action show service of the summons and complaint on any defendant. Thus, based on the record before the Court, no defendant has been served in this action with the summons and complaint. While the Court recognizes that Plaintiff is self-represented, a self-represented litigant is “held to the same standards as attorneys.” (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.)Here, non-party County argues that “Children and Family Services County of LA” is not a suable entity for purposes of a money damages lawsuit as it is not a public entity. A public entity “includes the state, the Regents of the University of California, the Trustees of the California State University and the California University, a county, city, district, public authority, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State.” (Gov. Code § 811.2.) A county may sue and be sued. (Gov. Code, § 23004, subd. (a).)Although non-party County is not named in the Complaint, County argues that Plaintiff is suing affiliated entitles and that non-party County is a public entity.While the Court finds that Plaintiff has not served the summons and complaint on any party to an action, a motion to quash service of summons can only be made by a party to an action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10.) Based on non-party County’s motion, it appears that County concedes and recognizes that it is a public entity and that it should be named in the Complaint instead of Defendant Children and Family Services County of LA.Thus, taken together, non-party County and—by joining in the motion—Defendants Pounds, Rivas, and Nichols all argue that no defendant has been properly served in this action. The Court agrees. Plaintiff has failed to oppose the motion and “[a] failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to the granting of the motion.” (Cal. R. Ct., Rule 8.54(c).) The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has conceded to the arguments raised in the motion. By failing to oppose the motion, Plaintiff has not met her burden of showing that service was proper.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the motion to quash filed by non-party County of Los Angeles is GRANTED.Non-party County of Los Angeles to give notice.The Motion to Quash Purported Service of Complaint filed by non-party County of Los Angeles on 08/06/2024 is granted.