  Case Number:  23TRCV02565    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Strike
             The court considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 BACKGROUND
            This
personal injury action involves an alleged incident that occurred on July 13,
2023, while Plaintiff Daimel Garcia (“Plaintiff”) was shopping at a Walmart
location. He alleges that after any perceived threat was neutralized, loss
prevention and security employees of Walmart stopped and severely assaulted him
by punching him in the head repeatedly even after he had been knocked down to
the floor, which resulted in concussion syndrome.
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Complaint against Defendant Walmart, Inc (“Defendant”).
            On
October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
            On
June 24, 2024, the court granted Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages
and allowed 20 days leave to amend.
            On
July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Assault and Battery; and (3) Premises
Liability.
            On August
13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike. On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On September 10, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in
its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
DISCUSSION
i.                   
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration
satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5; Wise Decl., ¶ 5.)  
ii.                 
Merits 
Defendant
moves to strike portions of the complaint relating to punitive damages. 
To state a
claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie
where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)  
 
“Malice” is
defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th
847, 891.)  
 
To prove
that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or
even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82,
87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant
acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer
that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a
reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined
as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.) 
 
            “An employer shall not be liable for
[punitive] damages ..., based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless
the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294.) The California
Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement as requiring the officer,
director, or managing agent to be someone who ‘exercise[s] substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563,
577.) Furthermore, there must be allegations
that the managing agent was acting as a corporate representative or in a
professional capacity. (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at 724.)
As to punitive damages, the SAC
alleges that Defendants were on notice of the violent and dangerous nature of
its security and loss prevention employees, and failed to implement safety
measures to address the threat to patrons. (SAC, ¶ 14.) The SAC also alleges
that Defendants and its managing agents ratified the conduct of its loss
prevention employees, including but not limited to Robert Ewing and Cayota
Batts, by failing to terminate or in any other way discipline any of their
employees involved in the incident, and by failing to provide any additional
training with respect to the use of physical force and violence. (Id., ¶ 25.)
The court finds there are
insufficient facts pled in the SAC to support a claim for punitive damages as
to a corporate defendant, such as Walmart. As the court previously ruled, the
allegations regarding advance knowledge are entirely conclusory. The FAC
contains no facts regarding prior incidents or advance knowledge of any
corporate managing agents to support these conclusory allegations. 
As to ratification, “[a]
corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not actually know
about.’” (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167, citing College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal. 4th at 726 [for
ratification sufficient to justify punitive damages against corporation, there
must be proof that officers, directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge
of the malicious conduct and its outrageous character.].) As noted by this
court in the prior motion to strike, there are no facts pled to show whether
Walmart’s managing agent knew of the incident in order to take disciplinary
action or provide training to prevent violence. 
Based on
the foregoing, the motion to strike punitive damages is granted. As Plaintiff
was given an opportunity to cure the defects in the pleading, and failed to do
so, it appears there is no reasonable possibility of successful amendment.
Thus, leave to amend is denied.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.