 Case Number:  23TRCV04104    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered plaintiff’s demurrer and
motion to strike, defendants’ opposition, and plaintiff’s reply, the court
rules as follows: the demurrer to first and second causes of action in the
cross-complaint is overruled; the demurrer to the third cause of action in the
cross-complaint is sustained without leave to amend; the motion to strike is
granted in part without leave to amend. 
I.                  
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho
Palos Verdes (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging three causes of action
against Defendants George Cashman Jr. (Cashman), Cynthia C. Makin (Makin), and
the GFC Administrative Trust. The Complaint arises from an alleged breach of
the “Declaration No. 150 of Establishment of Basic Protective Restrictions,
Conditions, Covenants, Reservations, Liens, Charges, and Certain Local
Restrictions” (CCRs), when Plaintiff discovered that a fence extends beyond
Plaintiff’s permitted easement in violation of the CCRs. The Complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) trespass; (2) breach of CC&Rs; and (3)
declaratory and injunctive relief. 
 Plaintiff
filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction, which was fully briefed, and
Defendants Makin and Cashman (Defendants) opposed the motion.  
On
June 4, 2024, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff alleging
causes of action for: (1) quiet title; (2) declaratory relief; and (3)
injunctive relief. 
On
June 18, 2024, after hearing oral argument and taking the matter under
submission, the Court granted the motion for preliminary injunction in part.
(06/18/24 Minute Order.) The Court indicated that “Plaintiff may remove the
fence from their property identified as ‘Lot 127.’ Such removal will be at no
cost to Defendants. No undertaking is required.” (06/18/24 Minute Order at p.
1.) The Court found that Plaintiff was likely to prevail on the merits as to
Lot 127. (06/18/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) The Court noted that “Defendants
provide[d] no evidence that they own Lot 127, [and] Defendants merely attempt
to put the title in question” and that such “attempt fail[ed] because Plaintiff
. . . produced evidence that they in fact own Lot 127.” (06/18/24 Minute Order
at p. 3.) As to the property adjacent to Portuguese Bend Road, the Court found
that Plaintiff had not carried its burden. (06/18/24 Minute Order at pp. 4-5.)   
On
September 11, 2024, Defendants filed and served an Errata the Cross-Complaint
and have provided a verification for the Cross-Complaint attached thereto. 
Now,
Plaintiff demurs to each cause of action in the Cross-Complaint, and also moves
to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint. Defendants filed oppositions to the
demurrer and motion to strike, to which Plaintiff filed replies. 
II.               
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
The Court finds it necessary to set forth
the allegations of the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint. The Complaint alleges
the following: Plaintiff is the owner of Lot 127 in Rolling Hills and is the
holder of road easements in a 698-home planned development (the “Development”)
in the City of Rolling Hills. (Complaint, ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendants are the owners of
a property at 2 Crest Road East, Rolling Hills, CA 90274 (the “Cashman
Property”), which is managed by Defendant GFC Administrative Trust. (Complaint,
¶ 5.) 
 The Cashman Property is bound by the CCRs,
which are enforceable equitable servitudes that govern all owners. (Complaint,
¶ 9.) Plaintiff is a gated community with private roads, all owned and
controlled by Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) The roads were created by recorded
easements dedicated to Plaintiff and the Cashman Property is bordered on one
side by Portuguese Bend Road, which has a 40-foot road easement on the Cashman
Property (the “Road Easement”). (Complaint, ¶ 11.) The Road Easement is
recorded in Plaintiff’s CCRs and parcel maps recorded against the Cashman
Property with the Office of the County Recorder. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) 
Defendants own and control a three-rail
white wooden fence that extends up to 15 feet into the Road Easement.
(Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff has requested that Defendants remove their fence
so that Plaintiff can widen Portuguese Road’s shoulder to allow fire trucks to
use the shoulder in the event of a community evacuation. (Complaint, ¶ 12.)
Defendants refuse to remove the fence and blocked Plaintiff from removing the
fence. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) 
On the Crest Road East side of the Cashman
Property, their property abuts Lot 127, which is owned by Plaintiff.
(Complaint, ¶ 13.) There, Defendants own and control a three-rail white wooden
fence that extends approximately 24-feet onto Plaintiff’s Lot 127. (Complaint,
¶ 13.) Defendants have refused to remove their fence and have blocked Plaintiff
from removing the fence. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) 
In the Cross-Complaint, Defendants allege
the following: Plaintiff’s purported ownership of Lot 127 stems from a 1989
quitclaim deed that post-dates the creation and use of the subdivision by 50
years and the use of Lot 127 by Defendants and/or their predecessors by
approximately 25 years. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 7.) Defendants’ right to use a
portion of Lot 127 vested years before Plaintiff acquired the 1989 quitclaim
deed, and Plaintiff took title to Lot 127 with notice and knowledge of the
Defendants’ predecessor’s use of that real property. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 7.)
The Road Easement has been extinguished and/or terminated under the doctrine of
adverse possession. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 10.) Defendants allege that Plaintiff
does not own fee title to Lot 127 and the quitclaim deed that purported to
convey an interest in Lot 127 to Plaintiff was defective. (Cross-Complaint, ¶
14.) Defendants allege that the owners of the Cashman Property, over the
decades, have established a prescriptive easement, an equitable easement, an
irrevocable license, an implied easement, and maintain the right to use Lot 127
that includes the fencing and the mature trees. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 15-19.) 
III.            
LEGAL STANDARD
A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a
complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special
demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is
so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif.,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
When considering demurrers, courts accept all
well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide
Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.) 
Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show
the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  
IV.            
DISCUSSION 
Moving Party’s Arguments 
Plaintiff contends that each cause of
action in the Cross-Complaint fails because, in its ruling on the motion for
preliminary injunction, the Court made clear that ownership of Lot 127 was
settled. Plaintiff further argues that the “law of the case” doctrine holds
that the Court’s decision as to Lot 127 is settled. As to the third cause of
action, Plaintiff asserts that injunctive relief is a remedy and not a cause of
action. 
As to the motion to strike, Plaintiff argues
that: (1) Defendants have failed to verify their Cross-Complaint for quiet
title; and (2) the cause of action for injunctive relief must be stricken as it
emanates from the unverified cause of action for quiet title.   
As to both the demurrer and motion to
strike, Plaintiff requests that leave to amend not be allowed. 
Responding Party’s Opposition 
In opposition to the demurrer, Defendants
assert the following: (1) the granting or denial of a preliminary injunction
does not amount to an adjudication of the ultimate rights in controversy; (2) a
demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained; (3)
ownership is a question of fact when conflicting facts exist; (4) the “law of
the case” doctrine only applies to determinations of an appellate court and not
to interim rulings such as a preliminary injunction; and (5) the demurrer
challenges the third cause of action for injunctive relief solely on the
grounds as a standalone cause of action.   
In opposing the motion to strike, Defendants
argue that: (1) they have provided a verification of the Cross-Complaint; and
(2) similar to the demurrer, the motion to strike challenges the third cause of
action for injunctive relief solely on the grounds as a standalone cause of
action.   
 Defendants request leave to amend if the
demurrer is sustained. 
Moving Party’s Reply 
On reply, Plaintiff argues that: (1) Defendants
are mistaken that the demurrer did not address the elements of a quiet title
cause of action; (2) the Cross-Complaint is still unverified; (3) Defendants’
argument as to Lot 127 fails as to the judicially noticeable documents
submitted in support of the motion for preliminary injunction settled the
issue; (4) the Court has authority to bifurcate issues, so Defendants’ argument
regarding a demurrer disposing of an entire cause of action fails; (5)
Defendants do not address the flaws in their injunctive relief cause of action;
(6) the “law of the case” doctrine holds that the Court’s decision with respect
to Lot 127 is settled; and (7) the third cause of action for injunctive relief
is a remedy and not a cause of action.   
As to the motion to strike, Plaintiff
argues that: (1) Defendants have still failed to verify their Cross-Complaint;
(2) the injunctive relief cause of action fails because it emanates from the
unverified Cross-Complaint; and (3) the cause of action for injunctive relief
must be stricken as it is not a standalone cause of action.    
Merits of the Demurrer and Motion to
Strike 
A.   
Meet
and Confer 
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement
can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) A motion to strike has a similar meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5.) 
The Court finds that the meet and confer
requirement has not been met as the parties only exchanged email and letter correspondence
as to the issues in the Cross-Complaint. (Meerson Decls.) The Court will still
assess the demurrer and motion to strike on the merits; however, the Court
reminds the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of
Civil Procedure. 
 B.    
The
Law of the Case Doctrine is Inapplicable, and the Issue of Ownership of Lot 127
is not Settled
“[A] preliminary
injunction is an order that is sought by a plaintiff prior to a full
adjudication of the merits of its claim.” (Costa Mesa City  Employees’ Assn. v. City of Costa Mesa (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 298, 305, citation omitted.) “The purpose of such an order is
to preserve the status quo until a final determination following trial.” (Ibid.)
A preliminary injunction “does not constitute a final adjudication of
the controversy.” (Ibid., emphasis added.) 
“The law of the
case doctrine holds that when an appellate opinion states a principle or
rule of law necessary to the decision, that principle or rule becomes the law
of the case and must be adhered to through its subsequent progress in the lower
court and upon subsequent appeal.” (People v. Cooper (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 500, 524, emphasis added, citations omitted.) “For the doctrine to
apply, the point of law involved must be necessary to the prior decision . . .
[and] the matter must have been actually presented and determined by the court,
and . . . the application of the doctrine will not result in an unjust
decision.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)  
The Court finds
that the law of the case doctrine is inapplicable to the Court’s ruling on
Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction. First, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s reliance on Nelson v. Tucker Ellis LLP (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th
827 is inapposite because such case involved whether a principle of law
articulated by the First District Court of Appeal constituted the law of the
case in a subsequent appeal. (Nelson v. Tucker Ellis LLP, supra,
48 Cal.App.5th 827, 837-38.) Plaintiff’s citation to In re Marriage of
Nicholas (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1566 on reply is inapposite because In
re Marriage of Nicholas did not even address the applicability of the law
of the case doctrine. 
Here, there has
been no appellate opinion issued in this case because no party has appealed a
ruling of this Court. Moreover, the Court did not state a principle of law as
to the ownership of Lot 127 in its order on the motion for preliminary
injunction. To the contrary, the Court did not definitively find that Plaintiff
owned Lot 127. (06/18/24 Minute Order.) 
In ruling on the
motion for preliminary injunction, the Court found that Plaintiff was likely to
prevail on the merits and that Defendants presented no evidence that they
possessed title to Lot 127. (06/18/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) However, there was
no final order as to the ownership of Lot 127. (06/18/24 Minute Order.) The a
preliminary injunction is not a final adjudication; rather it is an interim
order to preserve the status quo. 
Based on the
allegations of the Complaint and Cross-Complaint, the issue of ownership of Lot
127 is in conflict. “A question as to ownership of property may be one of fact
or law, depending upon whether the determination of the issue involves a
decision upon conflicting facts or upon the application of the law to a stated
set of facts.” (Lieb v. Superior Court In and For Orange County (1962)
199 Cal.App.2d 364, 368.) Here, despite the ruling on the request for
preliminary injunction, there is clearly a dispute as to who owns Lot 127. 
Given that the
Court has deemed ownership of Lot 127 to still be at issue, and that the law of
the case doctrine is inapplicable, the basis for the demurrer fails. 
In addition,
Plaintiff’s demurrer is premised on the ownership of Lot 127 but does not
address the Road Easement while the first and second causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint make allegations concerning both parcels. By only seeking a
demurrer only as to Lot 127, Plaintiff’s demurrer has only targeted a portion
of the first and second causes of action which is improper. (PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 (“[a] demurrer does not lie
to a portion of a cause of action.”).)  
C.    
First
Cause of Action for Quiet Title 
An action for
quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or
personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd.
(a).) In an action for quiet title, a plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description
of the property that is the subject of the action,” specifically the location
of tangible personal property and the legal description and street address or
common designation of real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to
which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,”
(3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a
determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is
sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination of the title of the
plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
Here, the quiet
title cause of action seeks to quiet title to Lot 127 and the Road Easement.
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 22-24.) Defendants have stated sufficient facts to state a
cause of action for quiet title as the requirements of CCP § 761.020 have been
met. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 25-29; Cross-Complaint at p. 10:12-24.) Moreover, by
filing the Notice of Errata with the attached verification, the Cross-Complaint
is now verified. 
The Court
therefore OVERRULES Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first cause of action in the
Cross-Complaint. 
D.   
Second
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
Initially, the
Court notes that while the demurrer challenges the sufficiency of the second
cause of action for declaratory relief in the notice of motion, Plaintiff makes
no argument in the memorandum of points and authorities concerning the
sufficiency of the cause of action for declaratory relief.  The reply brief also fails to make an
argument as to the sufficiency of the second cause of action for declaratory
relief. Plaintiff has therefore conceded to the sufficiency of the second cause
of action because “[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to support them
with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water
Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) 
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and
brackets omitted.)
Here, Defendants
have alleged that a dispute exists regarding the parties’ rights, obligations,
and duties to use the Cashman Property and Lot 127, which includes the Road
Easement. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 31.) Defendants seek a judicial declaration of
the parties’ rights with respect to the use of the Cashman Property and Lot
127. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 32.)
The Court
therefore finds that the second cause of action for declaratory relief is
sufficiently alleged, and the Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s demurrer to the
second cause of action in the Cross-Complaint. 
 E.     Third Cause of
Action for Injunctive Relief 
“The elements of
a cause of action for injunctive relief are (1) a tort or other wrongful act
constituting a cause of action; and (2) irreparable injury, i.e., a factual
showing that the wrongful act constitutes an actual or threatened injury to
property or personal rights which cannot be compensated by an ordinary damage
award.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman
Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410, citation omitted.) Notably,
“injunctive relief is a remedy and not, in itself, a cause of action, and a
cause of action must exist before injunctive relief can be granted.” (Camp v. Board of Supervisors (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 334, 356.) 
Here, Defendants have stated valid causes
of action for quiet title and declaratory relief. Defendants allege that they
have no adequate remedy at law for the threatened injuries “including . . . the
potential loss of their fences and the removal of mature trees that have grown
on their [p]roperty for decades.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 35.) 
Injunctive relief, however, is not a cause
of action and is merely a remedy. Under Camp v. Board of Supervisors, supra,
123 Cal.App.3d 334, 356, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the third cause of
action in the Cross-Complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
F.     
Motion
to Strike 
Plaintiff seeks to strike the causes of action
for quiet title and injunctive relief from the Cross-Complaint, and their
associated prayers for relief. 
As to the quiet title cause of action,
Plaintiff contends that the Cross-Complaint is not verified and cites to Ridec
LLC v. Hinkle (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1182 (Ridec) for the proposition
that a verification must filed alongside the Cross-Complaint. Ridec,
however, does not articulate a rule of law that a verification must be filed at
the same time as a cross-complaint. (Ridec LLC v. Hinkle, supra,
92 Cal.App.5th 1182, 1196.) 
The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s
request to strike the quiet title cause of action and the associated prayer for
relief.
 As to the injunctive relief cause of
action, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that injunctive relief is not a
standalone cause of action. The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to
strike such cause of action from the Cross-Complaint and its associated prayer
for relief WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The motion to strike is therefore GRANTED
IN PART.
    
V. CONCLUSION 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES
the demurrer of Plaintiff to the first and second causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Plaintiff to the third
cause of action in the Cross-Complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.    
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion to strike
filed by Plaintiff. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to strike the quiet
title cause of action from the Cross-Complaint. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request to strike the third cause of action for injunctive relief and its
associated prayer for relief from the Cross-Complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Plaintiff Rolling
Hills Community Association of Rancho Palos Verdes to give notice. 
The demurrer filed
by Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palso Verdes on 8/7/2024
is overruled as to the first and second causes of action in the cross-complaint
and sustained without leave to amend as to the third cause of action therein. 
The motion to
strike filed by Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palos
Verdes on 8/7/2024 is granted in part. The Court denies Plaintiff’s request to strike the
quiet title cause of action from the Cross-Complaint and its associated prayer
for relief. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request to strike the third cause of
action for injunctive relief and its associated prayer for relief from the
Cross-Complaint without leave to amend. 