 Case Number:  23TRCV00302    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  M Motion
to Compel City of Hawthorne’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Business
Records
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING:  

The
court stays discovery of the criminal investigative information in this action
for the next 90 days. The motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
Considering
plaintiffs’ concern as to obtaining additional information to amend their complaint
as to punitive damages, the court orders that plaintiffs are provided an
additional 120 days to amend its complaint. Furthermore, the court find the
City’s has offered to extend the statutory deadline to July 31, 2024. for
plaintiffs to add the city to the lawsuit; accordingly the Court finds the
deadline has thus been extended. 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.
 
BACKGROUND
            On February 2, 2023, plaintiffs
Carlos Leon, Eva Leon, and T.L, a minor by and through her GAL, filed a
complaint for (1) negligence, (2) wrongful death, and (3) NIED.
            On March 28, 2023, plaintiffs filed
an amendment to complaint designating Angel H. Alcazar Reyez as Doe 1.
            On April 24, 2023, plaintiffs filed
a FAC, adding a cause of action for negligence per se.
            On July 21, 2023, plaintiffs filed
an amendment designating Ana K. Reyes as Doe 31.
            On July 27, 2023, the court granted
Raul Alcazar, UAS Tires & Wheels, Inc. and Angel H. Alcazar Reyez (Doe 1)’s
motion to strike punitive damages with 90 days leave to amend.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 1987.1(a) states, “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.  In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.” 
            “[U]pon motion reasonably made by
the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling
compliance with, subpoenas.”  Lee v.
Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 575,
582-83.  Either the nonparty witness who
has been subpoenaed or any party to the action may challenge the deposition
subpoena.   Weil & Brown, Civ.
Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:597.   
“A written notice and all moving
papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to
compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must
be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent
agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or
electronic service address specified on the deposition record.”  Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
request an order compelling the City of Hawthorne to comply with a deposition
subpoena for production of business records. 
This case is a wrongful death
action where plaintiffs allege that 13-year old Michael died when he was struck
as a pedestrian by a speeding vehicle driven by defendant Angel Herminio
Alcazar Reyez, within the City of Hawthorne. 
The FAC alleges that defendants are the owners and/or operators of a
high performance Chevrolet Camaro involved in the accident, which is the
subject of this action.  FAC, ¶13.  The accident occurred near West El Segundo
Blvd. in Hawthorne.  Id., ¶14.  On January 8, 2023, in the evening hours,
defendants were operating the subject vehicle, which fatally struck plaintiffs’
decedent who was attempting to cross and/or was crossing El Segundo Blvd.  The subject vehicle also caused bodily
injuries to plaintiffs Carlos Leon and T.L. 
Id., ¶15.  Defendants used the
vehicle as a promotional and advertising vehicle for defendants.  The subject vehicle was well known to the
residents of Hawthorne as a vehicle used in the promotion of defendants’
businesses.  The vehicle was depicted on
social media in promoting wheels, tire rims, and tires for high performance
vehicles.  Id., ¶16.  At the time of the collision, defendants were
driving at an excessive, reckless speed, and defendants were engaged in racing
and/or dangerous exhibition of speed with defendants Does 6 to 10.  Id., ¶17. 
Plaintiffs “witnessed the catastrophic death of their beloved decedent
causing plaintiffs’ severe emotional distress and permanent emotional
injuries.”  Id., ¶19.  At all times relevant to the incident, Does 1
to 10 were racing each other and/or engaging in a reckless exhibition of speed
thereby contributing to and/or proximately causing the subject accident.  Id., ¶20. 
At the time of the accident, defendants operated the subject vehicle in
violation of Vehicle Code §§22350, 21801, 23103, and 23109, and Penal Code
§192(c)(1).  Id., ¶21.
            The FAC also alleges that defendants
willfully and deliberately exercised despicable conduct and conscious disregard
for the safety of the public and of plaintiffs by allowing defendant driver to
drive the vehicle knowing full well that they frequently drove over the speed
limit and/or engaged in racing and other dangerous operation of the
vehicle.  Id., ¶35.
            Plaintiffs
assert that on June 21, 2023, they served non-party City of Hawthorne, through
the Hawthorne Police Department, with a business records subpoena seeking
various documents related to the subject incident, including the Traffic
Collision Report prepared by the Hawthorne Police Department and a detailed
forensic investigation that was conducted. 
The subpoena is summarized as follows:
1.      Unredacted
copy of Hawthorne Police Dept. Traffic Collision Report No. 22-18532
2.      All
documents/tangible things/electronically stored information re calls relating
to the incident, including the 911 log, all log tapes or recordings, Journal
Report/CHP Centralized CAD Journaling System report, identify of persons who
took the call
3.      All
documents re the identity of all officers/deputies that responded to and/or
handled the incident
4.      All
documents re photographs, video recordings and/or audio recordings of incident,
incident scene, any investigation of the incident
5.      All
documents evidencing communications, including memoranda of oral
communications, between the City and any witness to the incident
6.      Any
documents re all person who were present at the scene of the incident on the
day of the incident
7.      Any
documents re a statement taken by any party, person, and/or witness to the
incident
8.      Any
documents reflecting notes regarding the incident
 
Plaintiff
explains that on July 19, 2023, the City notified plaintiffs’ process server
that “unfortunately our office is unable to disclose the requested traffic
accident pending an active litigation.”  Plaintiffs’
counsel met and conferred with the City. 
On August 8, 2023, the City sent a letter to plaintiffs’ counsel
reiterating its decision to not “release investigation records pertaining to
ongoing criminal matters,” and cited to Evidence Code §1040 and County of
Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 759,
764-65.  In an August 24, 2023 meet and
confer letter, the City stated that there are several witnesses to the
incident, “some of whom are friends or relatives of the suspect” and that
should the investigative materials be released to these individuals prior to the
preliminary hearing, at the least, or the trial, these individuals will have
the opportunity to craft their testimony in a manner that may be favorable to
the defendant.”  The letter also stated
that the LA County District Attorney “indicated that he does not want the
investigation records to be produced at this time due to the pending criminal
investigation.”  In a letter dated August
25, 2023, plaintiffs’ counsel contends that the investigation was completed
when the criminal matter was submitted to the DA’s office and that the
defendant is already in possession of all the investigation materials.
Plaintiffs
argue that good cause exists for the production of documents because the
records sought are crucial to plaintiffs’ investigation of their claim and
potentially culpable third parties. 
Plaintiffs argue that as to Evidence Code §1040, plaintiffs’ substantial
interests in obtaining the records do not conflict with the public
interest.  Plaintiffs further argue that
the City has not established that preserving the confidentiality of the information
outweighs the necessity for its disclosure in the interest of justice, when the
requestors are “the victims of a fatal, high-speed car versus pedestrian
crash.”  Plaintiffs also contend that County
of Orange v. Superior Court is inapposite because in that case the parents
of the deceased child were also suspects. 
Moreover, plaintiffs assert, defendant has been charged and defense
counsel has already obtained the records through the criminal discovery
process; thus, there is no risk of jeopardizing any investigation because the
investigation is complete.  See attorney
Guillermo Barrantes decl. 
In
opposition, the City argues that the records are protected from disclosure
under Evidence Code §1040, County of Orange v. Superior Court, and People
v. Jackson (2003) 110 Cal. App. 4th 280, 287.  The City contends that the subpoena seeks
confidential police investigative files pertaining to an ongoing criminal
investigation in which the civil defendant in the civil lawsuit is also the
criminal defendant in the criminal action. 
The City argues that if the records were produced to plaintiffs, a “real
danger exists” of the records being produced via civil discovery to
defendants.  The City asserts that the
disclosure of such documents poses a significant risk to the integrity of the
ongoing criminal investigation and potentially jeopardizes it.  The City presents the declaration of Officer
Anthony Barlin, the primary traffic investigator, who states that “[d]isclosure
of any parts of the investigation would severely and negatively impact the
success of the investigation because such disclosure would reveal to the
suspect he amount and nature of evidence obtained thus far, the identity of
witnesses, and the methodology used by the Hawthorne Police Department when
conducting criminal investigations. 
Premature disclosure of this information would aid the suspect in
evading or minimizing the criminal charges and/or prosecution of the crimes
charged.”  The City further asserts that
plaintiffs “will not be deprived of the investigation file forever” and that
once the criminal matter is concluded, plaintiff will be provided with the
file, and that there is no exigency or pressing need for plaintiffs to obtain
the investigation file.  As to the City,
plaintiffs filed a tort claim and the City has offered
to extend the statutory deadline to July 31, 2024 for plaintiffs to add the
City to the lawsuit.  

Defendants’
counsel Andres Hurwitz filed a declaration stating that he does not have and has
never had a copy of the Traffic Collision Report in his possession, nor any of
the records that were reportedly provided by the DA’s office to the attorney
representing defendant in the pending criminal proceedings.  He does not represent the defendant in the
criminal case and “do[es] not want to do anything that would unnecessarily
prejudice his defense of that matter.” 
Counsel also states that he is “informed and believe that Mr. Alcazar’s
criminal defense attorney has not provided him with the documents, either.”
In reply,
plaintiffs reiterate their argument that their interests outweigh the public
interest in nondisclosure.  Plaintiffs
note that there is a “pressing need” as they have only 90 days to amend their
complaint (until October 25, 2023) to add additional facts to support punitive
damages.  Plaintiffs reiterate that the
records have already been disclosed to the criminal defense attorney.
            Evidence
Code §1040 provides, “(a) As used in this section, ‘official information’ means
information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his or
her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time
the claim of privilege is made.
            (b)
A public entity has a privilege to refuse to disclose official information, and
to prevent another from disclosing official information, if the privilege is
claimed by a person authorized by the public entity to do so and either of the
following apply: . . . “(b)(2) Disclosure of the information is against the
public interest because there is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality
of the information that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest
of justice; but no privilege may be claimed under this paragraph if any person
authorized to do so has consented that the information be disclosed in the
proceeding.  In determining whether
disclosure of the information is against the public interest, the interest of
the public entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be
considered.”
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that non-party City of Hawthorne has met its threshold burden of showing that
the records sought in the deposition subpoena are privileged, official
information pursuant to Evidence Code §1040. Police investigator reports the
matter has been referred to the DA for prosecution, criminal prosecution is
pending and that the DA has explicitly instructed the police department not to
release, pictures and/or videos.  See Officer Barlin decl., ¶s2, 3, 5 and 6;
County of Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79
Cal. App. 4th 759, 764 (“[e]vidence gathered by police as part of an ongoing
criminal investigation is by its nature confidential.”) “[T]he
contents of police investigative files sought in civil discovery must remain
confidential so long as the need for confidentiality outweighs the benefits of
disclosure in any particular case.” Id.; People v. Bradley (2017) 7 Cal. App. 5th
607, 626 (“Ongoing investigations fall under the
privilege for official information.”). The police investigator relates that the
documents have not been released to any involved parties. See Officer Barlin
decl., ¶5. Yet Plaintiff’s counsel asserts the driver, Angel Alcazar Reyes’
criminal defense attorney has received discovery in the context of the criminal
proceeding; plaintiff’s counsel seeks that discovery. As in County of Orange
v. Superior Court, the court is not going to cherry pick out particular
parts of the investigation to produce in the civil matter.      
The court
takes judicial notice of the court’s records that criminal proceedings are
pending LASC Case No. SA108502.  The
defendant is out on bond on a charge of PC 192©(1) and is awaiting setting of a
preliminary hearing.  Given the status of
the criminal proceedings the court finds that disclosure of the information at
this juncture is against the public interest because there is a necessity for
preserving the confidentiality of the information as to the pending criminal
proceeding that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest of
justice. Thus,
the court stays discovery of the criminal investigative information in this
action for the next 90 days. The motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
Considering plaintiffs’ concern as
to obtaining additional information to amend their complaint as to punitive
damages, the court orders that plaintiffs are provided an additional 120 days
to amend its complaint. Furthermore, the court find the City has offered to
extend the statutory deadline to July 31, 2024. for plaintiffs to add the City
to the lawsuit; accordingly the Court finds the deadline has thus been
extended. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of ruling.