 Case Number:  22TRCV01447    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
MARIE
  HOROWITZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01447




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TODD
  BEACH,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 11,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Marie Horowitz’s personal representative Ellen
Horowitz
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Appoint a Successor in Interest Pursuant to CCP §377.31
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, Marie Horowitz filed
a complaint against Todd Beach for negligence and motor vehicle negligence
based on an incident that occurred on October 17, 2022 at 531 Pier Avenue,
Hermosa Beach. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Following the death of a party, any
legal action by that party may only proceed upon substitution of the decedent’s
personal representative or successor in interest in her place.  CCP §§377.31, 367.  CCP §377.31 states that, “[o]n motion after
the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall
allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.” 
            CCP §377.32(a) states:  “The person who seeks . . . to continue a
pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following: 
(1)   The decedent’s name. 
(2)   The date and place of decedent’s
death. 
(3)   ‘No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate.’
(4)    If the decedent’s estate was administered, a
copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor in interest. 
(5)   Either of the following, as
appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
(A) ‘The affiant or declarant is the
decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in
the action or proceeding.’ 
(B) ‘The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to
the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.’ 
(6)   ‘No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding.’ 
(7)   ‘The affiant or declarant affirms
or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California
that the foregoing is true and correct.’ 
(b) Where more than one person
executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements
required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that
fact. 
            (c) A certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or
declaration.” 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s personal representative Ellen
Horowitz requests an order allowing her to continue the action, in place of
plaintiff.
            Ellen Horowitz asserts that
plaintiff passed away on May 1, 2023. 
Her declaration complies with CCP §377.32.  A certified copy of the death certificate is
attached to the declaration.
            The motion is GRANTED. 
            Personal representative Ellen
Horowitz is ordered to give notice of this ruling.