 Case Number:  23TRCV01184    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JAKOB
  MEDINA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01184




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
VOLKSWAGEN
  GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 11,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Jakob Medina
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is deemed MOOT as to
plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-5, 7, 8, 10-15, 16-28,
31, and 34-35.  The motion is GRANTED as
to Nos. 33, 36, and 37.  Defendant is
ordered to produce responsive documents within 20 days.  The motion is DENIED as to Nos. 6, 9, 29, 30,
and 32.
BACKGROUND
            On April 17, 2023, plaintiff Jakob
Medina filed a complaint against Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. for
violations of Song Beverly Act.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Jakob Medina requests
that the court order defendant Volkswagen to provide further responses and
documents to plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos.
1-37.
            In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that on December 23, 2021, he purchased a 2022 Volkswagen Atlas.  The causes of action arise out of warranty
and repair obligations of defendant in connection with a vehicle that plaintiff
purchased and for which defendant issued a written warranty.  Complaint, ¶8.  Defendant warranted the subject vehicle and
agreed to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of plaintiff’s
vehicle or to provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or
performance.  In connection with the
purchase, plaintiff received various warranties, inter alia, a 4-year/50,000
mile express bumper to bumper warranty, a 4-year/50,000 mile powertrain
warranty, which covers the engine and the transmission, as well as various
emissions warranties.  Id., ¶9.  The subject vehicle was delivered to
plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities, including emission and
electrical system defects.  Id., ¶10.
            In the motion, plaintiff explains
that on August 19, 2022, with approximately 10,291 miles on the odometer,
plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility,
Pacific Volkswagen, for the purpose of performing Recall Campaign 97GF,
pertaining to the Front Door Wiring Harness. 
Upon the completion of the Recall Campaign, the technician cleared all
faults and then presented to plaintiff that the vehicle was operating as
intended.  
            On November 18, 2022, with
approximately 13,650 miles, plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to
defendant’s authorized repair facility, complaining that the minimum oil light
to be illuminated on the instrument cluster. 
In response, the technician topped off oil to its proper level, then
performed recall 06G4.  Additionally,
plaintiff also reported of the front assist wiring inadvertently
separating.  In this repair opportunity,
defendant’s technician also performed Safety Recall 13i4, pertaining to the
Engine Connecting Rod.
            On January 20, 2023, with
approximately 16,005 miles, plaintiff presented the vehicle to the authorized
repair facility, complaining that the minimum oil light had illuminated on the
instrument cluster, for a second time. 
The technician claimed that no oil leaks were present.  The technician suggested for plaintiff to
return the vehicle after driving a minimum of 650 miles to successfully conduct
an oil consumption test.  
            On March 3, 2023, with approximately
17,631 miles, plaintiff returned to the authorized repair facility to
consummate the oil consumption test.  Upon
inspection, the technician revealed the vehicle to have failed the oil
consumption test.  Upon further
inspection, defendant’s technician proceeded to perform replacement of all
intake and exhaust valve stem seals and crank case ventilation valve.  After the proper replacements, the technician
topped off the oil to the proper level, and presented to plaintiff that the
vehicle was operating to warranty.  The
vehicle was out of service for approximately 13 days.
            On April 4, 2023, with approximately
18,479 miles, plaintiff presented the vehicle to the authorized repair
facility, and reported that the vehicle possessed an oil leakage ever since its
last visit to the repair facility.  To
address plaintiff’s concern, the technician performed a replacement of the
entire upper timing over, topped off engine oil, and then cleaned off any
unwanted residue.
            Plaintiff claims that none of the
repairs performed by defendant’s authorized repair facility permanently
repaired the defects. 
            Plaintiff asserts that on June 6,
2023, plaintiff propounded requests for production of documents, set one.  On July 10, 2023, defendant served
objections.  On July 12, 2023,
plaintiff’s counsel sent defense counsel a meet and confer letter.  On July 20, 2023, defendant further
responded, repeating the same objections. 
Plaintiff contends that defendant failed to produce many of the
responsive documents requested.  On
August 15, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter but,
plaintiff asserts, defendant has not adequately responded or supplemented its
responses.
            The court notes that the parties
entered into a stipulation and the court entered a protective
order—confidential designation on August 30, 2023.
             Specifically, plaintiff seeks documents (1)
relating to plaintiff’s own vehicle (Nos. 1-15); (2) relating to defendant’s
written warranties and the policies and procedures related to what is covered
under said warranties, how coverage is determined, training related to warranty
coverage, policies and procedures related to how defendant handles customer
complaints, and whether defendant abides by its affirmative duties to
repurchase defective vehicles under Song Beverly Act (Nos. 16-32); and (3)
establishing defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar defects in other
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle (Nos.
33-37).  
            Plaintiff argues that the documents
are discoverable because they will show whether defendant knew about the types
of defects plaguing plaintiff’s vehicle through its internal investigation and
analysis of customer complaints, warranty data, field service reports, recalls
and product evaluations and its ability (or inability) to repair the defects.  Plaintiff cites to Donlen v. Ford Motor
Co. (2013) 217 Cal. App. 4th 138, 143-44 (evidence of special
service bulletins issued before plaintiff bought his truck and evidence of
similar transmission problems in other trucks were relevant and admissible); Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 967, 973,
978-79, 986 (documents of warranty complaints, service histories, and employee
records concerning the subject defect in all affected vehicles and the
company’s responses and instructions regarding cure were discoverable and
relevant to issue of defendant’s good faith treatment of the problem).
            In opposition, defendant argues that
plaintiff failed to meaningfully meet and confer.  Also, defendant contends, it has not waived
its objections regarding electronically stored information.  Further, defendant argues, plaintiff failed
to establish good cause as the technical documents do not establish defendant’s
awareness of defects plaguing plaintiff’s vehicle or other establish good cause
for the requests at issue.  In any event,
defendant asserts, the motion is moot as to Nos. 1-5, 7, 8, 10-15, 16-28, 31, and
34-35 because on September 15, 2023, defendant produced responsive documents
subject to the protective order.  As to Nos.
6, 9, 29, and 30, defendant responded that it lacks the ability to comply.  As to Nos. 32, 33, 36, and 37, defendant
argues that its objections are proper, and the requests are vague, overbroad,
and unduly burdensome.
            The court rules as follows:  The
court finds that as to Nos. 1-5, 7, 8, 10-15, 16-28, 31, and 34-35, the
motion is MOOT as defendant purportedly produced documents after the protective
order was entered.
            Nos. 6, 9, 29, 30
                        No.
6 – all photographs and videotapes of the subject vehicle.
Defendant
responded:  “after diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, no documents responsive to this request exist within [defendant’s]
custody, possession or control because the documents have never existed.”
The court
finds that defendant’s response complies with CCP §2031.230.
No. 9 – all documents which evidence,
refer, or relate to plaintiff’s request for refund of the price plaintiff paid
for the subject vehicle. 
Defendant responded:  “all responsive documents in the demanded
category that are in [defendant’s] possession, custody, or control and to which
no objection has been made will be included in the produce.  See customer contact log.”
The court finds that defendant’s
response is code-compliant.
      No.
29 – all documents which evidence any predictive model used to determine if
one of defendant’s vehicles is a candidate for escalation.
Defendant
responded:  “after diligent search and
reasonable inquiry. . . , [defendant] lacks the ability to comply as the
particular item or category has never been in the possession, custody, or
control of [defendant] or never existed.” 
The court
finds that defendant’s response complies with CCP §2031.230.
No. 30 – all documents any consultant
provided [defendant] from 2016 to the present that are related in any way to
the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
Defendant
responded:  “after diligent search and
reasonable inquiry. . . , [defendant] lacks the ability to comply as the
particular item or category has never been in the possession, custody, or
control of [defendant] or never existed.” 
The court
finds that defendant’s response complies with CCP §2031.230.
Nos. 32, 33, 36, and 37
            No.
32 – all documents evidencing or describing statistics for the number of
repurchases and replacements defendant has made in California in response to
consumers’ personal requests (i.e., a consumer request without an attorney)
from 2016 to present.
            Defendant
responded with objections, including overbroad, vague and ambiguous, not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and
irrelevant, unduly burdensome, subject to attorney-client privilege and
protected by attorney work product. 
Defendant also asserts that it has produced confidential documents
regarding its policies/procedures and training materials pertaining to the
pre-litigation handling of repurchase requests.
The court finds that defendant’s
objections have merit, including overbroad and unduly burdensome.
To the extent any documents are
being withheld based on privilege pertaining to repurchases and replacements
defendant has made in California from 2021 to date concerning any of the
conditions, defects, or nonconformities similar to those for which plaintiff
alleges to have presented the subject vehicle, the responding party must
itemize those documents on a privilege log.
            No.
33 – all documents which evidence or describe the numbers of owners of 2022
Volkswagen Atlas vehicles who have complained of any of the conditions,
defects, or nonconformities for which plaintiff presented the subject vehicle
to defendant or defendant’s authorized repair facility for repair.
Defendant asserted several
objections.  See No. 32.
The court finds that defendant’s
objections lack merit, and that plaintiff has shown good cause.
            No.
36 – all documents which describe or discuss above-average repair rates to
2002 Volkswagen Atlas vehicles.
Defendant asserted objections.  See No. 32.
The court finds that defendant’s objections
lack merit, and that plaintiff has shown good cause.
            No.
37 – all documents which evidence or describe sales brochures, literature
or any other promotional materials provided or distributed by defendant
regarding vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle.
Defendant asserted objections,
including overbroad, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, and seeks the disclosure of
attorney-client, confidential, and/or proprietary business information.
The court finds that defendant’s
objections lack merit, and that plaintiff has shown good cause.
Accordingly, the motion is MOOT as
to Nos. 1-5, 7, 8, 10-15, 16-28, 31, and 34-35, GRANTED as to Nos. 33, 36, and
37, and DENIED as to Nos. 6, 9, 29, 30, and 32.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.
 