 Case Number:  23STCP01780    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEAH ALSPAUGH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BNY BANK, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP01780
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
Date: March 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Leah Alspaugh (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
BNY Bank (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Leah Alspaugh
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Mechanic Lien Claim for Unpaid Wages on
Labor against Defendant BNY Bank (“Defendant”).
 
            On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Motion for Default Mechanics Lien and Order for Default Judgment. The Court
denied this motion on September 29, 2023. 
            On September 26, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion to Quash Service of Summons. The Court granted this motion on
October 20, 2023. 
 
            On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this instant Motion for Reconsideration. On January 8, 2024, Defendant filed
its opposition. The reply was due on March 15, 2024. As of March 19, 2024, no
reply has been filed.              
 
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a).) 
 
As
it relates to new or different facts, circumstances, or law under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1008, subdivision (a), “the moving party must provide a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier
time.”  (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.)
Furthermore, “facts of which the party seeking reconsideration was aware at the
time of the original ruling are not “new or different.” (In re Marriage of
Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.) 
 
Timeliness 
A
formal notice of ruling is required to set the time limit running to file a
motion for reconsideration. The 10-day time limit runs from service of notice
of entry of the order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)   
 
            The Court’s ruling on Defendant’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons was served on the parties on October 20,
2023. Plaintiff filed this instant motion four (4) days later. Thus,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration is timely because it was filed within
ten (10) days of formal notice of the ruling on the Motion to Quash Service of
Summons. 
 
Motion for Reconsideration 
            As a preliminary matter, the Court
notes that the present motion is titled “Motion for Reconsideration Amended
Complaint Motion to Compel,” which is procedurally improper. Nonetheless, the
motion reads this as a motion for reconsideration of the Court’s October 20,
2023 ruling on Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons. As such, the
Court will treat the motion as one for reconsideration, not one to compel or
amend the complaint. 
 
            Plaintiff argues proof of service
was properly filed with the complaint and the complaint is valid. Plaintiff
further contends the Court did not recognize the May 23, 2023 filing of her
claim for mechanic lien filed with the clerk’s office of Los Angeles, CA.
Plaintiff also contends Defendant is a corporation where any summons and
complaint can be served on any employee, operator, director, broker, or dealer
in the complaint. Moreover, Plaintiff raises several arguments concerning
Defendant’s now moot demurrer. Lastly, Plaintiff attempts to compel subpoenas
served on purported witnesses and mentions filing an amended complaint. 
 
            In opposition, Defendant argues
Plaintiff merely asserts she has properly served Defendant and that in her
opinion the Court does not have jurisdiction over the Defendant. Furthermore,
Defendant asserts Plaintiff attempts to attack its Demurrer that the Court has
already deemed moot. As such, Defendant argues this present motion is
completely devoid of any new facts or law that support reconsideration. In
fact, Defendant contends the motion simply recites and references “proofs of
service” dates which were deemed insufficient at the October 20, 2023 hearing.
Defendant also asserts Plaintiff failed to attach any “proofs of service” for
the complaint in this instant motion that comply with California laws that
govern service for a business. Moreover, Defendant argues that this instant
motion is procedurally defective because it lacks the required affidavit  detailing the first motion and the respects
in which the new motion differs from it but rather argues the overall merits of
the case. Similarly, Defendant contends the bulk of this motion simply repeats
the allegations in the unintelligible Complaint. Additionally, Defendant
contends the Court’s analysis of the law in Defendant’s motion to quash is
sound and correct. Finally, Defendant asserts Plaintiff failed to comply with
the service requirements of Code of Civil Procedure Section 416.10 as the
Mechanics Lien Complaint was not mailed to a person designated as agent for
service of process, not served on other parties able to receive service of its
behalf as a corporation, failed to provide evidence establishing actual
delivery to the person to be served for service by mail outside the state; and
failed to comply with additional requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
Section 417.20. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
motion is facially deficient as it does not comply with the affidavit
requirements setting forth what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. Further, Plaintiff does not
attempt to present any new or different facts or law that would establish a
basis for reconsideration of the October 20, 2023 order. 
 
            Therefore, the motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 