  Case Number:  21STCV09480    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MICHELLE VASQUEZ,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES PROBATION
  DEPARTMENT; KENNETH MITCHELL; CLEMMIE MURDOCK; and DOES 1 through 30,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV09480
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PERSONNEL INFORMATION
  PURSUANT TO CAL. EVID. CODE SECTION 1043/PITCHESS MOTION 
 
Date: March 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Michelle Vasquez
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On May 24, 2021, Plaintiff Michelle Vasquez
(“Plaintiff”) filed this operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
Defendants County of Los Angeles Probation Department; Kenneth Mitchell;
Clemmie Murdock; and DOES 1 through 30 (“Defendants”), inclusive for: (1)
Discrimination on the Basis of Disability; (2) Discrimination on the Basis of
Race; (3) Work Environment Harassment; (4) Retaliation [Gov. Code, § 12940];
(5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation; (6)
Retaliation [Labor Code, § 1102.5]; (7) Failure to Engage in Good Faith
Interactive Process; and (8) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation. 
 
            On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this instant Motion for Personnel Information (Pitchess Motion). On March
11, 2024, Defendant County of Los Angeles (“CLA”) filed its opposition. The
reply was due on March 15, 2024. As of March 18, 2024, no reply has been filed.       

DISCUSSION
            A motion to discover a law
enforcement officer’s personnel file or other police agency record that
contains relevant information is called a¿Pitchess¿motion.¿(Pitchess
v. Superior Court¿(1974) 11 Cal.3d 531, 536-540.)¿The¿Pitchess¿motion
has been partly codified in Evidence Code § 1043, which makes law enforcement
personnel records privileged and subject to disclosure only by noticed
motion.¿(Evid. Code, § 1043; Pen. Code, § 832.7(a).)¿The statutory scheme
governing¿Pitchess¿motions is set forth in Evidence Code §§ 1043-1047
and Penal Code §§ 832.5, 832.7, 832.8.¿(People v.¿Mooc¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th
1216, 1226.)¿These statutes provide the exclusive means of discovery of such
records in both criminal and civil proceedings.¿(County of Los Angeles
v.¿Sup. Ct.¿(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1609-1610.)¿¿ 
 
“Under
the statutory scheme, a party seeking discovery of a peace officer’s personnel
records must follow a two-step process.¿First, the party must file a written
motion describing the type of records sought, supported by affidavits showing
good cause for the discovery…,¿setting forth the materiality thereof to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable
belief that the governmental agency identified has the records¿or information
from the records.¿This initial burden is¿a ‘relatively relaxed
standard.’¿¿Information is material if it¿will facilitate the ascertainment¿of
the facts and a fair trial.¿A¿declaration by counsel on information and belief
is sufficient to state facts to satisfy the ‘materiality’ component of that
section.”¿(Haggerty v.¿Sup. Ct.¿(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1085-1086¿(Haggerty),
internal citations and quotations omitted.)¿The motion must provide a “specific
factual scenario” that establishes the materiality of the discovery sought.¿(City
of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court¿(1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 85-86¿(Santa Cruz).)¿The
documents must be requested “with adequate specificity” to preclude the
possibility that the moving party is engaged in a “fishing expedition.”¿(People
v.¿Memro¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 658, 678 (Memro), overruled on unrelated
grounds in¿People v. Gaines¿(2009) 46 Cal.4th 172, 181, n.
2.)¿Information consisting of complaints concerning conduct occurring¿more than
five years before the event or transaction that is the subject of the
litigation in aid of which discovery is sought must be excluded from
disclosure.¿(Evid. Code, § 1045(b).)¿¿¿ 
 
“Second,
if¿the trial court concludes¿[a party]¿has fulfilled these prerequisites and
made a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court
all documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the [requesting party’s]¿motion….¿The
trial court ‘shall examine the information in¿chambers,¿out of the presence and
hearing of all persons except the person authorized to possess the records¿and
such other persons¿the custodian of records is willing to have
present….¿Subject to statutory exceptions and limitations¿...the trial court
should then disclose to the defendant such information that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.” (Haggerty,¿supra,
117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086, internal quotation marks and citations
omitted). 
 
Pitchess Motion
            Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling the production of peace officer files and records regarding
Supervising Detention Services Officer Clemmie Murdock (“Murdock”), now retired
Senior Detention Service Officer Kenneth Mitchell (“Mitchell”), Supervising
Detention Service Officer Alton Caldwell (“Caldwell”), and Supervising
Detention Officer Scott Hagerman (“Hagerman”). 
 
Specifically,
Plaintiff seeks the following:
 
1.     Copies of all
records, reports, or investigative reports filed, pending, completed or
otherwise made, and all other writings pertaining to any of discriminatory,
harassing or retaliatory conduct by Defendants Murdock and Mitchell, officer
Alton Caldwell and officer Scott Hagerman, including but not limited to
documentation of employee complaints of such conduct; 
2.     Names, addresses
and telephone numbers of all persons who have complained about discriminatory,
harassing or retaliatory conduct by Defendants Murdock and Mitchell, officer
Alton Caldwell and officer Scott Hagerman; 
3.     Copies or
transcripts of all tape recorded or written statements by any person, including
Defendants Murdock and Mitchell, officer Alton Caldwell and officer Scott
Hagerman, which were taken in connection with any investigation initiated,
filed, pending, completed or otherwise made regarding any complaint of
discriminatory, harassing or retaliatory conduct; 
4.     Names, addresses
and telephone numbers of all persons giving such statements including but not
limited to, persons involved in the case at hand; 
5.     Information
regarding any discipline that was imposed on any officer listed above in any
incident involving the above-mentioned conduct, including any conduct towards
Plaintiff; 
6.     Any information
contained in personnel or internal investigation files which indicates or
identifies previous employment or experience by Defendants Murdock and
Mitchell, officer Alton Caldwell and officer Scott Hagerman in law enforcement
related work; 
7.     Any and all
information related to any internal affairs or other similar investigation into
the incident that is the basis of this lawsuit, including but not limited to: 
a. names, addresses and phone numbers of people
contacted or interviewed; 
b. statements of people contacted or interviewed;

c. notes of any internal affairs or other
investigators; and 
d. any outcomes or conclusions of any internal affairs
investigations.
 
Plaintiff
argues good cause exists to obtain the personnel records of Defendants Murdock
and Mitchell, and Officers Caldwell and Hagerman. Plaintiff contends such
records will shed light on whether there has been any investigation,
disciplinary action, witness statements or other documents and information
related to grievances Plaintiff has filed against them. (Gabriel Decl, ¶¶ 7-8,
Exs. C-D.) Plaintiff further contends the records will aid her in discerning a
pattern and practice of discrimination, harassment and retaliation perpetrated
by the officers against employees of Plaintiff’s protected classes, as well as
their good faith complaints.  In fact,
Plaintiff asserts her own grievance against Caldwell states that he has had
numerous valid complaints against him throughout the years by several officers
but the Director has failed to protect employees from such tyranny. (Gabriel
Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. D.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues the attached declaration
supports a showing of materiality and good cause by attaching the relevant
documents such as her own grievances against the officers in question.
Plaintiff also contends the declaration attests with reasonable belief that
Murdock, Mitchell, Caldwell, and Hagerman have prior acts of misconduct against
other employees of Plaintiff’s protected classes, as well as grievances filed
against them by Plaintiff herself which should have been investigated and acted
upon by CLA. Additionally, Plaintiff asserts defense counsel has made it clear
that information in the officers’ personnel records relating to grievances,
investigations, disciplinary actions, or other complaints will not be produced
without a court order. Lastly, Plaintiff argues once the in camera hearing
occurs, she should be provided with all of the information contained in the
officers’ personnel files that is admissible evidence or could lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
In
opposition, CLA argues Plaintiff’s supporting affidavit includes her grievances
as evidence of materiality, which falls categorically short because a grievance
is simply a series of allegations and hearsay. Furthermore, CLA contends while
it can be argued that the decision on a grievance is relevant and admissible,
Plaintiff received the granting of her grievance when she was transferred out
of Barry J in November 1, 2020. (Compl., ¶ 46.) As such, CLA contends any
events or individuals after this date are irrelevant and beyond the scope of
this FEHA complaint and corresponding required administrative filings. CLA also
argues Plaintiff has not demonstrated good cause to entitle her to inspect the
statutorily protected and privileged personnel files of other peace officers
because the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel fails to demonstrate that the
information requested is relevant and necessary to the litigation. Moreover,
CLA asserts Plaintiff is on a fishing expedition because (1) she has not
deposed Hagerman, (2) she significantly shortened Mitchell’s deposition because
he had a court appearance and has never reset the deposition, and (3) she only
recently served discovery on CLA for the first time on January 5, 2024 and only
after CLA’s Motion for Summary Judgment was filed. CLA contends it is has not
yet provided responses and the Complaint was filed on March 10, 2021. In
addition, CLA also objects to Plaintiff’s request for documents pursuant to
Evidence Code Section 1040 because these individuals have not waived their
rights to confidentiality and privacy and these rights should protected.
Finally, CLA contends there is a clear and compelling public interest in
ensuring that a governmental entity, such as the Department, can maintain and
ensure the confidentiality of the personnel records of its employees. Thus, in
the event there are any documents remaining in controversy after the
consideration of this motion and opposition, CLA requests that the Court conduct
an in camera inspection of the any disputed documents in order to rule upon
claims of privilege, privacy, confidentiality, and lack of relevance. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently demonstrated the materiality of all the requested records. CLA
along with Murdock and Mitchell are charged with several FEHA and Labor Code
violations against Plaintiff and related grievances she has filed against them
and Officers Hagerman and Caldwell. Plaintiff also submitted a supporting
declaration from her counsel of record that asserts Murdock, Mitchell, and
Caldwell all refused to answer questions at their depositions related to any
complaints made against them by any coworkers or Plaintiff herself. As such,
Plaintiff now seeks discovery of their personnel records relating to prior
complaints to show Murdock, Mitchell, Hagerman, and Caldwell acted toward her
in a discriminatory, retaliatory, and harassing manner due to her gender, race
or disability. Plaintiff counsel’s averment establishes a specific factual
scenario for the assertion that Murdock, Mitchell, Hagerman, and Caldwell
discriminated against her based on her race, gender or disability. Plaintiff
counsel’s averment also established a specific factual scenario for the
assertion that CLA failed to prevent the discrimination, retaliation and
harassment that Plaintiff faced. Last, Plaintiff’s counsel avers that solely
and only CLA is in possession of the records sought by this instant motion. 
 
            Therefore, the motion for personnel
information (pitchess motion) is GRANTED subject to the five-year statutory
limitation.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



