  Case Number:  19CHCV00868    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 10-18-24
Case #19CHCV00868,
Albert Dib vs. Habibollah Elahinejad, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Albert Dib
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Habibollah Elahinejad and LA Home Improvement, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff is requesting
attorney fees in the amount of $181,650.00 from Defendants.
 
RULING: The
motion is granted in the amount of $181,300.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff
Albert Dib (Plaintiff) sued Defendants Habibollah Elahinejad and LA Home
Improvement, Inc. (Defendants) for a breach of lease. After a bench trial,
Plaintiff prevailed on his breach of lease claim. Judgment was entered in
Plaintiff’s favor on January 12, 2024, and Plaintiff was awarded $472,096.00 in
damages.
 
A provision of
the lease agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants allows Plaintiff to
recover attorney fees if he needed to bring an action to enforce the terms of
the lease agreement. (Stepanski Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) Because of this provision,
Plaintiff filed this motion for attorney fees pursuant to Civ. Code § 1717 on
January 18, 2024.
 
Plaintiff is
requesting $181,650.00 in attorney fees from Defendants. Plaintiffs argue in
their motion that the attorney fees and hourly rates are reasonable. Plaintiff’s
only evidence in support of his motion for attorney fees is a declaration from
his attorney, Lisa A. Stepanski. (Stepanski Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.)
 
Ms. Stepanski’s
hourly rate for trial, court appearances, settlement conferences, and
depositions was $350, and she represents that she charged Plaintiff 71.1 hours
at $350 an hour for a total of $24,885. (Stepanski Decl., ¶ 6.) She charged
Plaintiff $225 an hour for 513.2 hours of drafting motions and opposition, the
FAC and SAC, propounding and responding to written discovery, deposition
preparations and trial preparation, for a total of $115,470. (Stepanski Decl.,
¶ 7.) Finally, she charged Plaintiff $150.00 an hour for 275 hours to gather
and produce documents, review documents, communications, and research, for a
total of $41,250. (Stepanski Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
The total hours
spent on the case was 859.3 hours. When adding these together, the total
lodestar amount is $181,605. This is different from the $181,650 that Plaintiff
is requesting. It is unknown where the extra $45 comes from, unless Plaintiff
just transposed the numbers.
 
A hearing on
this motion was held on June 12, 2024. Defendants had argued that Plaintiff’s
attorney did not sufficiently document the reasonableness of her request. She
attached no billing statements to the motion, and the entirety of Plaintiff’s
request for attorney fees was based on his attorney’s declaration. At the
hearing, the Court continued the hearing on this motion and ordered Plaintiff
to provide a supplemental declaration with more detail regarding the billing.
 
On September
18, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney filed a supplemental declaration that included invoices
for the work performed as well as tables and graphs that broke down the work for
which Plaintiff is not requesting an award. The invoices were attached as Exhibit
1. On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney filed a supplement to her supplemental
declaration that included missing pages from her September 18 declaration.
 
On October 9,
2024, Defendants filed their further opposition to Plaintiff’s supplemental
declaration. Defendants argue in this opposition that Plaintiff has not
fulfilled his burden of establishing the necessity and reasonableness of the
attorney fees requested. Defendants also argue that the fees claimed by the
block billing entries submitted by Plaintiff should be discounted. Next,
Defendants argue that some of the work claimed by Plaintiff was not reasonably
necessary to the case or even pursued. Finally, Defendant argues that the Court
should award fees per the attorney fees schedule of the Court.
 
In Plaintiff’s
reply to Defendants’ further opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has met his
burden of establishing the necessity and reasonableness of the attorney fees
requested. Next, Plaintiff argues that the fees claimed by the block billing
entries should not be discounted. Plaintiff also argues that the work noted in
the invoices was appropriate under the circumstances. Finally, Plaintiff argues
that the Court should reject Defendants’ request to limit the attorney fees
award to a statutory limitation. At the end of his reply, Plaintiff indicates
that he is requesting $181,300 in attorney fees, which is slightly less than
what he previously requested.
 
ANALYSIS
A prevailing
party is entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees when authorized by contract,
statute, or law. (See CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Civ. Code § 1717(a).) “A
successful party means a prevailing party, and [a party] may be considered
prevailing parties for attorney’s fees purposes if they succeed on any
significant issue in litigation which achieves some of the benefit the parties
sought in bringing suit.” (Bowman v. City of Berkeley (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 173, 178.)
 
Plaintiff is
the prevailing party because Plaintiff prevailed on his breach of lease action.
Therefore, Plaintiff can recover attorney fees pursuant to Civ. Code § 1717.
 
In determining
the reasonableness of fees, courts look to the factors from Church of
Scientology v. Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, disapproved on other
grounds by Equilon Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53,
68 n.5. The factors from Wollersheim are (1) the amount of money
involved in the litigation; (2) the nature of the litigation and its difficulty
and the intricacies and importance of the litigation; (3) the skill required
and employed in handling the litigation, the necessity for skilled legal
training and ability in trying the case, and counsel’s education and experience
in the particular type of work involved; (4) the attention given to the case; (5)
the success of the attorneys efforts; and (6) the time consumed by the
litigation. (Id.)
 
First,
Defendants argue in their opposition that Plaintiff has not met his burden of
establishing the necessity and reasonableness of the attorney fees requested because
Plaintiff submitted block billing entries. Defendant argues that these entries
should be discounted. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s block
entries contain non-compensable items of an administrative, clerical, or
mechanical nature, such as sending documents for a signature or preparing
documents to be mailed. (Defendants’ Opposition, pp. 5-6.) Defendants also
challenge Plaintiff’s billing entries related to an MSC, arguing that it is
impossible to tell how much time was spent on each item because Plaintiff includes
all the tasks in one block.
 
Plaintiff argues
in his opposition that the block billing entries should not be discounted and
that the Arbitration Advisory which Defendants rely on does not support their
argument in favor of discounting rejecting the block billing entries. Plaintiff
cites a case where the Court found that “Trial courts retain discretion to
penalize block billing when the practice prevents them from discerning which
tasks are compensable and which are not.” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC
v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1010.) However, in the present case,
the block billing entries in the invoices attached as Exhibit 1 to the
Stepanski Declaration do not prevent the Court from determining which items are
compensable. They provide sufficient description of the tasks performed to
allow the Court to determine whether those items were compensable.
Additionally, a declaration attesting to the accuracy of the fee bill, which
Plaintiff has provided, is entitled to a presumption of credibility. (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 396.)
 
Furthermore,
the Court will note that in Syers Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 691, 698, the Court of Appeal found that “The trial court did
not abuse its discretion in accepting defense counsel’s computation of attorney
hours as hours reasonably spent working on the case. It is well established
that ‘California courts do not require detailed time records, and trial courts
have discretion to award fees based on declarations of counsel describing the
work they have done and the court’s own view of the number of hours reasonably
spent. [Citations.]’” (Id.) “‘Because time records are not required
under California law ..., there is no required level of detail that counsel
must achieve. See, e.g., PLCM Group[, supra, 22 Cal.4th at p.]
1098, 95 Cal.Rptr.2d 198, 997 P.2d 511 (‘We do not want “a [trial] court, in
setting an attorney’s fee, [to] become enmeshed in a meticulous analysis of
every detailed facet of the professional representation. It ... is not our
intention that the inquiry into the adequacy of the fee assume massive
proportions, perhaps dwarfing the case in chief,” ’…)’” (Id. at
699-700.) 
 
Based on the
language of Syers, the level of detail provided by Plaintiff in the
invoices is sufficient for the Court to determine if the hours were reasonably
spent. Plaintiff also argues that for entries where he has listed both
calendaring and responding to discovery, such as the May 13, 2020, entry, the
3.7 hours billed for that date is justified because responding to the discovery
could reasonably take that amount of time.
 
Plaintiff also
maintains that he, not Defendants, was charged for work related to the cannabis
Defendants and the unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff’s counsel claims that
she made a point to go through the entries where work on both things was
performed and give her best estimate for which work applied to which
Defendants. (Stepanski Sec. Supp. Decl., ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the Court will not
reduce the requested attorney fees based on Defendants’ block billing argument.
 
Next, Defendants
argue that some of the work claimed by Plaintiff was not reasonably necessary
to the case or even pursued. Defendants point to entries related to discovery
disputes in 2020, some entries related to service of objections, and some
entries related to work on the emotional distress claims. Defendants claim that
these entries were overzealous. Plaintiff argues in his reply that all of these
entries were necessary to the work on this case because the discovery in this
case was a mess, and the work by Plaintiff’s attorney was necessary to sort
through the discovery disputes. Plaintiff also argues that this work was not
overzealous and was necessary for the case.
 
To the extent
that Defendants are claiming that this work was unnecessary or that Plaintiff
was not successful in pursuing these disputes, the Court of Appeal has found
that compensation is ordinarily warranted even for unsuccessful attacks, to the
extent that those attacks lead to a successful claim. (City of Sacramento v.
Drew (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1287, 1303.) Plaintiff was ultimately successful
in this case. The Court is not going to sift through every entry of Plaintiff’s
to determine if they were absolutely necessary for this case. Accordingly, the
Court will not reduce Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees on the basis that
some work may or may not have been overzealous.
 
Finally,
Defendants argue that the Court should apply Local Rule 3.214(a) and reduce
Plaintiff’s award fees based on the Court’s attorney fees schedule. Defendant
argues that this means that under that rule, the attorney fees in this case
would amount to an award of $5,270.73 plus $7,441.92 ($5,270.73 + 2% of
$472,096), for a total of $12,711.92. Defendants argue that this is appropriate,
or this amount with a multiplier of 2 or 3 times, because the case was of
medium complexity and the bench trial lasted 5 days with seven witnesses.
 
Plaintiff
argues that it is not appropriate to use Local Rule 3.214(a) in this case
because that rule sets a calculation for an award of attorney fees in contract
matters, “unless otherwise determined by the Court.” The Court may determine a
reasonable amount of attorney fees under Civ. Code § 1717. (See Korech v.
Hornwood (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1423; see also, Cruz v. Ayromloo (2007)
155 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1275-1276.) The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s reasoning
and will determine a reasonable amount of attorney fees based upon Plaintiff’s
request.
 
Based on the
invoices that his attorney provided, Plaintiff has now provided sufficient
description of the work performed. The Court is able to determine whether the
requested amount is reasonable based on the attorney fees requested by
Plaintiff. The Court finds that the invoices provided by Plaintiff support the
$181,300 in attorney fees that he has requested at the end of his supplemental
reply.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for attorney fees is granted in the request amount of $181,300.
Defendants are ordered to pay this amount to Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
Moving party to
give notice.