  Case Number:  21STCV47525    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERALD WACHEL, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TY
   LABBE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV47525
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF GERALD WACHEL’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
   FROM DEFENDANT TY LABBE TO FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
   DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   25, 2024




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff
Gerald Wachel (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendant Ty Labbe
(“Defendant”) to serve further responses to his First Set of Requests for
Production and to produce all non-privileged responsive documents. Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and counsel of record for
$4,260. 
          In response
to each of Plaintiff’s document requests, Defendant objects on the grounds that
they are “overbroad” and “vague.” Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s “vague and ambiguous”
objection lacks merit, while Defendant states in his opposition brief that he
is willing to omit them and serve a supplemental response if Plaintiff
acknowledges that Defendant has already provided all responsive nonprivileged documents.

On reply, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has not provided all responsive nonprivileged documents and lists
several documents that Defendant identified at his deposition which were not
produced, including: (1) email communications between Defendant and Deputy
District Attorney Cesar Rodriguez, (2) a release prepared by Defendant that
Defendant attempted to convince Plaintiff and his wife to sign, and (3) a
report about the incident that Defendant provided to the victim coordinator at
the District Attorney’s office. 
Defendant’s deposition was taken on
December 20, 2023, and it does not appear that the parties have been able to
meet and confer about these specific documents yet. However, these documents
are clearly responsive to several of the document requests including, but not
limited to, RFP Nos. 1, 3, 7, 9, 10, 12, and 14. Additionally, Defendant’s
“vague and ambiguous” objections lack merit in this context, which involves a
dispute between neighbors. The universe of documents relevant to this action is
not so large and the document requests are not so abstract that Defendant is
unable to determine which documents are responsive. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel a further response is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to withdraw its
objections to the requests on the grounds that they are vague or ambiguous and produce
all nonprivileged responsive documents in its possession, custody, and control.
The parties shall meet and confer with respect to the documents identified in
Plaintiff’s reply brief and, if such documents are in Defendant’s possession,
custody, and control, they will be produced. 
Because Plaintiff did not identify any
missing documents until after this motion was filed, Defendant opposed this
motion with substantial justification. Therefore, the request for sanctions is
DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 25th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 