 Case Number:  23GDCV02249    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 10Date: 9/20/2024Case No: 23GDCV02249 Trial Date:  Not SetCase Name: Samvel Khachatryan v. Dory Cabinta MacatlangMOTION FOR RECLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO LIMITED JURISDICTIONMoving Party: Defendant Dory Cabinta MacatlangResponding Party: Plaintiff Samvel KhachatryanRELIEF REQUESTED: Order reclassifying the subject matter to a limited jurisdiction. CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Motor vehicle negligence2) NegligenceSUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Samvel Khachatryan alleges that on November 15, 2021 on the 5 freeway northbound near the Western Avenue exit in Glendale, defendant Dory Cabinta Macatlang negligently operated and owned a motor vehicle. Plaintiff alleges that traffic suddenly came to a stop and plaintiff’s vehicle was rear-ended by defendant, and that as a result of the impact plaintiff sustained bodily injuries and property damage. Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff has suffered wage loss, loss of use of property, hospital and medical expenses, general damage, property damage and loss of earnings capacity. No damages sum is alleged in the complaint. There is no statement of damages in the file. On July 19, 2024, this matter came on for hearing, but no party appeared. The court’s tentative indicated the motion would be granted and noted that Plaintiff had not filed an opposition. On July 26, 2024, the matter was continued to September 20, 2024 by nunc pro tunc order. The court indicated that pleadings are to be filed pursuant to statute. Plaintiff filed an opposition to this motion to reclassify on August 16, 2024.ANALYSIS:Defendant seeks relief under CCP § 403.040(b), which provides, in pertinent part:“If a party files a motion for reclassification after the time for that party to ...respond to a complaint, ... the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:(1) The case is incorrectly classified.(2) The moving party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.” The California Supreme Court in construing when a case could be transferred to a municipal court under previous CCP § 396 held that a matter could be transferred when it would “necessarily” result in a verdict below the jurisdictional amount. (Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262.) The Court stated that this standard “requires a high level of certainty that a damage award will not exceed $25,000 and is not satisfied by a finding that such an award is merely ‘unlikely’ or ‘not reasonably probable’.” (Walker, at 269.)Walker authorizes the trial court to conduct a pretrial hearing to obtain information about whether the amount of a judgment to be rendered will justify reclassification. (See Walker, at 268; Stern v. Superior Court (2003 2nd Dist.) 105 Cal.App.4th 223, 231.)The appellate court reviews a reclassification order “according to an abuse of discretion standard, i.e., whether the court made an informed decision within its discretion or whether the order exceeded the bounds of reason.” (Stern at 231; citing Walker at 272.)As an initial matter, Defendant here argues that this matter should be reclassified to a limited jurisdiction matter, as discovery has shown that the amount in controversy does not exceed $35,000. This argument is based on the current version of CCP section 86(a)(1), which provides:“(a) The following civil cases and proceedings are limited civil cases:(1) A case at law if the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value of the property in controversy amounts to thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) or less.” The statute was revised effective January 1, 2024 to increase the jurisdictional minimum from $25,000 to $35,000. This case was filed on October 24, 2023. Case law interpreting former versions of jurisdictional statutes when the limits were adjusted has held that where there is a statutory change of jurisdiction of a court and no clearly expressed intention to the contrary, the amended statute will be held to operate prospectively rather than retrospectively. (Dillon v. Superior Court in and for Los Angeles County (1950, 2nd Dist.) 98 Cal.App.2d 437, 439.) The statute here does not include any express language indicating that the new jurisdictional minimum was intended to apply retroactively, as opposed to prospectively, that is, for cases filed on or after January 1, 2024. Thus, the court applies the $25,000 minimum, as opposed to the $35,000 as urged in the moving papers.Defendant here argues that according to plaintiff’s own representations the total amount of plaintiff’s special damages for the medical treatment he received is $5,190, and the estimate for the property damage to his vehicle is $6,817.36. Defendant relies on plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, in which plaintiff indicates that the medical treatment received consisted of consultation and treatment with a medical doctor, costing $4,790, and x-rays costing $400, with no medication prescribed. (Ex. A, Responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 6.4, 6.5.) When asked if there are any other medical services necessitated by the injuries, plaintiff responded, “No.” (Ex. A, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.6.)Plaintiff’s responses also indicate that a written estimate for property loss is $6,817.36 (Repair Estimate, Exh. B), and that plaintiff does not attribute any loss of income or earning capacity to the incident, or other damages. (Ex. A, Responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 7.2, 8.1, 9.1.)Plaintiff filed an opposition, however, Plaintiff failed to file proof of service indicating he served Defendant with the opposition. Defendant has not filed a reply to indicate she has received notice of the opposition, but the court assumes defendant’s attorney received the opposition because no statement of non-opposition is filed.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he may require additional treatment (Zakaryan Decl., Exh. A), and he claims pain and suffering. (Id., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff also argues that his vehicle was a total loss and was valued at $11,270. Further, Plaintiff argues that his economic damages are not known yet because Medicare has not given any details as to the final lien. (Id., ¶ 7.)Indeed, Plaintiff’s discovery responses that were submitted by Defendant in connection with this motion, provide support for most of Plaintiff’s arguments in opposition. Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 6.3 indicates that Plaintiff suffers from constant pain, which indicates he is making a claim for general damages. (Defendant’s Ex. A, Response to Form Interrogatories 6.3.) Further, Response to Form Interrogatory 6.7 indicates that Plaintiff’s health care provider advised that he may require future or additional treatment. (Defendant’s Ex. A, Response to Form Interrogatories 6.7.) But, the court notes that Plaintiff offers no evidence whatsoever for his argument that the vehicle was valued at $11,270.In any event, the court can transfer an action to limited jurisdiction if “it becomes clear that the matter will ‘necessarily’ result in a verdict below the superior court jurisdictional amount.” (Walker at 262.)“‘This standard requiresa high level of certaintythat a damage award will not exceed $25,000 and is not satisfied by a finding that such an award is merely 'unlikely' or 'not reasonably probable.' " (Id. at 269, italics added.) As Plaintiff may require future treatment, and has a claim for pain and suffering, it does not appear to a high level of certainty that Plaintiff cannot recover more than the jurisdictional amount, especially considering that Plaintiff has a claim for general damages, which are not subject to precise measurement, and thus, the possibility exists that Plaintiff’s total damages could exceed the jurisdictional limit. (Singer v. Superior Court (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1315, 1320.)RULING: Based on the foregoing, the motion to reclassify is DENIED.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES 