  Case Number:  24STCV08187    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  73 08/16/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CARREON v. CS LEGACY CONSTRUCTION,
INC., et al. (24STCV08187)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Heather
Conniff (Shegerian Conniff LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Stephen Andranian (Vogt Resnick Sherak LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ motion to compel arbitration (filed 05/31/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff Odilon Garcia Carreon
filed this employment action against Defendants CS Legacy Construction, Inc.
and Ramon Preciado. 
 
Plaintiff brings the following eleven (11) causes
of action against Defendants: (1) discrimination based on disability in
violation of the FEHA; (2) harassment based on disability in violation of the
FEHA; (3) retaliation
in violation of the FEHA; (4)
discrimination based on age in violation of the FEHA; (5) failure to provide
reasonable accommodation in violation of the FEHA; (6) failure to engage in
interactive process in violation of the FEHA; (7) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (8) violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5; (9) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (10)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (10) failure to provide meal
and rest breaks.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. In February 2004, Plaintiff began working for CS
Legacy Construction, Inc. (“Legacy”) which is a construction company for
different city projects for schools, businesses, public roads and streets. (Compl., ¶ 7.) In late 2020, Plaintiff was the
superintendent on a project involving fixing a road in the City of Santa Ana. (Compl.,
¶ 9.) Preciado was Plaintiff’s supervisor. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges
that Preciado did not allow Plaintiff to hire extra help and demanded Plaintiff
to complete the project at an unsafe pace. (Ibid.) On October 31, 2022,
Plaintiff was injured at work and reported his injury to Preciado. (Ibid.)
On November 1, 2022, Plaintiff was terminated. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
alleges that his termination was directly connected to his work-related injury
and his age. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also alleges he made good-faith
complaints of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. (Compl., ¶ 8.)
 
On
May 31, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
arguing:
·        
Plaintiff was, at all times relevant to his employment claims, a
member of The International Union of Operating Engineers, Local No. 12
("Union”), and as such, expressly authorized the Union to negotiate for,
and enter into, a binding employment agreement with Legacy, called the Master
Labor Agreement.
o  
The Agreement contains a detailed dispute resolution process which
binds the parties — including Plaintiff — and includes a provision authorizing
either party to a dispute, whether it be employee or employer, to arbitrate.
·        
There are two separate agreements that require that the instant
dispute be arbitrated: The Union's Master Labor Agreement (the "Union
Agreement") and the Project Agreement
·        
The Court should compel
Plaintiff to attend arbitration. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·        
Defendants
waived their right to compel arbitration by engaging in litigation. Here,
Defendants have engaged in discovery. 
·        
Defendant’s Arbitration Agreement Is Unenforceable
Because The Union Agreement Does Not “Clearly and Unmistakably” Waive
Plaintiff’s Judicial Rights, Nor Does It Explicitly Provide for Full Litigation
and Fair Adjudication of Claims.
o   Here,
the Union Agreement, does not specifically state that Plaintiff is waiving his
rights to a judicial forum or that his statutory claims are subject to
arbitration. In fact, the Union Agreement specifically states that a dispute or
grievance “may” be referred to arbitration.
 
 In reply, Defendants argue:
·        
Defendants
did not waive its right to arbitrate. Plaintiff does not show any prejudice or
that the merits of the case have actually been litigated.
·        
The Union Agreement clearly states that "any
dispute or grievance may be referred to arbitration by either or both
parties." Certainly, parties always have the right to waive their right to
enforce an arbitration provision, even if the language in a contract absolutely
requires it. The Project Agreement includes a detailed dispute resolution
provision.
·        
Defendants have met their burden of proof in the
instant Motion to show that there exists two agreements that contain
arbitration agreements that cover the dispute which is at issue in this case.
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the arbitration provisions in the
subject agreements, but attempts to argue that somehow the clauses are
"vague" insofar as they do not spell out the arbitration process.
Plaintiff has not proven by a preponderance of evidence that this is the case,
nor has he shown that there exist grounds from revocation of the agreements.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and 
irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
B.      Waiver of
Arbitration
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion arguing that Defendants waived
their right to compel arbitration by engaging in litigation. 
 
“Because arbitration is a highly favored means of settling
such disputes, the courts have been admonished to ‘closely scrutinize any
allegation of waiver of such favored right’ [Citations], and to ‘indulge every
intendment to give effect to such proceedings’ [Citations.]”¿ (Doers v.
Golden Gate Bridge etc. Dist. (1979) 23 Cal. 3d 180, 189.) “No single test
defines the conduct that will constitute waiver of an arbitration right.¿
Rather, courts look to several factors to determine whether waiver has occurred.¿
[Citation.]¿ In St. Agnes, the Supreme Court confirmed that a court may
consider the following six factors in assessing a waiver claim: ‘‘‘(1) whether
the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether
‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were
well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing
party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of proceedings; (5) ‘whether important
intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available
in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled,
or prejudiced’ the opposing party.’’¿ [Citation.]’¿ [Citations.]”¿ (Oregel
v. PacPizza, LLC (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 342, 354–355.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that the litigation process has been
underway because Defendants engaged in discovery. Thus, Plaintiff argues
Defendants waived their right to compel arbitration. According to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration, Plaintiff and Defendants both propounded and responded
to discovery over the course of a couple months. (Desisto Decl., ¶¶ 3-9.)
Plaintiff cites to Semprini v. Wedbush Securities Inc., (2024) 101 Cal.
App. 5th 518, 519-520 in support. In Semprini, the court denied the
employer's motion to compel arbitration finding that the employer waived its
right to arbitrate by unreasonably delaying its motion to compel while engaging
in conduct inconsistent with intent to compel arbitration, including motion practice
and discovery. (Id. at 529-530.)
 
However, the Court notes that in Semprini, the court stated
that the employer waited nine months to file its motion to compel arbitration.
Thus, the nine-month delay, coupled with the employer’s other conduct
inconsistent with an intent to compel arbitration, resulted in a waiver.
 
Here, the Court cannot find that Defendants unreasonably
delayed for a long time before notifying Plaintiff of their intent to
arbitrate. Plaintiff filed his Complaint on April 2, 2024. Defendants filed the
instant Motion to Compel Arbitration within two months, on May 31, 2024. Further,
Defendants assert that in letters to Plaintiff’s counsel dated February 5, 2024
and March 10, 2024, Defendants indicated they intended to enforce any
arbitration agreement that existed between the parties. (Andranian Decl., Exs.
B-C.) Unlike the nine-month delay in Semprini, the Court here does not
find there was an unreasonable delay. Further, the Court notes that besides engaging
in some discovery, there have not been substantive procedural developments,
motion practice or proceedings in this matter.
 
The Court also finds Plaintiff has failed to show he has been
prejudiced. “Prejudice is typically found only where the petitioning party’s
conduct has substantially undermined this important public policy or
substantially impaired the other side’s ability to take advantage of the
benefits and efficiencies of arbitration. For example, courts have found
prejudice where the petitioning party used the judicial discovery processes to
gain information about the other side’s case that could not have been gained in
arbitration; where a party unduly delayed and waited until the eve of trial to
seek arbitration; or where the lengthy nature of the delays associated with the
petitioning party’s attempts to litigate resulted in lost evidence.” (Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 378 quoting St.
Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 1204.) In Plaintiff’s opposition, he
does not argue he has been prejudiced. Plaintiff does not argue, for example,
that Defendants unduly delayed until the eve of trial to seek arbitration nor
that any delays resulted in lost evidence. Thus, the Court does not find Plaintiff
has been prejudiced.  
 
In sum, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to show
Defendants’ conduct as a whole has been inconsistent with a desire to
arbitrate. Thus, Defendants have not waived their right to compel arbitration.
 
C.      Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Defendants
move to compel arbitration based on two written arbitration agreements. 
 
Defendants
assert that at all relevant times, Plaintiff was a member of the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local No.
12 (the “Union”) and Plaintiffs employer, Defendant Legacy was a party to a collective
bargaining agreement (the “Master Labor Agreement”). (Andranian Decl., Ex. G.) Defendants also assert that Plaintiff was a
party to the City of Santa Ana Community Workforce Agreement (the “Project
Agreement”) which also includes a dispute resolution provision. (Strumpf Decl.,
Ex. L.)
 
The Master
Labor Agreement states, in relevant part, that:
 
“Purpose -
...The Union and the Contractors, by this Agreement, intend to establish
uniform rates of pay, hours of employment and working conditions for the
employees covered by this Agreement. The Union and the Contractors further
intend by this Agreement to provide, establish and put into practice an
effective method for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes and
grievances.
 
In the event
the Labor-Management Adjustment Board does not reach a decision for reasons of
its own, any dispute or grievance may be referred to arbitration by either
or both parties, and the cost of arbitration will be borne totally by the
losing party....” [emphasis added]
 
(Andranian Decl., Ex. G, pp. 2, 44.)
 
The Project Agreement
states, in relevant part, that:
 
“If the
grievance shall have been submitted but not resolved under Step 2, either
the Union of Contractor Party may request in writing…that the grievance be
submitted to an arbitrator selected from the agreed upon list in Attachment
(D) attached hereto, on a rotational basis in the order listed. The CWA
Administrator shall notify the parties to the grievance of the date, time and
location or the hearing. The failure of any party to attend said hearing shall
not delay the hearing of evidence or the issuance or any decision by the arbitrator.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties.
Should any party seek confirmation of the award made by the arbitrator, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to receive its reasonable attorney fees and
costs.” [emphasis added]
 
(Strumpf Decl., Ex. L, p. 24.)
 
Plaintiff
argues the arbitration agreements are unenforceable because they do not
specifically state that
Plaintiff is waiving his rights to a judicial forum or that his statutory
claims are subject to arbitration. Plaintiff asserts the agreements
specifically state that a dispute or grievance “may” be referred to
arbitration.
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that the arbitration agreements do
not “clearly and unmistakably” require union members to arbitrate their
statutory claims. (Volpei v. County of Ventura (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
391, 395.) 
“A union
representative may agree on an employee's behalf as part of the collective
bargaining process to require the employee to arbitrate controversies relating
to an interpretation or enforcement of a CBA. ([citation] [“ ‘arbitration of
labor disputes under collective bargaining agreements is part and parcel of the
collective bargaining process itself’ ”];¿[citation].) In fact, when a CBA
includes an¿arbitration provision, contractual matters under a CBA are presumed
arbitrable; that is, arbitration must be granted as long as the CBA is
reasonably susceptible to an interpretation in favor of arbitration.
[Citation.]” (Cortez v. Doty Bros. Equipment Co.¿(2017) 15 Cal.App.5th
1, 11–12.) 
However, in a
case involving alleged statutory violations, “[i]n order for a [judicial forum]
waiver to be valid, therefore, a CBA must “contain a clear and unmistakable
waiver of the covered employees’ rights to a judicial forum” relating to the
statutory claims alleged in the complaint. [Citation.]” (Vasserman v. Henry
Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital¿(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 236, 245.) “[I]n
determining whether there has been a sufficiently explicit waiver, courts look
to the generality of the arbitration clause, explicit incorporation of
statutory requirements, and the inclusion of specific contractual provisions.
[Citation.] “The test is whether a collective bargaining agreement makes
compliance with the statute a contractual commitment subject to the arbitration
clause.” [Citation.]” (Id. at 246.) “[A] “waiver in a collective
bargaining agreement is sufficiently clear if it is found in an explicit
arbitration clause. ‘Under this approach, the [collective bargaining agreement]
must contain a clear and unmistakable provision under which the employees agree
to submit to¿arbitration all [state and federal statutory] causes of action
arising out of their employment.’ [Citation.]” [Citation.]” (Id. at
246-247.) 
For example,
in Volpei v.
County of Ventura (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 391, 395, the court stated that language of an arbitration
provision employing the use of “shall” or “sole and exclusive remedy” and
explicitly references the statutes at issue, “clearly and unmistakably”
requires union members to arbitrate their statutory claims. The court found the
arbitration agreement at issue in Volpei was permissive because the
provision that unresolved grievances “may be submitted to arbitration by the
Association” does not clearly and unmistakably require an employee to submit a
grievance to arbitration as the “sole and exclusive remedy” for a statutory
violation. (Ibid.)
 
Similar to the arbitration provision in Volpei,
the arbitration provisions here specifically state that a dispute or grievance
“may” be referred to arbitration. Defendants do not cite to any authority
holding that a provision similar to the one here requires an employee with a
statutory grievance to submit to arbitration. Thus, the Court finds the word “may”
does not create a clear and unmistakable waiver.
 
Therefore, Defendants have not met their burden of showing that a
valid agreement to arbitrate exists between the Parties.
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration
 
D.    
Conclusion
 

The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration