  Case Number:  21STCV42411    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Lois Meehan’s Motion for
Attorney Fees
Plaintiff Lois Meehan moves for $234,190
in attorney fees under Civil Code section 5975, subdivision (c).  Section 5975 of the Davis-Stirling Common
Interest Development Act provides:
(a) The
covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable
servitudes, unless unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all
owners of separate interests in the development.  Unless the declaration states otherwise, these
servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest or by the
association, or by both.
(b) A
governing document other than the declaration may be enforced by the
association against an owner of a separate interest or by an owner of a
separate interest against the association.
(c) In
an action to enforce the governing documents, the prevailing party shall
be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.  (Italics added.)
Plaintiff cannot recover attorney
fees from defendants because this was not an action to “enforce” the governing
documents under Civil Code section 5975, subdivision (c).  Courts consider “the substance of the claims
asserted and relief sought, in determining whether an action is one ‘to enforce
the governing documents’ in the meaning of section 5975.”  (Rancho Mirage Country Club Homeowners
Assn. v. Hazelbaker (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 252, 260.)  Plaintiff’s second amended complaint asserted
two causes of action: (1) trespass and (2) nuisance based on violations of the
City of Malibu’s Health and Safety Code. 
Plaintiff sought damages for the torts and an injunction prohibiting
defendants from certain uses of plaintiff’s property.  This action brought only tort claims based on
real property rights held by every property owner.      
In arguing this was an action to
enforce the governing documents, plaintiff relies on section 1 of the
CC&Rs: “Section 1. Road Ingress and Egress. Each real property owner and
road user shall have, and there is hereby granted to each such real property
owner and road user, for his and/or her use and the use of his and/or her
invitees (as defined below), in common with all others entitled to use the
same, non-exclusive easements on, over, and across the Private Roads for the
ingress and egress of vehicles, for the passage and accommodation of
pedestrians and for the ingress and egress of construction, repair, service and
maintenance vehicles and/or equipment.  The
forgoing grant is limited to the non-exclusive use of the surface area of the
Private Roads.”  (Statement of Decision,
p. 5.)  
Plaintiff’s action did not seek to
enforce that provision of the governing documents, nor any other provision. She
did not claim any rights under the easement set forth in section 1.  Instead, plaintiff asserted trespass and
nuisance actions pursuant to rights she had as a property owner separate and
apart from the easement. 
It is true that the CC&Rs gave defendants
certain rights over plaintiff’s property. 
If defendants brought an action or cross-complaint alleging plaintiff
interfered with their easement for ingress and egress, that might constitute an
action to enforce the CC&Rs.  In this
case, however, the easement in the CC&Rs at most could have served as a
defense to plaintiff’s trespass claim. 
That does not permit plaintiff to recover attorney fees.  “Narrow statutory language limited to ‘actions
to enforce’ does not authorize attorney fee awards where the statute is used
defensively.”  (Gil v. Mansano
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 739, 745 [using predecessor to Civ. Code, § 5975, subd.
(b) as an example]; accord Mountain Air Enterprises, LLC v. Sundowner
Towers, LLC (2017) 3 Cal.5th 744, 753 [While an affirmative defense is part
of an “action,” “it does not, in and of itself, constitute an ‘action’ for
purposes of recovering attorney fees”]; Excess Electronixx v. Heger Realty
Corp. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 698, 712 [“we cannot equate raising a
[‘defense’ with bringing an ‘action’ or ‘proceeding’ ” for purposes of attorney
fees].) 
Plaintiff argues the “gravamen” of
her action “was to enforce the strict limitations of the easement rights set
forth in the CC&Rs.”  (Mot., p. 3.)  The court is unpersuaded.  Plaintiff’s rights did not derive from the
CC&Rs.  They pre-existed the
CC&Rs and will continue even if the CC&Rs are revoked or the easement
contained in the CC&Rs is abolished. 

            When
interpreting a statute, courts should avoid, if possible, rendering any part or
word superfluous.  (People v. Lopez (2022)
76 Cal.App.5th 287, 292.) Plaintiff’s interpretation of the statute would
effectively render the word “enforce” superfluous.
Plaintiff Lois Meehan’s motion for attorney
fees is denied.  Plaintiff Lois
Meehan shall recover no attorney fees from any defendant.