 Case Number:  24VECV00579    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV00579
FRANDSEN V FOXMAN
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiffs Russell and Christie Frandsen’s Amended Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
Plaintiffs
Russell and Christie Frandsen’s Request for Judicial Notice filed August 7,
2024 is GRANTED but only as to the existence of the Court’s Order and not as to
any hearsay or facts in dispute or facts asserted in the Court’s Order.
Introduction
Plaintiffs
Russell and Christie Frandsen (collectively, Plaintiffs) moved for judgment on
the pleadings on their Complaint and Defendants Alex Foxman and Michal Janel
Morey Foxman’s (collectively, Defendants) Answer.  Plaintiffs filed the
Amended Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (Amended Motion) on August 13,
2024.  Co-Plaintiffs Andre Berger and Tracy Berger are not moving parties
on the motion. 
Defendants’
opposition was due August 23, 2024 and none was filed.
Procedure
At the
August 28, 2024 ex parte hearing, Defendants submitted that possession is no
longer at issue because they vacated the property.  Defendants consented
to entry of judgment for possession only.  To the extent the instant
Amended Motion seeks judgment on the pleadings as to the possession issue, the
Amended Motion is MOOT.
The
remaining issue in the action is for back rent owed from February 7, 2024 at
the alleged daily rent of $300.00 per day.  (Compl. par. 10; Prayer par.
2.)  The Court reviewed the Amended Motion solely as to the issue of
damages and whether judgment on the pleadings on the issue of damages is
sufficiently argued.
On July 16,
2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ prior motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  Plaintiffs argued that they presented a valid cause of action
for unlawful detainer in the Complaint and Defendants failed to properly deny
the claims in their Answer.  Specifically, Plaintiffs argued Defendants
admitted to the allegations made in the Verified Complaint, paragraphs 1-6 and
9, and failed to properly deny the allegations made in the Verified Complaint,
paragraphs 7, 8, 10, and 11.  In the instant Amended Motion filed on
August 13, 2024, Plaintiffs re-asserted this same argument.  Because
Plaintiffs are again asserting the same arguments from the July 16, 2024
hearing, the instant motion is an improperly filed Renewal Motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 1008(b).)  Plaintiffs failed to comply with the Renewal
Motion statute by failing to present new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, at least, as to the arguments relying upon the allegations in the
Complaint and Answer.  The motion also failed to attach an affidavit
attesting to “what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown”.  (Id.)  For these defects, there are
grounds to deny the motion. 
Grounds to
deny the motion also exist because the Court previously reviewed the merits of similar arguments and denied the requested relief in the prior motion for
judgment on the pleadings. 
It is
further noted that the instant motion could have been considered as a Motion
for Reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure, section 1008(a).  For
the above same procedural defects regarding the failure to present new or
different facts, circumstances, or law and failure to submit a supporting
declaration, there is grounds to deny the motion if considered a motion for
reconsideration.
Discussion
Plaintiffs
then argued that judgment on the pleadings should be entered in their favor
because of an August 6, 2024, “Court Order – Summary of Judgment After Trial”
entered after trial in the case, Andre Berger, Tracy Berger, Russell M.
Frandsen, Christie Frandsen, and National ACO, LLC v. Alex Foxman, Michal Morey
Foxman, Ilana Mikhlin, Richard Fox, Alex Foxman, MD, Inc., Med Institute, Inc.
(Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, August 21, 2024, No. 19STCV00723) (hereinafter
referred to as, 2019 Case).  (Request for Judicial Notice filed August 7,
2024, Exh. 1.)  Preliminarily, the Court notes that Plaintiffs misconstrue
the alleged denial in Defendants’ Answer filed in the instant action. 
Defendants’ Answer expressly alleges that Defendants deny the allegations in
Complaint paragraphs “7, 8, 120 [sic] and 11 based upon the facts alleged in
the Proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint [sic] in Foxman v Frandsen et al,
LASC Case No. 23STCV19020, related to 19STCV00723 and 20STCP02611, a copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein in tis entirety
by reference.”  (Defendants’ Answer, pg. 1:24-27.)  As expressly
alleged, Defendants’ denial is only based upon facts alleged in a specific
pleading in a specific action (i.e., Proposed Second Amended
Cross-Complaint  in LASC Case No. 23STCV19020 (hereinafter referred to as,
2023 Case)). The Court noted that the parties in LASC Case no. 23STCV19020
never filed any Cross-Complaint, let alone a Proposed Second Amended
Cross-Complaint.  However, it is seen that Defendants’ Answer in the
instant action attached a Verified Second Amended Complaint filed in
23STCV19020.  As such, the Court presumes that Defendants’ reference to a
Proposed Second Amended Cross-Complaint in the instant action’s Answer is a
typographical error and Defendants meant to allege “Second Amended
Complaint.”  Nothing in the denial shows that Defendants’ Answer and
denial in the instant action relied upon facts alleged in any pleading filed in
the 2019 Case.  Plaintiffs’ reliance upon the Order entered by the Court
in the 2019 Case is misplaced. 
Defendants’
denial in the Answer only referenced the 2019 Case as being a related
case.  Defendants’ denial does not allege that their denial is grounded on
any facts alleged in the 2019 Case.  Plaintiffs appear to misconstrue
related cases.  The reference in the Answer of “related cases” is to show
that the 2019 Case is being heard by the same judge hearing the 2023
Case.  A ruling on the facts/claims in 2019 Case is not shown to affect
the facts/claims alleged in the 2023 Case, as of yet. 
Plaintiffs’
arguments on the motion relying upon the Court Order in the 2019 Case
misconstrued Defendants’ Answer/Denial and is thus unpersuasive.
It is
further noted that the Court Order in the 2019 Case is not a Judgment but
merely an Order of the Court.  To afford the Court’s Order binding or
precedential effect to the issue of back rent in the instant action would be
improper since Judge Steve Cochran at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse is not an
appellate level court. 
Plaintiffs’
motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.