 Case Number:  23VECV05774    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV05774
WHITAKER V DALDALYAN
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant PA Rehearsal Studios, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is DENIED.
 
Defendant
PA Rehearsal Studios, Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to
Exhibits 1-3 and 5 but only as to their existence not as to any hearsay or
facts in dispute or asserted therein; DENIED as to Exhibit 4; and GRANTED as to
Exhibit 6.
 
Introduction
 
Defendant
PA Rehearsal Studios, Inc. (Defendant) moved for judgment on the pleadings
against Plaintiff Brian Whitaker’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The Complaint
alleged two causes of action (COA):  1) violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act and 2) violation of Disabled Persons Act.
 
Defendant’s
reply was due August 29, 2024 and none was filed.
 
Procedure
 
Defendant
failed to submit a declaration showing that Defendant met and conferred with
Plaintiff prior to the filing of the instant motion.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 439.)  The declaration of Vernon Nelson made no reference to any
attempt to meet and confer.  For this defect, there is good cause to deny
the motion.  Counsel is REQUIRED to do so before such motions.
 
Despite the
failure to submit a declaration showing compliance with the meet and confer
requirement, the Court reviewed the substance of the motion.  The court
notes the lack of merit to this motion and questions why it was filed. 
 
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice (RJN) of the Complaint in People of California v.
Potter Handy LLP et al (Super. Ct San Francisco, pending, No. CGC-22-599079)
(RJN Exh. 4) is DENIED because it is not relevant to the allegations in this
Complaint.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
argued that Plaintiff lacked standing to bring the instant motion because
Plaintiff failed to allege facts showing that he experienced any difficulty,
discomfort, or embarrassment; and because Defendant does not have a bona fide
intent to use Defendant’s services.  A motion for judgment on the
pleadings, like a demurrer, tests whether a COA is sufficiently alleged. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 438(d).)  The rules governing demurrers
apply.  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)  
The demurrer admits the truth of all material factual allegations properly
pleaded. (290 Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022)
86 Cal.App.5th 439, 452.) 
 
As to
whether Plaintiff sufficiently pleaded whether he had a bona fide intent to use
or will continue to use Defendant’s services, Plaintiff expressly alleged that
he had the intention to avail himself of Defendant’s services.  (Compl.
pars. 10 and 30.)  To argue otherwise is a dispute against the veracity of
the allegation and improper for a motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged an intent to use Defendant’s services. 
Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive at this pleading stage.
 
Defendant
argued that Plaintiff did not have an intent to use their services because
Plaintiff admits to being a “tester” per Code of Civil Procedure, section
425.50 (Compl. pars. 26-31) and  because of Plaintiff’s admitted
litigation history in filing many similar lawsuits against others (Compl. par.
28).  However, the allegations as to Plaintiff being a tester and the
number of lawsuits he’s filed was a pleading requirement under Code of Civil
procedure, sections 425.50(a)(4)(A) and (B) and 425.55(b).  The mere fact
that Plaintiff is a “high frequency litigant,” in and of itself, is
insufficient to imply that Plaintiff lacked any intent to use Defendant’s
services.  Defendant’s argument is an assumption and unsupported by facts
found in the four corners of the pleading or facts judicially noticeable. 
The argument is unpersuasive at this pleading stage.
 
As to the
allegation on whether Plaintiff experienced any difficulty, discomfort, or
embarrassment, Plaintiff expressly alleged that he was not able to conduct the
transaction without difficulty.  (Compl. par. 15.)  The facts to
support the claim can be inferred from the allegation that Plaintiff is a
quadriplegic and uses a wheelchair for mobility and that Defendant lacked an
accessible parking space and lacked a counter at 36 inches or less in height.
(Compl. par. 1 and 13.)  These allegations provide facts to infer that
Plaintiff experienced difficulty in getting out of his vehicle and experienced
difficulty in signing any forms or tendering money for the rehearsal
space.  Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive at this pleading stage.
 
The
allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint are sufficient to allege standing because
Plaintiff alleged that he is a person with a disability (i.e., use of a
wheelchair for mobility) and was denied access to Defendant’s services. 
Defendant’s arguments are not persuasive.
 
The motion
for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.