 Case Number:  24VECV01018    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV01018
Nazeri v Logrinsky
 
Tentative
ruling: 
 
Hearing on
Motion to Compel plaintiff's responses to specially prepared interrogatories;
Request for sanctions
 
Hearing on
Motion to Compel plaintiff's responses to demand for identification and
inspection of documents; request for sanctions
 
Hearing on
Motion to Compel plaintiff's responses to form interrogatories; Request for
sanctions
 
The court
emailed counsel on 8/9/2024 and directed both sides to have a telephonic or
video meet and confer about the defendants’ motions to compel discovery and
attempt to resolve the matter without the court’s involvement.
 
No
declarations were filed by anyone concerning the additional meet and
confer.  In fact, there is nothing to indicate that the meet and confer
took place.  The court does not understand why a phone call was not made
to plaintiff’s counsel to discuss the matter. 
 
If the meet
and confer did not take place, then the court will continue.
 
ASSUMING
THAT GOOD FAITH MEET AND CONFER TOOK PLACE:
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant Maya Logrinsky’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Laura Nazeri is ORDERED to serve
verified responses without objections within 20 days.  Defendant Maya
Logrinsky’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED against Plaintiff Laura
Nazeri and her Counsel in the amount of $572.00.
 
Defendant
Maya Logrinsky’s Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff Laura Nazeri is ORDERED to serve verified responses
without objections within 20 days.  Defendant Maya Logrinsky’s request for
monetary sanctions is GRANTED against Plaintiff Laura Nazeri and her Counsel in
the amount of $572.00.
 
Defendant
Maya Logrinsky’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of
Documents is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Laura Nazeri is ORDERED to serve verified
responses without objections within 20 days.  Defendant Maya Logrinsky’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED against Plaintiff Laura Nazeri and
her Counsel in the amount of $572.00.
 
Introduction
 
Defendant
Maya Logrinsky (Defendant) filed separate motions to compel initial responses
to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of
documents against Plaintiff Laura Nazeri (Plaintiff).  Each motion also
requested monetary sanctions of $572.00 from Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
Counsel.  Plaintiff’s opposition was due August 23, 2024 and none was
filed.
 
Discussion
 
A party
that has not received timely responses to written interrogatories and requests
for production is entitled to an order compelling responses without
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc. secs. 2030.290 and 2031.300.)  A motion
to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and
conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate
statement.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.)  Defendant served the three
discovery demands upon Plaintiff on April 17, 2024.  (Pritesh Kothary
(Kothary) Decl. par. 2, Exh. A.)  Despite a meet and confer letter
requesting responses, Plaintiff failed to respond.  (Kothary Decl. pars.
3-4, Exh. B.)  Because responses have not been served, Defendant met their
burden to support their request for an order requiring Plaintiff to respond
without objections.
 
Defendant’s
three motions are GRANTED. 
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure secs. 2030.290(c) and 2031.300(c), sanctions shall be
imposed unless the Court finds that the responding party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of a sanction
unjust.  Without any oppositions, Plaintiff failed to show substantial
justification or circumstances making sanctions unjust.  The Court finds
Defendant’s request for $572.00 made in each motion to be reasonable. 
 
Defendant’s
request for $572.00 against Plaintiff and Counsel made in each motion is
GRANTED.
 
Monetary
sanctions are payable, jointly and severally, by plaintiff and her counsel, to
the client trust account of moving party's counsel by 10/6/2024.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.