  Case Number:  21STCV17425    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
DAVID
  CROCKETT, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV17425




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PK3C,
  LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 27,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs David Crockett and Tamicka Oliver
Responding
Party:                  Defendant PK3C, LLC
Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On May 7, 2021, plaintiffs David
Crockett and Tamicka Oliver filed a complaint against PK3C, LLC for (1) breach
of implied warranty of habitability, (2) negligent maintenance of premises, (3)
maintenance of nuisance, (4) IIED, (5) NIED, (6) failure to disclose latent
defects, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8) breach of contract, and (9) loss
of consortium.  
            On August 31, 2021, defendant filed
an answer.
            On January 31, 2023, the case was
transferred to Dept. M.
            On July 14, 2023, the court denied
without prejudice plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
request leave to file a FAC to add a 10th cause of action for “alter
ego liability of owners and members of PK3C” and an 11th cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation and to delete the original prayer and
to add a new prayer. 
            The
complaint alleges that on March 1, 2016, plaintiffs entered into a written
residential lease agreement with defendants PK3C, LLC and Does 1-100, for the
premises at the rental rate of $2250 per month, commencing on March 1, 2016.  Complaint, ¶7.  They continue to reside there to date.  Id., ¶8. 
At the time plaintiffs took possession, the premises were uninhabitable
and unfit for human occupation in that the toilet and bathtub routinely backed
up and water leaked from the ceiling light fixture.  Id., ¶10. 
From the date plaintiffs moved into the premises they became
increasingly aware of numerous defects and dangerous conditions, including an
episode on January 2019 when the ceiling caved in a above the bathtub/shower
area and another episode occurring on November 21, 2020 when the bathroom
ceiling caved in above the toilet plaintiff David Crockett was sitting on
striking him in his head, neck, and upper body thereby causing him serious
bodily harm, and his wife plaintiff Tamicka Oliver suffered loss of consortium.  Id., ¶11. 
Throughout plaintiffs’ tenancy on the premises, they repeatedly notified
the manager, Janet Wilson, of the defects and dangerous conditions and
requested that they be properly repaired, but defendants failed and refused to
make the necessary and proper repairs.  Id.,
¶12.
            Plaintiffs
contends that leave was timely sought because after plaintiffs discovered that
defendant was uninsured (in November 2021), plaintiffs’ counsel continued to
work on resolving outstanding discovery issues with defendants and on setting
up mediation.  Plaintiffs assert that
when defendant failed to comply with their obligation to provide verified
discovery responses and cancelled mediation “at the 11th hour”
plaintiffs filed their motion for leave to amend on July 29, 2022 (in the PI
Hub).  Plaintiffs also assert that no
trial date has been set and no prejudice will result from the proposed
amendments.
            In
support of the motion, plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration states that the effect
of the amendments are twofold:  the 10th
cause of action holds the owners and members of defendant PK3C personally
liable for damages and the 11th cause of action allows plaintiffs
another avenue of recovery of special, general, and punitive damages.  Michael Drell decl., ¶¶2-3.  Counsel states that the addition of the 10th
cause of action is necessary and proper as defendant admittedly carried no
insurance to cover plaintiffs’ claim and sold the premises to deplete their
assets thereby depriving plaintiffs of a viable means of recovery unless defendant’s
veil is pierced.  He also states that
defendant and their owners and members engaged in unlawful and tortious acts
while insulating themselves from liability by hiding behind their LLC.  Id., ¶4. 
As to the 11th cause of action, counsel states that it is
necessary and proper because punitive damages are not subject to bankruptcy
discharge.  Id., ¶5.  He states that the facts giving rise to the
allegations as to alter ego were discovered about November 2021 through written
discovery.  Id., ¶6.  The facts giving rise to the allegations for
intentional misrepresentation were discovered in March 2016.  Id., ¶7. 
He states further that the reason why the request for alter ego
liability was not made earlier than July 2022 is because counsel was trying to
schedule a mediation, which defendant showed interest in to amicable settle the
case.  Id., ¶8.  As to intentional misrepresentation
amendment, he states that it was not made earlier because at the time of the
filing of the complaint, negligent misrepresentation was a viable cause of
action and all the facts were not known. 
Id., ¶9. 
            In
opposition, defendant argues that plaintiffs did not comply with CRC Rule
3.1324 because the supporting declaration “contains admissions proving that
Plaintiffs knew about the facts giving rise to the proposed amendments years
ago” and fails to set forth sufficient reason for their delay in filing the
motion.  Defendant also argues that the
proposed 11th cause of action is time barred as well as the proposed
new defendants.  
The court finds that plaintiffs’
counsel’s declaration complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  The court also finds that plaintiffs have
been dilatory in seeking leave to amend as they discovered the facts as to
alter ego in November 2021 but did not file their original motion for leave to
amend until July 2022 but that counsel provided a reasonable excuse as to his
attempts to obtain defendant’s compliance with discovery and mediation, which
purportedly defendant declined to participate at the “11th
hour.”  Further, even if plaintiffs were
dilatory, defendant has not shown prejudice. 
There is no trial date.  As to the
proposed cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, it appears to be
barred on its face considering plaintiffs were aware of it in March 2016.  The court, however, declines to find that
amendment would be futile at this stage.
The motion is thus GRANTED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.