 Case Number:  24CMCV01565    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  A  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE HERNANDEZ RUIZ,
                     Plaintiff(s), 
           vs.
 
FCA US,
   LLC, et al.,
 
                     Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCV01565
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  January 21, 2025
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 10/08/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



MOVING PARTY:              Defendant
FCA US, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Jose Hernandez Ruiz
1.    
Background
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff Jose
Hernandez Ruiz (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on July 23, 2024, Plaintiff entered
into a warranty agreement with defendant FCA US, LLC (“Defendant”) regarding a
2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee, vehicle identification number 1C4RJEBG7JC141837 (the
“Vehicle”), which was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. Plaintiff
alleges that the Vehicle contained or developed defects that substantially
affected its use, value, and/or safety.
Plaintiff has alleged causes of action for
violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code § 1793.2; violation of subdivision
(b) of Civil Code § 1793.2; violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code §
1793.2; breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; fraudulent
inducement – concealment; and negligent repair.
2.    
Discussion
Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for violation of Civil Code §
1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and to Plaintiff’s fifth cause
of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment on the grounds that the
complaint fails to meet the pleading standard for fraud and fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).)¿When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”¿(SKF
Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)¿The ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be
deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those
expressly alleged.¿(Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields v. County of San Diego
(1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n demurrer, pleadings are read
liberally and allegations contained therein are assumed to be true.”]) “The
court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿
           a. Violation of Civil
Code § 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3)
Civil Code § 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) states
that manufacturers of consumer goods must "[m]ake available to authorized
service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and replacement
parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.”
Defendant contends that the complaint only
states conclusions of law and fails to allege what parts or literature were not
available to repair facilities. Defendant also contends that the complaint
fails to state damages with specificity. In opposition, Plaintiff contends that
the specific parts or literature that were in Defendant’s possession and not
made available to repair facilities is information entirely in Defendant’s
possession and therefore a matter to be worked out in discovery.
The court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged facts in the complaint to constitute a cause of action for
violation of Civil Code § 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3). At the demurrer stage,
all factual allegations in the complaint are deemed true. Plaintiff need not
allege specifically what parts or literature were not available to repair
facilities at the demurrer stage, as that is a matter for discovery.
Furthermore, Plaintiff has adequately alleged damages. Plaintiff states in the
complaint that his damages are comprised of defects and nonconformities in the
Vehicle that have substantially impaired its use, safety, and/or value. (Compl.
¶¶ 15-16.) Plaintiff also states in the cause of action that all previous
paragraphs are incorporated by reference. (Compl. ¶ 50.) Plaintiff has
therefore alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action. The demurrer is
overruled as to the third cause of action.
           b. Fraudulent Inducement
– Concealment
The necessary elements of a fraud claim
consist of (1) a misrepresentation; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
falsity; (3) the intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance on the
defendant’s statements or lack thereof; and (5) resulting damages. (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe
LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185-1186.) In order to demonstrate fraudulent concealment, a
plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant concealed a material fact from the
plaintiff; or (4) the defendant makes some partial representations but also
suppresses some material facts. (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 831.) Fraud in
the inducement is a subset of fraud that occurs when a promisor’s consent to an
agreement is induced by fraud. (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 839 (Dhital).) Fraud must be alleged with specificity,
such that the complaint alleges the factual underpinnings of the claim. (Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc.
(2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 43 (Rattagan).)
In a fraudulent concealment case, the complaint must include specific
allegations “establishing all the required elements, including (1) the content
of the omitted facts, (2) defendant's awareness of the materiality of those
facts, (3) the inaccessibility of the facts to plaintiff, (4) the general
point at which the omitted facts should or could have been revealed, and (5)
justifiable and actual reliance, either through action or forbearance, based on
the defendant's omission.” (Id.,
at pp. 43-44.)
Defendant contends that the complaint fails to
establish that Defendant had a duty of disclosure to Plaintiff because there is
no transactional relationship between Defendant and Plaintiff. Defendant also
contends that the complaint fails to allege corporate ratification of fraud or
identify what material information was fraudulently concealed, and that Plaintiff’s
fraud claim fails the two-part test set out in Rattagan. In opposition, Plaintiff contends that a
vehicle manufacturer owes a duty to its customers to disclose defects, that
corporate ratification of fraud is not necessary to plead, that the complaint
adequately alleged that Defendant fraudulently concealed the engine defect in
the Vehicle, and that the two-part test is inapplicable because, under Rattagan, the economic loss rule does not apply to
fraudulent concealment cases.
The court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged facts in the complaint to constitute a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – concealment. Plaintiff is correct that the two-part
test that Defendant seeks to apply is, under Rattagan, not applicable to this case because the
economic loss rule does not apply to fraudulent concealment cases. (Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 38.) Plaintiff alleged that
“FCA committed fraud by allowing the Subject Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiff
without disclosing that the Subject Vehicle equipped with the 3.6L engine was
defective.” (Compl. ¶ 59.) This is sufficient to allege that Defendant
possessed exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to Plaintiff and that
Defendant concealed those material facts from Plaintiff, which establishes that
Defendant had a duty to disclose. Defendant argues that the complaint does not
allege that Defendant sold the Vehicle to Plaintiff, and that absent an alleged
agency relationship, vehicle manufacturers are not liable for the wrongs of
their dealerships; however, a direct transactional relationship is not required
to establish a duty to disclose. (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859.)
Additionally, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff must allege the names of
individuals who made the allegedly fraudulent representations is nonsensical in
the context of a fraudulent concealment claim. Defendant’s citation to Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153 is inapposite because Tarmann concerned fraudulent misrepresentation, not
fraudulent concealment.
Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant had a
duty to disclose the engine defect in the Vehicle and failed to do so, the
point at which Defendant should have disclosed the defect, that Plaintiff would
not have purchased the Vehicle if not for the concealment, and that Plaintiff
suffered damages as a result of the concealment. Plaintiff has therefore
alleged facts sufficient to establish a cause of action for fraudulent
inducement – concealment. The demurrer is overruled as to the fifth
cause of action.
3.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer. 

Defendant is ordered to give notice. 
 
DATED: January 21, 2025  

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court