 Case Number:  24STCP00557    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  82 Citizens for Chiquita Canyon
Closure,                  Case No. 24STCP00557
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: June 5, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
County
of Los Angeles,                                            Department:
82
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Sustaining Demurrers to First
Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and
Injunctive Relief 
 
 
INTRODUCTION

            
            The
Citizens for Chiquita Canyon Closure (“Petitioner”) filed the instant petition in
2024 for a writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief seeking
to void a conditional use permit in 2017, which approved the ongoing operations
and expansion of the Chiquita Canyon Landfill, and to stop the landfill’s continued
operations.  This is not the first such
petition.  In 2017, after the Board of
Supervisors approved the permit, three other citizens groups filed a petition
for a writ of mandate, arguing that the County failed to comply with the
California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code, sections 21000, et
seq. (“CEQA”) when it issued the conditional use permit.  The court (Beckloff, J.) denied the petition,
and the District Court of Appeal affirmed that decision.  
 
            In
the instant petition, Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5 or, in the alternative, section 1085.  Petitioner argues: “Defendants have failed to
proceed in the manner required by law in reviewing, processing, and approving
Landfill permits, including failing to enforce the Conditional Use Permit.  Rather, defendants’ practice and pattern in
the manner in which they approve applications systematically violates
CEQA.”  (First Amended Petition for Writ
of Mandate (“FAP”) ¶ 112.)  Petitioner
identifies specific provisions of the conditional use permit at issue.  Petitioner also asserts a cause of action
under Government Code section 11135, arguing that “[T]he County’s approval of
permits for the Landfill’s continued operations results in disproportionately
high and adverse effects on the majority minority low-income population.”  (FAP ¶ 128.) 

 
            Now,
the County and the real parties in interest (the “Real Parties”) demur to the
petition.  The court finds that any
challenge to the issuance of the conditional use permit in 2017 is untimely.  The court finds that Petitioner’s challenge
to the manner in which the County enforces the permit falls outside the scope
of Code of Civil Procedure section 1085. 
While the court understands and sympathizes with Petitioner’s complaints,
the court only has authority to require the County to exercise a ministerial
duty, which is a duty that must be performed in a “prescribed manner” and
without discretion.  Because Petitioner
challenges the manner in which the County exercises its discretion in
enforcement matters, Petitioner’s remedy lies with the County or the Legislature,
not the court.  Therefore, the court has
no choice but to sustain the demurrers.      
 
SUMMARY OF
PETITION 
 
            Petitioner is a “grass-roots,
nonprofit corporation based in Val Verde, California.”  (FAP ¶ 5.) 
The Real Parties “own, operate, manage and control the Chiquita Canyon
Landfill [hereafter ‘Landfill’], located at 29201 Henry Mayo Drive, Castaic,
California 91384.”  (Id. ¶ 9.) The
Landfill is a Class III non-hazardous municipal solid waste (“MSW”) facility,
which first began accepting waste in or about 1972.  (Id., Exh. 11 at 3.)  
 
            In 2004, the Chiquita Canyon LLC (“Chiquita”)
filed applications for a conditional use permit to continue to operate the
Landfill and to expand its operations.  (Id.
¶ 36.)  The County prepared an
environmental impact report (“EIR”) pursuant to the California Environmental
Quality Act (“CEQA”), which concluded that “environmental impacts [from] the
Project will be reduced to less than significant levels, except for impacts to
air quality, greenhouse gas emissions, and climate change.”  (Id. ¶ 42.)  Community groups and members of the community
objected to the application and raised concerns about the environmental impacts
of the project.  (Id. ¶¶ 44-46,
99-100.)     
 
            On July 25, 2017, the Board of
Supervisors approved Conditional Use Permit No. 2004-00042-(5) (the “conditional
use permit”) authorizing continued operation and expansion of the
Landfill.  (Id. ¶¶ 1, 47.)  The conditional use permit contains numerous
conditions of approval.  Petitioner
alleges that the Real Parties in Interest have violated these conditions.  (Id. ¶¶ 65-91.)  Petitioner alleges that the County has not
taken sufficient action to enforce the conditions in the conditional use permit,
resulting in the harm alleged in the first amended petition.  (See id. ¶¶ 65-91.)  
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
After the Board of Supervisors approved
the conditional use permit in 2017, three groups—Val Verde Civic Association,
Citizens for Chiquita Canyon Landfill Compliance, and Santa Clarita
Organization for Planning the Environment—filed a petition challenging the issuance
of the permit.  (Request for Judicial
Notice (“RJN”), Exh. 1.)[1]  Specifically, Petitioners challenged the adequacy
of the CEQA analysis and seeking to have a court set aside the approval of the permit.  (Ibid.)  The trial court (Beckloff, J.) denied the
writ.  (RJN, Exh. 2.)  The District Court of Appeal for the Second District,
Division Two, affirmed that decision. 
(RJN, Exh. 3.)  Petitioner was not
a party to the prior action.  
 
On February 22, 2024, Petitioner filed its
original petition for writ of mandate, and on March 4, 2024, Petitioner filed
the operative first amended petition.  The
first cause of action alleges violations of CEQA and seeks a writ of mandate
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 1094.5 or, in the alternative, section
1085.  The second cause of action alleges
violations of Government Code section 11135, which prohibits discrimination in “any
program or activity that is conducted, operated, or administered by the state
or by any state agency, is funded directly by the state, or receives any
financial assistance from the state.” 
(Gov. Code § 11135, subd. (a).) 
In its prayer for relief, Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate directing
the County to void the conditional use permit, withdraw any and all approvals
of the Landfill’s continued operations, and stopping all dumping and other
operations at the Landfill.  In other
words, Petitioner seeks to close the Landfill. 
Petitioner also appears to seek an order requiring the County to enforce
certain conditions in the conditional use permit.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD  
 
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. §
430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  “We assume the truth of the allegations in the
complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.”  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
The allegations in the
petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp.
(1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer
must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Any Challenge to the Issuance of the
Conditional Use Permit is Untimely 
 
                        1.         Petition for Writ of Mandate under
section 1094.5
 
            Any
petition for writ of mandate challenging the issuance of the conditional use
permit—which occurred in 2017—is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.  Petitioner’s first cause of action could be
interpreted as raising such a challenge because it is predicated upon Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5, and some of the allegations in the first
amended petition reference the approval of landfill permits.  (See, e.g., FAP ¶ 112.)  Any such claim would be untimely under CEQA
based upon either the 30-day or the 180-day statute of limitations.  (See Pub.
Res. Code § 21167(a) and (c).)  Petitioner
develops no argument to the contrary. 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action,
to the extent it is predicated upon Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5.     
 
                        2.         Claim under Government Code section
11135
 
            Petitioner’s
second cause of action is predicated upon the issuance of the conditional use
permit in 2017.  Specifically, Petitioner
alleges that “the County’s approval of permits for the
Landfill’s continued operations results in disproportionately high and adverse
effects on the majority of the minority low-income population.”  (FAP ¶ 128.)  However, the first amended petition identifies
only the conditional use permit.  Because
this claim seeks to enforce a liability created by statute, Petitioner was required
to file this claim within three years of issuance of the conditional use
permit, per Code of Civil Procedure section 338(a).  Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to
the second cause of action on this basis. 

 


 
            B.        Res Judicata and Collateral Estoppel
Cannot Be Resolved on Demurrer 
 
            Contrary
to the moving parties’ argument, the instant petition is not necessarily barred
under the principles of res judicata and collateral estoppel.  Res judicata, or claim preclusion, “prevents
relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same
parties or parties in privity with them.” 
(DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.)  “The doctrine of collateral estoppel provides
that a party to an action, or one in privity with a party, is barred from
subsequently relitigating issues actually litigated and finally decided in a
prior proceeding…. The issue sought to be precluded from relitigation must be
identical to that decided in a former proceeding.”  (Lincoln Place Tenants Assn. v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 425, 447, fn. 17.)  Petitioner was not a party to the prior case,
and the moving parties cannot demonstrate at this stage whether Petitioner was
in privity with any of those petitioners. 
(See
LaCour v. Marshalls of California, LLC (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 1172, 1196
[“[D]ue
process … requires that the nonparty ‘should reasonably have expected to be
bound’ by the prior adjudication… In short, we must be able to say both that another party acted as the nonparty’s
virtual representative in the first action and that the
circumstances put the nonparty on notice he may be bound by the result there.”].)  Further, the moving parties do not
demonstrate that Petitioner’s causes of action are identical to those decided
in the prior action.  To the contrary,
the first amended petition alleges that the County has failed to enforce the
conditions of the conditional use permit, suggesting that the issues are
different.  Therefore, the court cannot
resolve issues of res judicata and collateral estoppel on demurrer.  
 
            C.        Petition
for Writ of Mandate under section 1085
 
At heart, this petition for writ of mandate arises
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 because Petitioner challenges the
County’s interpretation and enforcement of the conditional use permit.  There are two essential requirements to the
issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent,
and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to
the performance of that duty. (California
Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where …
the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at
705.)
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  “To compel the
[respondent] to take some action the [petitioner] must plead and prove the
[respondent] has failed to act, and its failure to act is arbitrary, beyond the
bounds of reason, or in derogation of the applicable legal standards.”  (Id. at 704.)  “A
ministerial act is an act that a public officer is required to perform in a
prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority and without
regard to his own judgment or opinion concerning such act’s propriety or
impropriety, when a given state of facts exists.”  (Kavanaugh
v. West Sonoma County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 916.)[2]   
 
In
the instant case, none of the conditional use permit provisions contain
ministerial duties; each is discretionary. 
Petitioner appears to challenge the following conditions: 12, 15, 20,
63, 64, 65, and 77.  The court will examine
each one separately.  
 
            1.         Condition
12 
 
This
condition requires that the property “shall be developed, maintained, and
operated in full compliance with the conditions of [the permit], and any law,
statute, ordinary, or other regulation applicable to any development or
activity on the subject property.”  (FAP,
Exh. 1.)  This provision is derivative of
other permit provisions and laws.  
 
This
condition does include some mandatory duties. 
For example, the condition requires that “[i]nspections shall be made to
ensure compliance with the conditions of this grant, as well as to ensure that any
development undertaken on the subject property is in accordance with eh
approved site plan on file.”  (Ibid.)  Although this provision contains a
ministerial duty, the first amended petition does not allege that the County
failed to conduct necessary inspections. 

 
Petitioner’s
theory is that this condition requires that “[t]he permittee shall also comply
with the conditions and requirements of all permits or approvals issued by
other government agencies or departments . . . .”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner relies on a violation report,
dated August 18, 2023, stating that the Real Parties have “received 44 Notices
of Violation (NOV) between May 17, 2023 and August 16, 2023 for violating Southern
California Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Rule 402 and California
Health & Safety Code Section 41700 in relation to nuisance odors that are
emanating from the Landfill.”  (Id.,
Exh. 2.)  Condition 12 does not require
any ministerial action on the party of the County in response to such
complaints. 
 
            2.         Condition
15  
 
This
condition provides that the County “shall have the authority to order the
immediate cessation of Landfill operations or other activities at the Facility
if the Board, Department of Regional Planning, or DPH determines that such cessation
is necessary for the health, safety, and/or welfare of the County’s residents
or the environment.”  (Id., Exh.
1.)  This provision is entirely
discretionary and contains no ministerial duty. 

 
Notwithstanding
the plain language of this condition, Petitioner argues that this provision contains
a ministerial duty because it “requires a CEQA analysis.”  (Oppo. at 5:22-23.)  Petitioner contends, in effect, that the County’s
discretionary enforcement decisions are “projects” within the meaning of CEQA, and
such “projects” require environmental review. 
(Id. at 11-12, citing Pub. Res. Code §§ 21068 and 21080.)  The court disagrees with this analysis.  In fact, CEQA applies to “discretionary
projects proposed to be carried out or approved by public agencies, including,
… the issuance of conditional use permits ….” 
(Pub. Res. Code § 21080(a).)  A “project” is defined under CEQA as an “activity which may cause either a
direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect
physical change in the environment....” (Pub. Resources
Code § 21065; see also CEQA
Guidelines § 15378.) An “activity” includes “[a]n activity
directly undertaken by any public agency.” (§ 21065(a).) 
 
Petitioner
cites no authority in support of the proposition that a regulatory agency’s
discretionary decision not to enforce a permit condition, or to
enforce the condition in a particular manner, is a “project” subject to
CEQA.  Further, CEQA categorically
exempts from environmental review “[a]ctions by regulatory agencies to enforce
or revoke a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other entitlement for use
issued, adopted, or prescribed by the regulatory agency or enforcement of a
law, general rule, standard, or objective, administered or adopted by the
regulatory agency.”  (14 Cal. Code of
Regs. § 15321(a); see also Pub. Res. Code § 21174.)  The first amended petition does not address
this categorical exemption or allege any facts suggesting that it does not
apply to County’s ongoing enforcement decisions. 
 
In
its opposition brief, Petitioner argues that the County had an obligation to conduct
a supplemental environmental study:
 
CEQA does contemplate
environmental impacts substantially changing during the life of a project and
provides for a lead agency to conduct subsequent environmental impact reports
where substantial changes are proposed in the project, substantial changes
occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is undertaken,
or [there is] new information of substantial importance, which was not known and
could not have been known at the time [of] the previous environmental impact report.  California Code of Regulations, title 14,
section 15162 (CEQA Guidelines section 151262). 

 
(Oppo.
at 9:28-10:6.)  In other words,
Petitioner now argues that there is some change at the Landfill that
necessitates a new environmental impact report under CEQA.  This legal theory is not pleaded in the first
amended petition.  “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not … extrinsic matters.” 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  Nor does this argument make sense in the
context of Petitioner’s allegations that the County violated CEQA by not utilizing
its enforcement discretion in the manner requested by Petitioner.  As discussed, actions by regulatory agencies to
enforce a permit are exempt from CEQA.  
 
3.         Condition 20 
 
This
condition states that “the Regional Planning Commission . . . or a Hearing
Officer “may, after conducting a public hearing in accordance
with Section 22.56.1780, et seq. of the County Code, revoke or modify this
grant, if the Commission or Hearing Officer finds that these conditions have
been violated, or that this grant has been exercised so as to be detrimental to
the public's health or safety, or so as to be a nuisance.”  (FAP, Exh. 1.)  Again, this provision vests Respondent with
discretionary, not ministerial, authority over enforcement actions.  
 
Enforcement
decisions are generally not reviewable.  “[A]n agency’s decision not to prosecute or enforce, whether through
civil or criminal process, is a decision generally committed to an agency’s
absolute discretion. . . .  This
recognition of the existence of discretion is attributable in no small part to
the general unsuitability for judicial review of agency decisions to refuse
enforcement.”  (Heckler v.
Chaney (1985) 470 U.S. 821, 831.)  This principle applies in both civil and
criminal matters in which an agency or public officer has enforcement
discretion.  (See People v. Karriker
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 763, 786; accord People v. Cimarusti (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 314, 322-323; Riggs v. City of Oxnard (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d
526, 530; Dix v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 442, 451; Gananian v.
Wagstaffe (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1545-1546; Schwartz v.
Poizner
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 592, 597–598.)    
 
Petitioner
does not allege sufficient facts to circumvent this authority.  In certain limited circumstances, mandamus may be utilized to correct abuses of discretion.  
 
In determining whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the
court may not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable
minds may disagree as to the wisdom of the agency’s action, its determination
must be upheld.  A court must ask whether
the public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in
evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow the procedure and
give the notices the law requires.
 
(County of
Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)  In this case, however, Petitioner does not
argue, or cite any authority, that the County’s discretionary enforcement
decisions may be reviewed for abuse of discretion.  Moreover, even if limited judicial review was
available, Petitioner does not plead sufficient facts to support a theory that
County’s enforcement decisions have been arbitrary, capricious, or entirely
lacking in evidentiary support.  To the contrary.  Although Petitioner alleges that County has
“failed to enforce” the conditions of the conditional use permit, the first
amended petition includes detailed allegations showing that the County and
other agencies have in fact taken enforcement action.  (See FAP ¶¶ 72-91, Exh. 12 [October 17, 2023,
letter of County Department of Public Health ordering remedial measures].)  
 
The gravamen of Petitioner’s complaint is that there
are “alternatives for Los Angeles County’s trash.”  (FAP, ¶ 92.) 
Specifically, Petitioner alleges:
 
The County has numerous alternatives for the disposal of Los Angeles
County’s 
trash. . . .  Trash could be
diverted to the regions of other landfills which still have capacity. . . .  Trash could be sent by rail to the Mesquite Regional
Landfill. . . .  
The County admits that there are better ways to manage waste than what
the County is currently doing. 
 
(FAP, ¶¶ 92-98.) 
These allegations demonstrate that Petitioner is challenging the County’s
exercise of its discretion, which is not suitable for relief under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1085.    
 
            4.         Condition 63 through Condition 65 and
Condition 77
 
            These
conditions require the permittee to undertake certain actions.  None of these conditions impose any
ministerial duty upon the County. 
Rather, enforcement of these conditions falls within the scope of the County’s
discretionary authority.
 
            5.         Conclusion 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, Petitioner does not allege any violation of a ministerial
duty.  To the contrary, Petitioner’s
first cause of action is predicated exclusively on challenges to the County’s
exercise of discretion, arguing that the County should have pursued “alternatives
for Los Angeles County’s trash.”  This
falls outside the scope of the court’s authority under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085.  Therefore, the court
sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action.
 
            D.        Claim under Government Code section
11135
 
            Finally,
to the extent Petitioner predicates its second claim on how the County utilizes
its discretionary authority to enforce the conditional use permit, Petitioner
does not allege sufficient facts.  Government Code
section 11135 provides, in relevant part: 
 
No person in the
State of California shall, on the basis of sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, ethnic group
identification, age, mental disability, physical disability, medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, or sexual orientation, be
unlawfully denied full and equal access to the benefits of, or be unlawfully
subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity that is
conducted, operated, or administered by the state or by any state agency, is
funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance from the
state.
 
(Gov.
Code § 11135, subd. (a), emphasis added.) 
Petitioner does not allege that the County’s conditional use permit or
enforcement of its conditions is a “program or activity that is . . . funded
directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance from the state.”  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained to the second
cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Essentially, Petitioner alleges that
the County has not sufficiently enforced the conditions in the conditional use
permit and seeks remedial action.  While
the court has authority to enforce ministerial duties—which are those performed
in a “prescribed manner” and without discretion—the court does not have
authority to require the County to undertake discretionary enforcement actions
under these circumstances.  Petitioner
attempts to circumvent this issue by arguing that the County must comply with
CEQA in enforcing the conditional use permit, but that argument is contrary to
the plain language of the regulations.  The
court understands and sympathies with Petitioner’s complaints about the Chiquita
Canyon Landfill but does not have authority under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085 to remedy the issue.  Rather,
Petitioner must raise these issues with the County (which decides whether to
issue landfill permits and how to enforce their conditions) or the Legislature
(to the extent Petitioner seeks a change in the law).  Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as
follows:
 
            1.         The
court sustains the demurrers to the first and second causes of action.    
 
            2.         The
court denies leave to amend to the extent the first and second causes of action
are predicated upon the issuance of the conditional use permit in 2017, because
those claims are untimely. 
 
            3.         The
court denies leave to amend with respect to the first cause of action, to the
extent it is predicated on Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, because Petitioner
articulates no facts suggesting the County has violated any ministerial duty
under the conditional use permit.
 
            3.         The
court denies leave to amend with respect to the second cause of action, to the
extent it is predicated upon how the County exercises its discretion to enforce
the conditional use permit, because Petitioner does not represent that it can
amend the petition to allege that this exercise is a “program or activity that
is . . . funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance
from the state.”  
 
            4.         Respondent
shall prepare and lodge a proposed judgment for the court’s signature.
 
            5.         Respondent’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated:
 June 5, 2024                                                   ________________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch 
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


