  Case Number:  24STCP01645    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesCHA HOLLYWOOD MEDICAL CENTER, L.P.,Petitioner,vs.CHINO STEEL, INC.,Respondent.Case No.: 24STCP01645DEPARTMENT 45[TENTATIVE] RULINGAction Filed: 05/21/24Trial Date: N/AHearing date: November 6, 2024Moving Party: Petitioner Cha Hollywood Medical Center, L.P.Responding Party: Respondent Chino Steel, Inc.Motion for Attorneys’ FeesThe Court has considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.The hearing on the motion is CONTINUED.BackgroundThis action arises from a claim of mechanic’s lien as to a property located at 1300-1322 North Vermont Ave., Los Angeles, California 90027 (the “Property”). On May 21, 2024, Petitioner Cha Hollywood Medical Center, L.P. (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien (the “Petition”) against Respondent Chino Steel, Inc. (“Respondent”).According to the Petition, on or about July 20, 2023, Respondent “caused to be recorded a duly verified Claim of Mechanics Lien against the Property in the amount of $750,000, Instrument Number 20230478110.” (Petition at p. 2:12-15.) Petitioner demanded that Respondent release the lien; however, Respondent did not release the lien. (Petition at p. 3:4-11.)2In the Petition, in addition to requesting that the lien be released, Petitioner also requested reasonable attorneys’ fees. (Petition at p. 3:18-21.)On May 28, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice of Hearing on Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien.On July 24, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien.On July 30, 2024, at the hearing on the Petition, Petitioner’s counsel informed the Court that the mechanic’s lien was released by Respondent and the only pending issue was the issue of attorneys’ fees. (07/30/24 Minute Order.) The Court ruled that the Petition was moot. (07/30/24 Minute Order.) The Court advised Petitioner’s counsel “to file a declaration that informs the Court that the mechanic’s lien has been released and to file a motion for attorney’s fees.” (07/30/24 Minute Order.) There was no appearance by or for Respondent at the hearing. (07/30/24 Minute Order.) Petitioner was ordered to give notice. (07/30/24 Minute Order.)On October 8, 2024, Petitioner filed and served the instant Motion for Attorneys’ Fees Pursuant to Civil Code section 8488. Petitioner requests “that the Court issue an [o]rder awarding attorneys’ fees in its favor and as against Respondent” in the amount of $10,857.00. (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:3-8.)On October 24, 2024, Respondent filed an opposition to the motion, to which Petitioner replied on October 29, 2024.Legal StandardWhere a petition is filed to release a mechanic’s lien “[a]t the hearing both (1) the petition and (2) the issue of compliance with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article are deemed controverted by the claimant. The petitioner has the initial burden of producing evidence on those matters. The petitioner has the burden of proof as to the issue of compliance3with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article. The claimant has the burden of proof as to the validity of the lien.” (Civ. Code, § 8488, subd. (a).)“If judgment is entered in favor of the petitioner, the court shall order the property released from the claim of lien.” (Civ. Code, § 8488, subd. (b).) “The prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Civ. Code, § 8488, subd. (c).)Attorneys’ fees are “computed in accordance with the familiar lodestar method.” (Cruz v. Fusion Buffet, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 221, 237.) Under the lodestar method, a trial court “tabulates the attorney fee touchstone, or lodestar, by multiplying the number of hours reasonably expended by the reasonable hourly rate prevailing in the community for similar work.” (Ibid.) “[A] party must present some evidence to support its award request.” (Ibid.) “The declaration of an attorney as to the number of hours worked on a particular case may be sufficient evidence to support an award of attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed time records.” (Ibid.) “[S]ufficient evidence to support an attorney fee award may include [d]eclarations of counsel setting forth the reasonable hourly rate, the number of hours worked and the tasks performed.” (Ibid.) “There is no requirement that an attorney provide time records or billing statements.” (Id. at p. 238.)DiscussionPetitioner contends that the motion should be granted because: (1) it is the prevailing party for purposes of Civ. Code § 8488; and (2) its fee request, counsel’s hourly rates, and total hours are reasonable.In opposition to the motion, Respondent contends that: (1) Petitioner is not entitled to attorneys’ fees because it is not the prevailing party on the Petition; and (2) the attorneys’ fees sought are unreasonable, unsupported, and unnecessary.4Declarations in Support of the MotionPetitioner presents declarations from Haik Gasparyan (“Gasparyan”) and Paul V. Rayburn (“Rayburn”) in support of the motion.Declaration of Haik GasparyanMr. Gasparyan relevantly states the following: On April 10, 2024, his office, on behalf of Petitioner, sent a letter to Respondent, by messenger and certified mail, demanding that Respondent record a release of its expired and unenforceable lien. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. B.) The Petition was filed on May 21, 2024, and notice of the Petition was given to Respondent on May 29, 2024. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. C.) On July 18, 2024, Mr. Gasparyan received an email from Respondent’s counsel stating that Respondent had released the lien on July 17, 2024, and provided a copy of the recorded lien release. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. E.) On July 30, 2024, a hearing on the Petition occurred, and counsel was “instructed . . . to file a declaration stating that Respondent . . . had released its [l]ien, and further, to file a separate . . . motion for attorneys’ fees.” (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. G.)Mr. Gasparyan further states that, post-hearing, he attempted to resolve the issue of attorneys’ fees with Respondent’s counsel. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. H.) Such issue was not resolved as Respondent’s counsel refused to pay Petitioner’s demand for attorneys’ fees. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 11; Ex. I.)Mr. Gasparyan’s hourly rate is $425.00 per hour, and he has seven years of experience handling construction litigation matters in Los Angeles County. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 12.) Mr. Gasparyan spent six (6) hours in connection with the Petition and in excess of 12 hours on the instant motion for attorneys’ fees. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶¶ 13(a)-(b).) Counsel expects to spend an additional three (3) hours reviewing any opposition to the motion and preparing a reply brief, as well as for appearing at the hearing on the motion. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 13(c).) Mr. Gasparyan states that “[t]he monthly invoices were closely monitored by counsel such that counsel is5confident that the number of hours billed are commensurate with the tasks that were needed to be performed.” (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 14.)Declaration of Paul V. RayburnMr. Rayburn states the following: he bills at an hourly rate of $805.00 in this matter. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Rayburn has over 25 years of experience as an attorney practicing law in Los Angeles handling construction cases, including complex public and private works matters. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Rayburn spent at least 1.1 hours reviewing and revising the Petition. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 2.) In addition, he spent at least 1.3 hours reviewing and revising the instant motion. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Rayburn attests that the hourly rates are reasonable for construction litigation attorneys in Los Angeles. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 5.)Declaration in Opposition to the MotionIn opposition of the motion, Respondent’s counsel, Lauren B. Stec (“Stec”), declares that on July 20, 2023, as a result of not being paid for its work, Respondent recorded a mechanic’s lien for $750,000.00. (Stec Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. I.) On July 17, 2024, Respondent recorded a release of mechanic’s lien, and, on July 18, 2024, Respondent served Petitioner a copy of the released lien on Petitioner’s counsel via e-mail. (Stec Decl., ¶ 8; Exs. 3, 4.) Respondent’s counsel requested that Petitioner take the Petition off calendar as it was moot due to the mechanic’s lien being released, to which Petitioner’s counsel refused. (Stec Decl., ¶ 8; Ex. 3, 4.)On July 30, 2024, the Petition was heard, and the Court ruled that the Petition was moot because the mechanic’s lien had been released. (Stec Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 5.) Petitioner was ordered to file a declaration that the mechanic’s lien was released and to file a separate motion for attorneys’ fees. (Stec Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 5.) Petitioner did not file the declaration. (Stec Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 5.)On or about October 8, 2024, Petitioner filed and served its motion for attorneys’ fees seeking $10,857.00 in attorneys’ fees on a petition that was deemed moot by the Court and is6$7,812.00 more than what was originally requested in the Petition. (Stec Decl., ¶ 10.) Ms. Stec declares that Petitioner is not entitled to attorneys’ fees because it is not the prevailing party. (Stec Decl., ¶ 11.) Ms. Stec attacks the reasonableness of Petitioner’s claimed attorneys’ fees. (Stec Decl., ¶ 11.)AnalysisPetitioner is the Prevailing Partya.Applicable Law“The definition of prevailing party is not uniform under California law, and many attorney fees statutes contain a technical definition applicable to the particular statutory scheme.” (Zuehlsdorf v. Simi Valley Unified School Dist. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 249, 257.) “In the absence of legislative direction in the attorney fees statute, the courts have concluded that a rigid definition prevailing party should not be used.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) “Rather, prevailing party status should be determined by the trial court based on an evaluation of whether a party prevailing on a practical level, and the trial court’s decision should be affirmed on appeal absent an abuse of discretion.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) “Among the factors the trial court must consider in determining whether a party prevailed is the extent to which each party has realized its litigation objectives.” (Sharif v. Mehusa, Inc. (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 185, 192.)Code Civ. Proc. § 1032 provides that “[p]revailing [p]arty includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) “If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the prevailing party shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd.7(a)(4).) “Typically, a determination of no prevailing party results when both parties seek relief, but neither prevails, or when the ostensibly prevailing party receives only part of the relief sought. In other words, the judgment is considered good news and bad news as to each of the parties[.].” (Deane Gardenhome Assn v. Denktas (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1398.)b.Analysis as to Prevailing Party StatusRespondent contends that, because the Petition was deemed moot,Petitioner is not the prevailing party. (Opp’n at p. 4:26-27.) The Court disagrees. Here, Petitioner filed the Petition and, prior to the hearing on the Petition, Respondent released its mechanic’s lien. It was Respondent’s failure to release the lien after Petitioner’s demand which necessitated the Petition. Although the Petition was deemed moot, Petitioner achieved its objections of the litigation by ultimately obtaining a release of the mechanic’s lien on the Property. Petitioner was seeking affirmative relief from Respondent—a release of the lien—and Petitioner achieved the objects of the litigation through Respondent’s release of the lien. Therefore, under Civ. Code § 1032(a)(4) and Zuehlsdorf v. Simi Valley Unified School Dist., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th 249, 257, the Court deems Petitioner to be the prevailing party. As such, Petitioner is entitled to its attorneys’ fees under Civ. Code § 8488.Reasonableness of Petitioner’s Claimed Attorneys’ FeesPetitioner contends that its requested attorneys’ fees are reasonable. Respondent asserts that the fee request is unreasonable, and the motion should be denied.a.Analysis as to ReasonablenessWhile the Court finds that Petitioner is the prevailing party, the Court finds that Petitionerhas not presented any billing records or invoices substantiating the work done by counsel in connection with the instant action. Petitioner’s counsel has only attested to the reasonableness of the hourly rates; however, counsel has not attested to the reasonableness of the work done concerning the Petition and the instant motion. (Rayburn Decl., ¶ 5.) Petitioner’s counsel has8failed to attest to the reasonableness or necessity of the time spent on the tasks set forth in counsel’s respective declarations. The Court opines as to why the Petition, which consists of a three-page memorandum of points and authorities and accompanying exhibits, took four hours to prepare. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 13(a)(i).) Further, the Court also has questions as to why the instant motion took 8.5 hours to prepare. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶ 13(b)(iii).) While there is no requirement that time records be produced under Cruz, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th 221, 238, given that Petitioner is requesting $10,857.00 in attorneys’ fees, the Court would like to review the billing records prior to ruling on the motion. The Court wants to ensure that the requested fees are reasonable.The Court therefore CONTINUES the hearing on Petitioner’s motion for attorneys’ fees to January 15, 2025 at 8:30 AM in this department. The Court ORDERS counsel for Petitioner to file and serve a supplemental declaration or declarations setting forth the reasonableness of the tasks performed and time spent, and to provide the Court with billing records for the work done in this case. The Court orders that supplemental declaration(s) be filed and served 9 court days before January 15, 2025. Any responsive declaration or declarations shall be filed and served 5 court days before January 15, 2025. No reply declaration or declaration(s) will be allowed.It is so ordered.Dated: November 6, 2024_______________________MEL RED RECANAJudge of the Superior Court