 Case Number:  21STCV19791    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court  rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Prior proceedings  On  May 26, 2021, Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Magic Mountain, LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general  negligence and premises liability.  On  June 21, 2021, Defendant filed an answer. On  January 30, 2024, the Court granted in part and denied in part Plaintiff’s  motion for summary adjudication of Defendant’s affirmative defenses.  The Court summarily adjudicated Defendant’s statute  of limitations affirmative defense in Plaintiff's favor.  The  Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of (1) Defendant’s  assumption of risk affirmative defense to the extent the affirmative defense  involves the doctrine of secondary assumption of risk (which is merged into  Defendant’s comparative negligence affirmative defense), (2) Defendant’s  comparative negligence affirmative defense, (3) Defendant’s fault of others  affirmative defense, and (4) Defendant’s Proposition 51 affirmative defense.  On  May 9, 2024, Department 1 of this Court (“Department 1”) denied Defendant’s  motion to transfer and consolidate two cases filed in Santa Clara County Superior  Court with this case (Los Angeles  Superior Court case number 21STCV1971).  Department  1 stated that Plaintiff's complaint in the first Santa Clara action (21CV376599) raises  the same causes of action as this case and has been dismissed.  In the second Santa Clara action (24CV433621), Plaintiff “seeks  declaratory relief as a collateral attack on a judgment.”  Department  1 found that this case (“the Los Angeles action”) did not share predominating  and significant common questions of law or fact with the two Santa Clara  actions:  “The Los Angeles action is a  personal injury action, which seeks to adjudicate Defendant’s liability for  Plaintiff’s injuries. The initial Santa Clara action, 21CV376599, has been  reduced to judgment with the only pending issue whether Plaintiff is entitled  to change the voluntary dismissal from one with prejudice to one without. [Citation.]  Thus, Plaintiff has no intention of continuing to litigate the personal injury  action in Santa Clara. In the second Santa Clara action, 24CV433621, Plaintiff  seeks to collaterally attack the dismissal entered in 21CV376599 as void  through an action for declaratory relief. [Citation.] Thus, the merits of  Plaintiff’s personal injury claims will not be at issue in either Santa Clara  case. Defendant’s asserted res judicata defenses in the Los Angeles case, based  upon the dismissal in 21CV376599, are not a predominating common issue of fact  or law with the other cases. Rather, it is a potential legal result based upon  the status of the judgment entered in the first action.”  In addition, Department 1 observed that “Defendant’s  pending motion and defense in the Los Angeles action is based upon the outcome  of Plaintiff’s efforts to alter the judgment of dismissal entered in 21CV376599  . . . .”  Accordingly, “any  potential risk of [inconsistent] rulings arising from Defendant’s assertions of  the res judicata defenses in the Los Angeles case is more efficiently resolved  by a stay or continuance to allow the Santa Clara court to address the issues  raised regarding its judgment in 21CV376599.”  On August  7, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for leave to amend its answer to  add the following affirmative defenses: estoppel (tenth affirmative defense),  res judicata and collateral estoppel (eleventh affirmative defense), and waiver  (twelfth affirmative defense).  B.   This motion  On  March 11, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings and  request for judicial notice.  The hearing  was set for April 5, 2024.  On March 22,  2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, request for judicial notice, and objection.  On March 28, 2024, Defendant filed a reply  and reply to Plaintiff’s objection.  On  June 28, 2024, Defendant filed a supplemental memorandum and request for  judicial notice.  The Court continued the  hearing to August 13, 2024.  No  trial date is currently scheduled.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to grant its motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD          A.   Judgment on the pleadings  Code  of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part:  “(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the  pleadings.  * * *  “(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may  only be made on one of the following grounds:  * * *  “(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either  of the following conditions exist:  “(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of  the cause of action alleged in the complaint.  “(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action against that defendant.  “(2) The motion provided for in this section may be  made as to either of the following:  “(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to  any of the causes of action stated therein.  * * *  “(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this  section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter  of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is  based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to  Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the  notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the  court may otherwise permit.  “(e) No motion may be made pursuant to this section if  a pretrial conference order has been entered pursuant to Section 575, or within  30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is later,  unless the court otherwise permits.  * * *  “(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may  be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the  case may be.  “(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this  section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,  then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was  granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be.  “(3) If the motion is granted with respect to the  entire complaint or answer without leave to file an amended complaint or  answer, as the case may be, then judgment shall be entered forthwith in  accordance with the motion granting judgment to the moving party. . . .”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b), (c), (d), (e), (h).)  ‘‘A  motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general  demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the  pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. [Citations.]’  [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential Community, L.P. v.  Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265,  274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true all properly pleaded  material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law,  and [the court] may also consider judicially noticed matters. [Citation.]” (Bear  Creek Master Assn. v. Southern California Investors, Inc. (2018) 28  Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  “A  motion for judgment on the pleadings lies where the court can take judicial  notice of a prior action between the parties as the basis for collateral estoppel  (or res judicata) in the present action.”  (L. Edmon and  C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 7:294,  pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96, citing Barker v. Hull  (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 227 & Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 186-187 (Bucur).)  B.   Res judicata  “ “The  doctrine of res judicata bars a party and persons in privity with that party  from relitigating a claim following a final judgment on the merits of the  claim.” (Roberson v. City of Rialto (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1510.)  “The prerequisite elements of res judicata in its claim preclusion form are (1)  the claim in the present action must be identical to a claim litigated or that  could have been litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding  resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the  doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior  proceeding. [Citations.]” (Bucur, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th at p.  185.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE                    The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  PLAINTIFF’S OBJECTIONS  A.   Inadequate meet and confer effort  Overruled.  “A determination by the court that the meet  and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the  motion for judgment on the pleadings.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).)  B.   Timeliness  Overruled.  No trial date is currently set.  The Court finds that the motion is timely under  Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (e).  DISCUSSION  Defendant  asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff’s claims for  general negligence and premises liability because the Santa Clara County  Superior Court dismissed another case, in which Plaintiff alleged the same  facts and claims against Defendant, with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  According to Defendant, the doctrine of res  judicata prevents Plaintiff from asserting these claims in this  subsequently-filed case.   (See Motion pp. 4-5, citing Alpha Mechanical, Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc.  v. Travelers Casualty & Surety Co. of America (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1319, 1326-1331; Roybal v.  Univ. Ford (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1080, 1085 [“Roybal's voluntary dismissal  with prejudice constituted a determination on the merits and was res judicata”].)  Plaintiff  opposes the motion, first arguing that a statutory motion for judgment on the  pleadings cannot be based on res judicata.   However, at least two Court of Appeal decisions have assumed that res  judicata principles can, if applicable, support a statutory motion for judgment  on the pleadings (although neither decision directly addressed the issue).  (See State Compensation Insurance Fund v. ReadyLink  Healthcare, Inc. (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 422, 445-465 [reversing judgment on  the pleadings because res judicata did not apply]; Bucur, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th at pp. 186-187 [affirming order  granting statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings based on res judicata,  judicial admissions, and judicial estoppel].)   Plaintiff has cited no case authority to the contrary.  The Court declines to adopt the analysis  contained in the treatise Plaintiff cites, which asserts that Code of Civil  Procedure section 438 “apparently” precludes use of res judicata as the basis  for a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Plaintiff  also argues that the two actions assert different injuries and therefore are  not identical for res judicata purposes.   Plaintiff’s form complaints in both the Santa Clara and Los Angeles actions checked a box alleging that Plaintiff’s injuries occurred within the respective Courts’  jurisdictions.  However, as Defendant points out, both complaints also alleged that Plaintiff was injured on August 19, 2019, at 26101 Magic Mountain  Parkway, Valencia, CA, 91355.  Therefore,  the alleged injuries are the same for purposes of res judicata.  Plaintiff’s  third argument – that the dismissal in the first action is void because Plaintiff  did not authorize it – was the subject of Plaintiff’s motion asking the Santa  Clara Superior Court to vacate or otherwise set aside the dismissal and enter a  new order dismissing the case without prejudice.  On June 20, 2024, the Court denied the motion,  concluding the dismissal was voidable rather than void and that Plaintiff did  not seek timely relief.  In  addition to the motion to vacate the dismissal, Plaintiff filed a declaratory  relief action in the Santa Clara Superior Court to set aside the dismissal as  unauthorized and therefore void as a matter of law.  According to Defendant, Defendant’s demurrer  in the declaratory relief action is set for hearing on August 22, 2024.  As  Department 1 observed on May 9, 2024, “Defendant’s pending motion and defense  in the Los Angeles action is based upon the outcome of Plaintiff’s efforts to  alter the judgment of dismissal entered in 21CV376599 . . . .”  Thus, “any potential risk of [inconsistent]  rulings arising from Defendant’s assertions of the res judicata defenses in the  Los Angeles case is more efficiently resolved by a stay or continuance to allow  the Santa Clara court to address the issues raised regarding its judgment in  21CV376599.”    Although  the Santa Clara court addressed these issues in its June 20, 2024 order, the  Court cannot predict how the Santa Clara Court will address these issues in the pending declaratory  relief action.  The Court therefore  continues the hearing on Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings to a  date to be provided at the August 13, 2024 hearing.  CONCLUSION  The  Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant Magic  Mountain, LLC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings to a date to be provided  at the August 13, 2024 hearing.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.