  Case Number:  23STCV00118    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THE PEOPLE OF
  THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JJWV MARKETING CORPORATION, VICTOR
  CHONGMAN PAK,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV00118
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER VERIFIED
  RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ADMISSION OF FACT AND GENUINENESS OF
  DOCUMENTS TO DEFENDANT VICTOR CHONGMAN PAK, SET ONE, AND IMPOSING MONETARY
  SANCTIONS AGAINST VICTOR CHONGMAN PAK AND HIS COUNSEL
 
Date: August 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA (the “People”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
 No opposition has been filed.  Any opposition was required to have been filed
and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 4, 2023, the People filed this
civil law enforcement action against Defendant Victor Chongman Pak (“Pak”) and
his company, JJVW Marketing Corporation (collectively, “Defendants”).  The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleges three causes of action for: (1) violation of the Unfair Competition Law
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200, et seq.); (2) violations of the California
Fish and Game Code (Fish & G. Code, §§ 2118, 2125 and 8035); and (3)
violations of the California Code of Regulations (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, §§
671 and 671.1.)  According to the FAC, Defendants
imported live specimens of Blacklip Abalone, a species restricted under
California law because it poses a biosecurity hazard, and failed to procure a
fish wholesaler license as required by California law. 
 
            On March 7, 2024, the People filed a
Motion for Order Deeming Admitted the Truth of Facts and Genuineness of
Documents and Imposing Monetary Sanctions (“Motion to Compel”) against Pak and
his counsel.  On April 9, 2024, two days
before the hearing on the Motion to Compel, Pak served the People with his
responses to the People’s Requests for Admissions (“RFAs”) and other discovery
requests.  (Declaration of Mark Soto in
Support of Motion to Compel Further Verified Responses (“Soto Decl.”), ¶ 6.)  
 
            On May 15, 2024, the People filed
the present Motion to Compel Further Verified Responses to Requests for
Admission (the “Motion”).  No opposition
to the Motion was filed.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
A motion to compel further responses may be brought
based on responses to requests for admission that: (1) provide evasive or
incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a).)  
 
Motions to compel further responses must always be
accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration (per Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040)
demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.”  (Id., §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2),
2033.290(b).)  They must also be
accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses,
verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must also be complete
in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference.  (Id.,
rule 3.1345(c).)
 
In its Motion, the People contends that Pak’s April
9, 2024 response to the People’s RFAs is insufficient as it consists of only the
following blanket objection to each RFA: “This Request seeks information
which could tend to incriminate Responding Party in matters involving criminal
charges.  Responding Party hereby invokes
protections afforded by the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution,
Article 1, section 15 of the California Constitution and California Evidence
Code, section 940.  See also In re
Marriage of Sachs (2002) 95 Cal. App. 4th 1144, 116 Cal. Rptr. 2d 273.” (Soto
Decl., ¶¶ 8-10; Exh. A.)
 
Privilege Against Self-Incrimination
“Section 940 of the Evidence Code provides that
‘[to] the extent that such privilege exists under the Constitution of the
United States or the State of California, a person has a privilege to refuse to
disclose any matter that may tend to incriminate him.’  However, since the privilege protects against
real dangers, not remote and speculative possibilities (citation omitted), a
witness must satisfy the court that the claim of privilege is justified and not
a mere subterfuge.”  (Warford v.
Medeiros (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1043.)
 
As held by the Court of Appeal in Warford v.
Medeiros:
 
“Federal cases also
establish that ‘[there] is no blanket Fifth Amendment right to refuse to answer
questions in noncriminal proceedings" (Capitol Products Corporation v.
Hernon (8th Cir. 1972) 457 F.2d 541, 542) and that "[the] privilege must be
specifically claimed on a particular question and the matter submitted to the
court for its determination as to the validity of the claim’ [citations
omitted]. This has long been the rule in California with respect to both
criminal and civil proceedings [citations omitted]. 
 
“The reason for the
requirement that the person claiming the privilege must object with specificity
to the information sought from him is that only where this is done is the trial
court enabled to make the particularized inquiry required of it. ‘A party is
not entitled to decide for himself whether he is protected by the fifth
amendment privilege. Rather, this question is for the court to decide after
conducting 'a particularized inquiry, deciding, in connection with each
specific area that the questioning party seeks to explore, whether or not the
privilege is well-founded.'” 
 
(Warford, supra,
at 1044-1045.)
 
Therefore, Pak was required to object with
specificity to the information sought from him for the court to make a
particularized inquiry as to whether the information was privileged.  As Defendant’s objections were boilerplate
and did not provide adequate justification for its claim that the information
sought was privileged, the Court finds that Pak’s responses are not Code-compliant
and that further responses are required.
 
Waiver
of Privilege
Moreover,
if a party to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including those based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(a).)
 
 In
Brown v. Superior Court, it was held that civil defendants may waive
their right to assert the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination
by failing to raise it as an objection within the 30-day period prescribed.  (Brown v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 701.)  Furthermore, Brown
concluded that this waiver is not treated differently from other privileges
which may be similarly waived.  (Id.)
 
Here,
since Pak’s responses were not served within the 30-day prescribed period and
were therefore untimely, Pak has waived the privilege against
self-incrimination, and any other objection to the People’s RFAs.
Monetary Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(d) provides
for mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  
 
“The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Here,
the Court finds that finds that monetary sanctions are warranted.  The Court does not find any substantial
justification or any other circumstance that would make the imposition of the
sanction unjust.  The People request
monetary sanctions against Pak and his counsel in the amount of $12,920 (38
hours at a rate of $340/hour).  (Soto
Decl., ¶ 19.)  The Court finds that
reasonable sanctions in the amount of $1,360 (4 hours at a rate of $340/hour) are
appropriate under the circumstances.
 
RULING
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the People’s Motion.  The Court orders Pak to serve verified further
responses, and without objections, to Plaintiff’s RFAs within 20 days of this
Order.  Further, Pak and his counsel are
ordered to pay $1,360 in monetary sanctions, jointly and severally, within 20
days of this Order.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 