 Case Number:  23BBCV00744    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 5, 2024 

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case #23BBCV00744

 



MP:  


Gagan H. Palrecha (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Loyalty Creative Enterprise, LLC, et
  al – No Opposition Filed



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Gagan H.
Palrecha (Plaintiff) brings
this action against Loyalty Creative Enterprise LLC, Nicholas S. Larsen, and
Peter Munzo (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff originally brought this action
as one for unlawful detainer. Plaintiff alleged the Defendants were improperly
in possession of the property known as 4248 Vanetta Drive Studio City, CA 91604
(the Property). 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for leave to amend his Complaint to reflect the fact that Defendants
have subsequently quit the premises. Plaintiff seeks to remove his cause of
action for unlawful detainer and add causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Conversion, (3) Property Damage, and (4) Unfair Competition.
Defendants have rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966.) While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has
caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it
denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing
side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff attaches a
proposed First Amended Complaint to his motion (Yetka Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff
also states the allegations that are proposed to be added concerning the new
cause of action. (See Yetka Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) Plaintiff states the purpose of
this amendment is to reflect the fact that Defendants have since quit the
premises and Plaintiff now only seeks monetary damages in this action. (Yetka
Decl. ¶ 5(b).) Specifically, Plaintiff states that Defendants quit the
premises on August 8, 2023 and that Plaintiff has additional money claims
against Defendants which could not be raised in an Unlawful Detainer, such as
claims for damage to the Property and recording equipment which was stolen from
the Property. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that Defendants’ previous
counsel was willing to stipulate to a First Amended Complaint, but that changes
in representation for Defendants have halted that process. (Yetka Decl.
¶ 7.)
 
The Court finds the requirements
of California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) are satisfied.
Additionally, as the underlying facts are related to the original Complaint,
allowing Plaintiff to file the amended Complaint will increase the likelihood
of the case being resolved efficiently on the merits. Requests to amend initial
pleadings are to be liberally considered and Defendants have rendered no
opposition to the motion.  Additionally,
the trial in this case has not yet been set, so there would be no prejudice to Defendants
if Plaintiff is allowed to amend its Complaint at this time. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gagan H. Palrecha’s
Motion for Leave to Amend came on regularly for
hearing on July 5, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.  PLAINTIFF HAS 20 DAYS TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE
NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 5, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 