  Case Number:  21BBCV00148    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 28, 2024

MOTION
TO TRANSFER POSSESSION OF PROPERTY

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21BBCV00148

 



MP:  


Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.
  (Judgment Creditor)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Before
the Court is a motion brought by Judgment Creditor Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc. (Wells Fargo) as against
Judgment Debtor Capital Ready Mix, Inc. (Judgment Debtor). Wells Fargo seeks an
order of the Court demanding Judgment Debtor transfer property which is subject
to levy as per a writ of execution filed in this matter. Judgment Debtor has filed no opposition. 
 
On
December 3, 2021, judgment was entered in favor of Wells Fargo and against
Defendants. The judgment was for money and possession of six vehicles. On June
1, 2023, Wells Fargo obtained two writs of possession for vehicles directed to
the Los Angeles County Sheriff and the Sacramento County Sheriff respectively. Wells
Fargo now seeks an order of the Court, pursuant to C.C.P. § 699.040, to
transfer possession to the levying officer as they have been unable to recover
the vehicles. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
699.040 provides the following: 
 
(a) If a
writ of execution is issued, the judgment creditor may apply to the court ex
parte, or on noticed motion if the court so directs or a court rule so requires,
for an order directing the judgment debtor to transfer to the levying officer
either or both of the following:
 
(1)   Possession of the property sought to be levied
upon if the property is sought to be levied upon by taking it into custody.
 
(2)   Possession of documentary evidence of title to
property of or a debt owed to the judgment debtor that is sought to be levied
upon. An order pursuant to this paragraph may be served when the property or
debt is levied upon or thereafter.
 
(b) The
court may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a showing of need for
the order.
 
(c) The
order shall be personally served on the judgment debtor and shall contain a
notice to the judgment debtor that failure to comply with the order may subject
the judgment debtor to arrest and punishment for contempt of court.
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Wells
Fargo requests the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
 
A.   
The judgment
entered on December 3, 2021
 
B.   
The writ
of Possession issued on June 1, 2023, directed to the Los Angeles County
Sheriff. 
 
C.   
The writ
of Possession issued on June 1, 2023, directed to the Sacramento County
Sheriff.
 
Given the
above documents are all records of the Court made in the course of this
litigation, the Court finds judicial notice is appropriate pursuant to Evidence
Code § 452. As such, Wells Fargo’s request is GRANTED. 
 
Discussion

 
The Court
has concerns about the validity of the writ of execution given the time that
has passed since its issuance. On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff obtained a writ of
execution for both Los Angeles County Sheriff and the Sacramento County Sheriff.
(RJN Exhs. B & C.) On September 7, 2023, the writ for Sacramento County was
returned to the Court, reflecting that no property was levied. In contrast, it
does not appear that the writ for Los Angeles County was ever returned.
 
The Court
believes that the writ of execution has expired pursuant to C.C.P. § 699.560, which
provides: 
 
(a)
Except as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c), the writ expires and the
levying officer to whom the writ of execution is delivered shall return the
writ to the court, or store the writ as provided in Section 263.6, and file a
return with the court reporting the levying officer's actions and an accounting
of amounts collected, and costs incurred, at the earliest of the following
times:
 
(1)   Two years from the date of issuance of the writ,
unless paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 706.022 is applicable.
 
(2)   Promptly after all of the duties under the writ
are performed.
 
(3)   When return is requested in writing by the
judgment creditor.
 
(4)   If no levy takes place under the writ within 180
days after its issuance, promptly after the expiration of the 180-day period.
 
(5)   Upon expiration of the time for enforcement of
the money judgment.
 
The Court finds that C.C.P.
§ 699.560(a)(4) applies to Wells Fargo’s writ as to the Los Angeles County
Sheriff. By Wells Fargo’s submissions, it appears no property was levied in
accordance with the writ within 180 days of its issuance. (See Nolan Decl.
¶ 7.)  As such, the writ has expired
and cannot be the basis for a motion pursuant to C.C.P. § 699.040. 
 
Accordingly, Wells Fargo’s
motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Wells Fargo Equipment
Finance, Inc.’s Motion to Transfer Possession came on
regularly for hearing on June 28, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO ORDER TRANSFER OF PROPERTY POSSESSION
IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, WELLS FARGO TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 28, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 