  Case Number:  23AHCV01335    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINTDefendants Barber and Total Access Elevator Corporation seek leave to file a cross-complaint for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief against Vibhay Prasad, M.D., The Regents of the University of California, and Los Robles Regional Medical Center.Plaintiffs Yvonne Hatherill, Mikayla Hatherill, and Morgan Hatherill filed a motor vehicle negligence and wrongful death complaint, as well as a professional negligence complaint, alleging that due to a six-vehicle automobile collision in December 2021, their late husband and father, Mark Andrew Hatherill, underwent lumbar spine surgery and later suffered complications that led to his death.  The Hatherhill family sued various defendants including medical providers and other drivers, alleging professional negligence, wrongful death, and negligent infliction of emotional distress.  The defendants in the case have also filed cross-complaints against each other.Tentative RulingDefendants’ motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to file the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days.Legal AuthorityCode of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides that a party against whom a cause of action has been asserted may file a cross-complaint setting forth:  “(b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10(b).)  A party shall obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint if it is not concurrently filed with the answer or at any time before the court sets a trial date.  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10(c).) If a cross-complaint is compulsory, leave must be granted as long as the cross-complainant is acting in good faith, so as to avoid forfeiture of the causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §426.50; See Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 101 [concluding that the late filing of the motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint absent some evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion].)  To be considered a compulsory cross-complaint, the related cause of action must have existed at the time defendant served its answer to the complaint.  (Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide (2008), Civil Procedure Before Trial §6:516; see also Crocker Nat’l Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)  If the cross-complaint is not compulsory, but rather is permissive, the Court has sole discretion whether to grant or deny leave.  (Id.)AnalysisThe Court notes Defendants’ motion for leave to amend does not strictly comply with the rules because the proposed cross-complaint was not attached to the motion papers, but rather was filed as an exhibit to defense counsel’s declaration in Defendants’ reply papers.  The Court exercises discretion in considering the proposed cross-complaint from the reply papers rather than the moving papers. In considering the motion on its merits, Defendants seek leave to file a cross-complaint for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief against Vibhay Prasad, M.D., The Regents of the University of California, and Los Robles Regional Medical Center.  The motion argues that the cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction or occurrence as Plaintiffs’ claims, and granting leave to file the cross-complaint would avoid a multiplicity of suits and save time and resources. There are three oppositions, filed by the three proposed cross-defendants.  Their argument in common is that the cross-complaint would be permissive and not compulsory.  The Court agrees that the proposed cross-complaint would be permissive as the cross-complaint is argued to be based on the motor vehicle accident underlying this case.  However, the oppositions have not shown that an opposing party would be prejudiced by the filing of a cross-complaint at this stage.  There is also no trial date currently set.  The Court finds judicial economy would be served by granting Defendants leave to assert their indemnity claims against Prasad, the Regents, and Los Robles.  (See P&D Consultants, Inc. v. City of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345 [“Courts must apply a policy of liberality in permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including during trial, when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown.”])  Defendants’ motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is granted.  Defendants are ordered to file the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days.Moving Party is to give notice.