 Case Number:  24LBCV01522    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  S25 Tentative RulingThe Court finds that the parties have not adequately engaged in a meaningful meet and confer. The Court is continuing the motion to March 7, 2025. The Court orders the parties to meet and confer and use the recent discovery guidelines set forth in CCP Section 871.6(h) which requires a defendant or manufacturer to provide the following:1. Copy of or access to a version of the owner’s manual for a motor vehicle of the same make, model, and year.2. Any warranties issued in conjunction with the sale of the motor vehicle.3. Sample brochures published for the motor vehicle.4. The motor vehicles original invoice, if any, to the selling dealer.5. Sales or lease agreement, if the manufacturer is in possession.6. Motor vehicle information reports, including build documentation, component information, and delivery details.7. Entire warranty transaction history for the motor vehicle.8. Listing of required field actions applicable to the motor vehicle.9. Published technical service bulletins (TSBs) for the same make, model, and year reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.10. Published information service bulletins (ISBs) for the same make, model, and year reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.11. Records relating to communications between the manufacturer or dealership and the owner or lessee of the motor vehicle, including those related to repair orders or claims involving the motor vehicle.12. Warranty policies and procedure manuals.13. Service manuals reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.14. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, all call recordings of pre-suit communications with the consumer available at the time of service of the complaint.15. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, the manufacturers written statement of policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for restitution or replacement pursuant to Lemon Law claims.16. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, any nonprivileged, prelitigation evaluation.17. Any warranty extensions or modifications issued by the manufacturer on the motor vehicle.”The parties are thus ordered to meet and confer no later than February 21, 2025. A joint status report by the parties identifying any remaining outstanding discovery must be filed no later than March 4, 2025.Case Management Conference set for January 16, 2025 is advanced and vacated. Case Management Conference continued to February 6, 2025 in conjunction with Defendant’s Demurrer/Motion to Strike.