 Case Number:  23SMCV05901    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is the continued hearing of defendant Horne’s motion to
compel arbitration.  To recap briefly,
Horne is an attorney retained by plaintiff. 
The retainer agreement has an arbitration clause in it that, on its
face, is broad enough to encompass the instant case.  Horne provided advice as to how to structure
a compensation package designed to allow plaintiff to compensate certain
employees for the equity that had been promised to them, but which was not
provided until the price of the stock had gone up.  The structure was to provide options with a
strike price at market on the day of issuance and a bonus to compensate for the
rise in price between the date of the promise and the date the options were
given.  The structure was provided to the
client in 2019.  In 2021, the client
retained an accounting firm, HCVT, and finalized the plan.  Unfortunately, the plan turned out to have
negative tax consequences as drafted, leading plaintiff to sue Horne and HCVT
for the additional tax.  HCVT’s contract apparently
does not have an arbitration clause in it. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion to compel arbitration
is that its claim for malpractice is closely related to its claim against HCVT
such that it runs the real risk of inconsistent determinations.  In other words, plaintiff fears that Horne
will argue to the arbitrator that the fault lies completely (or almost
completely) with HCVT, and that Horne committed no malpractice while HCVT will
argue to the jury that the fault was wholly or largely that of Horne.  If that were to happen, plaintiff worries, it
would recover little or nothing in the arbitration and nothing or at least only
a partial recovery at trial as each defendant pointed the finger at the
other.  If the cases are tried together,
one fact-finder would make the determination as to who is liable for what and
it would (presumably) be consistent. 
Thus, plaintiff contends, under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
the court can and should decline to enforce Horne’s arbitration agreement.  (Abaya v. Spanish Ranch I, L.P. 92010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1490.)  In response,
Horne contends that its retainer agreement expressly disclaimed that it was
providing any tax advice—suggesting that the client retain a separate tax
professional although offering to consult with such person—and thus Horne could
not be liable for a tax problem. 
Further, Horne contends that in fact he did not give any tax
advice.  The bulk of his work apparently
ended in 2019—before HCVT was hired—and thus there is no overlap of
liability.  Horne concedes that he was
involved in two calls with the client and HCVT and engaged in some email
exchanges (in which he never gave tax advice), but, he says, his role was
trivial in that regard and he in fact said or did nothing that had anything to
do with tax.  That, he claims, is not
enough to trigger section 1281.2.
 
The court believes that, while Horne has made a good
showing, it ultimately is not enough.  As
the court has said in prior discussions, the question is whether (to quote the
statute) Horne’s work and HCVT’s work constituted “the same transaction or
series of transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common question of law or fact.” 
Plaintiff has at least shown that Horne and HCVT had some direct interaction
regarding the transaction in question. 
The court requested additional evidence on this subject and has received
it.  A review of that evidence presents
(for want of a better phrase) a triable issue of fact as to just how closely
related Horne’s work and that of HCVT are and whether there is really the
possibility of conflicting rulings.  The
court’s rule of thumb is that if the court cannot really say for sure (or with
a strong degree of confidence at least) that there will be no conflicting
rulings, the statute applies and the better course is to have the matters tried
together.  In coming to this conclusion,
and without having found any case law that seems to the court to compel an
answer, the court looks to what animates the policies favoring arbitrations and
avoiding conflicting rulings and the consequences of the risk of error.  The policy favoring arbitrations is
procedural (in the non-technical sense). 
That is, all of Horne’s legal and factual arguments can be presented
both at arbitration and in a courtroom. 
The law to be applied on the merits is the same.  And given that HCVT’s case would be going
forward in court anyway, even the discovery is not all that different.  There are some differences, to be sure.  The arbitration will be private—although less
so if anyone wants to confirm the award or the matter is appealed—there are
some discovery differences, there is a bit less formality to arbitration,
arbitrations are more convenient because the arbitrator’s docket is more
party-friendly for things like scheduling than is the court’s calendar, and of
course there is more finality to the arbitration because the award is generally
not subject to review.  Nor is it lost on
the court that the arbitrator will be a lawyer or retired judge and the jury
will be 12 people made up from the community and without legal training.  But the key is that the law and the
substantive rights are largely the same; it is only the procedure that
differs.  There is no reason to believe
that Horne won’t get a fair trial in a courtroom.  On the other hand, NextHome’s risk is
substantive.  If there are inconsistent
rulings, NextHome could be whipsawed into an inadequate recovery.  Both fact-finders could conclude that
NextHome is entitled to be made whole, but nonetheless NextHome might not be
made whole because the fact-finders differ on who (or which defendant) is truly
responsible.  As between those two risks,
the risk of substantive prejudice outweighs the risk of procedural
differences.  And while the court is well
aware of the policy favoring arbitrations, the Legislature has crafted the
exception discussed here, which undermines that policy somewhat in this
particular factual context.
 
In short, while the court believes that the question is a
close one, the court finds that the law and facts tilt in NextHome’s
favor.  The motion is, therefore, DENIED.
 