 Case Number:  23SMCV02045    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to set aside a default.  Or, more precisely, plaintiffs contend that
they mistakenly dismissed the case against defendant and seek to have the
dismissal vacated.  Plaintiffs argue that
there were two related (in the lay sense) cases with different defendants and
that they intended to dismiss one of them but not both.  However, what they filed actually dismissed
all the cases against everyone.  They
attribute the error to excusable neglect, noting that they are
self-represented.  The case involves a
claim by plaintiffs that they had a contract to buy real estate from the
defendant.  The sale did not go through
and defendant sold the property to others. 
It is the new buyers—who would be bona fide purchasers for
value—that plaintiffs meant to dismiss and who are the defendants in the other
case, not the sellers, who are the defendants here.  Rather, plaintiff asserts that it was merely
doing some housekeeping to effectuate relating the cases (one against defendant
here and the other against the new buyers) and nothing more.
 
Initially, the court was inclined to grant the motion, but
the opposition changed the court’s mind. 
According to the evidence in opposition, which included declarations,
plaintiffs called defense counsel and stated that they had a change of heart
and wanted to dismiss the action and never should have sued.  The court notes that defense counsel in the
two cases were different.  Thus, by calling
counsel in the instant case, plaintiff was not calling counsel for the other
buyers.  According to the declaration,
plaintiffs stated that they had reconsidered whether to sue and decided against
it.  Because they were lay individuals,
they asked defense counsel to prepare the dismissal paperwork for plaintiffs’
signatures.  Defense counsel did just
that and gave it to plaintiffs, requesting that they sign and file it, which
they did.  Defense counsel confirmed that
the papers had been sent and plaintiff confirmed that it was filed on January
8, 2024.  In reading the evidence—and the
court notes that there was no reply filed—it appears that plaintiffs’ decision
was not based on excusable neglect but rather based on a change of heart.  In that sense, it was no mistake at all.  If it was done on purpose, then this is not
within the statute, and that is how the court views it.
 
That is bolstered by the late-filed opposition of defendants
in the related case, who seem to be opposing a motion to vacate a dismissal of
that action.  It appears from that
declaration that plaintiffs here were talking to two sets of lawyers and
stating that they wanted to dismiss—one for each case.  That makes it well-nigh impossible to believe
that this was a mistake.  However, the
court is not relying on the late-filed opposition in its decision.
 
Because the decision to dismiss defendants was, in the
court’s view, deliberate, the dismissal will stand.  The motion is DENIED.
 