  Case Number:  24NNCV02064    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date:  08/15/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.¿24NNCV02064
Trial Date:  Unset
Case Name: ANDREH HAKOOPIAN, an individual; YEROS
HAKOPIAN, an individual; and NVART ISSAIAN, an individual; v. ROSETTE V.
HARATOONIAN, an individual; THE WESTERN PRELACY OF THE ARMENIAN APOSTOLIC
CHURCH OF AMERICA; 
 
[2 - TENTATIVE RULINGS ON¿DEFENDANTS’
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION]¿ 
 
 
MOTION 1
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant
S.I.G. Property Management moves under CCP § 425.16, et seq. to strike the
sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress from
Plaintiffs’ Complaint as a strategic lawsuit against public participation.
Defendant
requests they recover from Plaintiffs their attorney’s fees and costs incurred
in defending this action, pursuant to CCP § 425.16, which mandates that the
prevailing party shall recover such fees.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party:  Defendant, S.I.G. Property Management
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Andreh Hakoopian, Yeros Hakopian, and Nvart Issaian 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs,
Andreh Hakoopian, Yeros Hakopian, and Nvart Issaian, allege they had been
tenants at the subject property since February 1, 2007 until September 30,
2023. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Haratoonian was the owner,
landlord, and manager of the subject property when Plaintiffs initially rented
the unit. (Compl. ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiffs allege that at some point during their
tenancy, Defendant The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of
America (Western Prelacy) became owner and landlord of the apartment complex.
(Compl. ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant S.I.G. Property
Management, dba, operating under Michael Shaar Inc. (S.I.G. Management) became
the management company responsible for leasing and maintaining the subject
property on behalf of Western Prelacy. (Compl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiffs allege they paid all rent to Defendant
Haratoonian. (Compl. ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs allege they are unaware when Defendant
Western Prelacy became owner and landlord of the apartment complex since
Haratoonian continued to claim that she was the owner, landlord, and manager of
the complex. (Compl. ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Haratoonian
intentionally interfered with Plaintiffs receiving notices from Defendant S.I.G.
Management and Defendant Western Prelacy. (Compl. ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs
allege that Western Prelacy was aware or should have been aware that
Haratoonian was continuing to collect rent because Plaintiffs observed
occasions that Haratoonian would interfere with the duties S.I.G. Management
was supposed to perform. (Compl. ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege that Western Prelacy
and S.I.G. Management failed to take measures to make sure Defendant
Haratoonian was not interfering in their managerial duties such as maintaining
and collecting rent from tenants. (Compl. ¶ 25.)
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
A
cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in
furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United
States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public
issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court
determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. (CCP §425.16(b)(1).)
Consideration of a § 425.16 motion to strike involves
a two-step process. 
“First, the court decides whether the defendant has
made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity. The moving defendant’s burden is to demonstrate that
the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of
the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the Unites States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue,’ as defined in the
statutes. (§425.16 subd. (b)(1). If the court finds such a showing has been
made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability
of prevailing on the claim.” (Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
Under CCP § 425.16(e), an act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue includes:
(1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(2) any written or
oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration
or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, 
(3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or 
(4) any other
conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition
or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or
an issue of public interest.
 
(CCP §425.16(e).)
 
ANALYSIS
Sixth Cause of
Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
S.I.G. Management argues that the sixth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress should be
stricken because it is directly solely at Defendant’s protected First Amendment
right to file an unlawful detainer case and that the sixth cause of action does
not allege any wrongful conduct beyond the filing of Defendant’s unlawful
detainer complaint.
 
S.I.G. Management points the Court to the
allegations in ¶¶ 63 and 64 of the Complaint which allege:
 
63. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s,
conduct was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have
known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from
PLAINTIFFS because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against
PLAINTIFFS, they were informed of such and continued to pursue with the
eviction proceedings. 
 
64. Defendant’s, HARATOONIAN’s, conduct
was outrageous since Defendant, HARATOONIAN, knew or should have known that if
the rent paid by PLAINTIFF is not received by its rightful owner, that the
owner, Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, would proceed with evicting PLAINTIFFS.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 63-64.)
 
S.I.G. Management then cites to Birkner
v. Lam, which states in relevant part:
 
The prosecution of an unlawful detainer
action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning of section
425.16. (See Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31
Cal.4th 728, 734–735, 3 Cal.Rptr.3d 636, 74 P.3d 737; Navellier, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 90, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 530, 52 P.3d 703, Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d 825.) “The constitutional right
to petition ... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise
seeking administrative action.” (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19, 43 Cal.Rptr.2d 350; California Motor Transport v.
Trucking Unlimited (1972) 404 U.S. 508, 510, 92 S.Ct. 609, 30 L.Ed.2d
642[“[t]he right of access to the courts is indeed but one aspect of the right
to petition”].)
 
(Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
275, 281 (Birkner).)
 
In Reply, Defendant continues to argue
that the sixth cause of action “makes a direct allegation that the
"outrageous conduct" by The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic
Church of America "the Church" was the Church's protected First
Amendment right to file the underlying Unlawful Detainer case.” (Reply p. 2.)
 
Preliminary Matter
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court
concedes that if Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action was directly solely at
Defendant’s protected First Amendment right to file an unlawful detainer
action, then under Birkner Defendant would have an availing argument. 
 
However, the Court does not find
Defendant’s argument availing for the reasons explained below.
 
Paragraphs 63-64
Defendant cited to ¶¶ 63-64 of the
Complaint to argue that Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action is directed at the
filing of an unlawful detainer action. 
 
Presumably, Defendant cites to ¶¶ 63-64
because those paragraphs reference eviction proceedings. 
 
A problem with this is that ¶¶ 63-64
pertain to allegations concerning Defendants Western Prelacy and Haratoonian—not
S.I.G. Management. 
 
The moving Defendant here is S.I.G.
Management, not Western Prelacy or Haratoonian.
 
To the extent that ¶¶ 63-64 mention the
words “eviction proceedings,” those allegations are not—as far as the Court can
tell—directed at moving Defendant, S.I.G. Management.
 
Therefore, for clarity, the Court will
cite the entirety of the allegations in the sixth cause of action:
 
62. PLAINTIFFS reallege and incorporate by
reference every allegation of paragraphs 1 to 61 as though fully set forth in
this paragraph. 
 
63. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s,
conduct was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have
known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from
PLAINTIFFS because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against
PLAINTIFFS, they were informed of such and continued to pursue with the
eviction proceedings. 
 
64. Defendant’s, HARATOONIAN’s, conduct
was outrageous since Defendant, HARATOONIAN, knew or should have known that if
the rent paid by PLAINTIFF is not received by its rightful owner, that the
owner, Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, would proceed with evicting PLAINTIFFS. 
 
65. Defendant’s, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT’s, conduct was outrageous Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
knew or should have known that the rent payments paid by PLAINTIFFS were going
to the wrong person and/or they did not take any reasonable action to ensure
PLAINTIFFS were aware that rent payments had to be sent to them because they
knew or should have known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was interfering with
them managing and maintaining the PROPERTY. 
 
66. The Defendants acted with reckless
disregard of the probability that PLAINTIFFS would suffer emotional distress,
knowing that PLAINTIFFS their conduct would harm them. 
 
67. The Defendant’s conducts were a
substantial factor in causing PLAINTIFFS’ severe emotional distress.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 62-67.)
 
Although Defendant cited to the
allegations in ¶¶ 63-64 of the Complaint as being the allegations directed at
moving Defendant, the allegations directed at moving Defendant, here S.I.G.
Management, are located in ¶ 65, not ¶¶ 63-64.
 
The allegations in ¶ 65 of the Complaint
make no reference to eviction proceedings, or any protected activity. 
 
“The defendant's first-step burden is to
identify the activity each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that
activity is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Wilson v. Cable News
Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884.)
 
Here, Defendant, S.I.G. Management, has
not identified any protected activity alleged against S.I.G. Management in the
sixth cause of action. The Court also notes that page 2 of the Reply states
that Plaintiff  “makes a direct
allegation that the ‘outrageous conduct’ by The Western Prelacy of the Armenian
Apostolic Church of America ‘the Church’ was the Church's protected First
Amendment right to file the underlying Unlawful Detainer case.” (Reply p. 2.) 
 
This makes it appear as if the Reply is stating
that Western Prelacy was the entity to file the unlawful detainer action, and
not moving Defendant, S.I.G. Management.
 
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1
The Court will hear argument.

 
MOTION 2
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant,
The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America (Western
Prelacy), moves under CCP § 425.16, et seq. to strike the sixth cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress from Plaintiffs’ Complaint as
a strategic lawsuit against public participation.
Defendant
requests they recover from Plaintiffs their attorney’s fees and costs incurred
in defending this action, pursuant to CCP § 425.16, which mandates that the
prevailing party shall recover such fees.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party:  Defendant, Western Prelacy (Defendant or
Western Prelacy)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Andreh Hakoopian, Yeros Hakopian, and Nvart Issaian 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
 
BACKGROUND & LEGAL STANDARD
See
Motion 1.
 
ANALYSIS
Sixth Cause of
Action – Intentional 
Moving Defendant, Western
Prelacy, argues that the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress should be stricken because it is directly solely at
Defendant’s protected First Amendment right to file an unlawful detainer case
and that the sixth cause of action does not allege any wrongful conduct beyond
the filing of Defendant’s unlawful detainer complaint.
 
Western Prelacy
points the Court to the allegations in ¶¶ 63 and 64 of the Complaint which
allege:
 
63. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s, conduct was outrageous
since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have known that Defendant,
HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from PLAINTIFFS because when
they brought the unlawful detainer action against PLAINTIFFS, they were
informed of such and continued to pursue with the eviction proceedings. 

 
64. Defendant’s,
HARATOONIAN’s, conduct was outrageous since Defendant, HARATOONIAN, knew or
should have known that if the rent paid by PLAINTIFF is not received by its
rightful owner, that the owner, Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, would proceed with
evicting PLAINTIFFS.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 63-64.)
 
Western Prelacy
then cites to Birkner v. Lam which states in relevant part:
 
The prosecution of
an unlawful detainer action indisputably is protected activity within the
meaning of section 425.16. (See Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003)
31 Cal.4th 728, 734–735, 3 Cal.Rptr.3d 636, 74 P.3d 737; Navellier,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 90, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 530, 52 P.3d 703, Chavez
v. Mendoza (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d
825.) “The constitutional right to petition ... includes the basic act of
filing litigation or otherwise seeking administrative action.” (Ludwig
v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19, 43 Cal.Rptr.2d
350; California Motor Transport v. Trucking Unlimited (1972)
404 U.S. 508, 510, 92 S.Ct. 609, 30 L.Ed.2d 642[“[t]he right of access to the
courts is indeed but one aspect of the right to petition”].)
 
(Birkner v. Lam
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275, 281 (Birkner).)
 
In Reply,
Defendant continues to argue that the sixth cause of action “makes a direct
allegation that the "outrageous conduct" by The Western Prelacy of
the Armenian Apostolic Church of America "the Church" was the
Church's protected First Amendment right to file the underlying Unlawful
Detainer case.” (Reply p. 2.)

 
Preliminary Matter
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court
concedes that if Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action was directly solely at
Defendant’s protected First Amendment right to file an unlawful detainer
action, then under Birkner Defendant would have an availing argument.
However, the Court does not find Defendant’s argument availing for the reasons
explained below.
 
Paragraph 63


The allegations directed at Defendant
Western Prelacy are found at ¶ 63 in the Complaint:
 
Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s, conduct
was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have known that
Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from PLAINTIFFS
because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against PLAINTIFFS, they
were informed of such and continued to pursue with the eviction proceedings. 
 
(Compl. ¶ 63.)
 
“To determine whether a claim arises from
protected activity, courts must “consider the elements of the challenged claim
and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form
the basis for liability.” (Id. at p. 1063, 217 Cal.Rptr.3d 130, 393
P.3d 905.) Courts then must evaluate whether the defendant has shown any of
these actions fall within one or more of the four categories of “ ‘act[s]’ ”
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019)
7 Cal.5th 871, 884.)
 
The case of Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. describes the elements of
an IIED claim:
“ ‘ “[T]o state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ [Citation.] ‘
“Conduct, to be ‘ “outrageous” ’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” ’ [Citation.] In order to
avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with ‘great[ ] specificity’
the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community. [Citation.]” (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832, 166 Cal.Rptr.3d 242 (Vasquez ).)
(Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-61.)
As indicated on page 2 of the Reply, Defendant
argues that the outrageous conduct alleged against Western Prelacy is the filing
of the underlying unlawful detainer case.
 
The Court does not find this argument
availing because it does not appear as if the Complaint alleges that the
outrageous conduct is the filing of the unlawful detainer case.
 
The allegations for the sixth cause of
action start at ¶ 62 of the Complaint. Paragraph 62 incorporates the prior
allegations of the Complaint into the sixth cause of action. When reading the
exact words of ¶ 63, the “conduct” is not explicitly specified. In fact, the
Complaint simply states, “Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s, conduct was
outrageous since Defendant…” (Compl. ¶ 63.)
 
Although the “conduct” is not explicitly specified,
Defendant Western Prelacy did not file a demurrer on grounds of uncertainty, nor
a demurrer on failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,
so that Defendant could better understand what the alleged “conduct” was that
Plaintiffs are alleging to be the basis for the IIED claim.
 
Simply based on ¶ 63 not explicitly
mentioning what the “conduct” even is, Defendant did not meet its burden in
demonstrating that the act or acts of which Plaintiffs complain arise from
protected activity. 
 
Further, although the Complaint does not
explicitly state what the alleged “conduct” is that forms the basis of
Plaintiff’s IIED claim, upon the Court’s reading of the Complaint as a whole, in
context with ¶ 63, it appears as if Plaintiffs are alleging that the “conduct”
of the sixth cause of action arises from Western Prelacy knowing that the
former owner Haratoonian was still collecting rent despite Haratoonian not
being the owner. [See Compl. ¶¶ 23 &25.]
 
“PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe that
Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, was aware or should have been aware that Defendant,
HARATOONIAN, was continuing to collect rent because PLAINTIFFS observed
occasions that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, would interfere with the duties
Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, was supposed to perform.” (Compl. ¶ 23.)
 
“Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, and
Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, failed to take any measures to make sure
Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was not interfering in their managerial duties, such as
maintaining and collecting rent from tenants.” (Compl. ¶ 25.)
 
Defendant appears to believe that ¶ 63’s
reference to “eviction proceedings” means that Plaintiffs’ IIED claim arises
from Western Prelacy’s filing of an unlawful detainer action.
 
As stated in ¶ 63 of the Complaint:
 
Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s, conduct
was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have known that
Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from PLAINTIFFS
because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against PLAINTIFFS, they
were informed of such and continued to pursue with the eviction proceedings. 
 
(Compl. ¶ 63.)
 
While it is true that ¶ 63 mentions the
unlawful detainer action and eviction proceedings, it does not appear that ¶ 63
is alleging the outrageous conduct to be the filing of the unlawful detainer
action or continuing eviction proceedings. 
 
Although the defendant bears the initial burden, a
cause of action does not “arise from” protected activity simply because it is
filed after protected activity took place. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002)
29 Cal.4th 69, 76-77.) Nor does the fact “[t]hat a cause of action arguably may
have been triggered by protected activity” necessarily entail that it arises
from such activity. (Id. at 78.) The trial court must instead focus on
the substance of plaintiff’s lawsuit in analyzing the first prong of a special
motion to strike. (Scott v. Metabolife Internat, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 404, 413-414.) “The defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause
of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech.” (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter &
Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 670.) “[I]t is the principal thrust
or gravamen of the plaintiff’s cause of action that determines whether the
anti-SLAPP statute applies (citation), and when the allegations referring to an
arguably protected activity are only incidental to a cause of action based
essentially on non-protective activity, collateral allusions to protected
activity should not subject the cause of action to the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Martinez
v. Metabolife Internat, Inc., (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188.)
“In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is
met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (§425.16 (b); City
of Cotati, supra at 79.)
TENTATIVE RULING FOR MOTION 2
Moving Defendant, Western Prelacy, argues
that the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
should be stricken because it is directly solely at Defendant’s protected First
Amendment right to file an unlawful detainer case and that the sixth cause of
action does not allege any wrongful conduct beyond the filing of Defendant’s
unlawful detainer complaint.
 
Western Prelacy points the Court to the
allegations ¶¶ 63 of the Complaint which allege:
 
63. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s,
conduct was outrageous since Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, knew or should have
known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, had been collecting the rent payments from
PLAINTIFFS because when they brought the unlawful detainer action against
PLAINTIFFS, they were informed of such and continued to pursue with the
eviction proceedings. 
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 63.)
 
Western Prelacy then cites to Birkner
v. Lam which states in relevant part:
 
The prosecution of an unlawful detainer
action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning of section
425.16. (See Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31
Cal.4th 728, 734–735, 3 Cal.Rptr.3d 636, 74 P.3d 737; Navellier, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 90, 124 Cal.Rptr.2d 530, 52 P.3d 703, Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d 825.) “The constitutional right
to petition ... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise
seeking administrative action.” (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19, 43 Cal.Rptr.2d 350; California Motor Transport v.
Trucking Unlimited (1972) 404 U.S. 508, 510, 92 S.Ct. 609, 30 L.Ed.2d
642[“[t]he right of access to the courts is indeed but one aspect of the right
to petition”].)
 
(Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 275, 281 (Birkner).)
 
In Reply, Defendant continues to argue
that the sixth cause of action “makes a direct allegation that the
"outrageous conduct" by The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic
Church of America "the Church" was the Church's protected First
Amendment right to file the underlying Unlawful Detainer case.” (Reply p. 2.)
 
The Opposition argues that the outrageous
conduct engaged in by Defendant was the collection of rent by former owner
Haratoonian and her co-Defendants knowingly allowing her to collect such rent.
 
Here, the Court finds moving Defendant’s
argument availing. 
 
As a preliminary matter, it is not
entirely clear what “conduct” Plaintiffs are basing their IIED claim off of. 
 
Paragraph 63 appears to allege conduct by
Haratoonian, for collecting rent payments, which is not relevant here because
moving Defendant is not Haratoonian. 
 
However, the other “conduct” specified in ¶
63 that Plaintiffs are alleging to be outrageous is Western Prelacy pursuing
eviction proceedings despite knowing that Haratoonian had been collecting rent
payments. Or to phrase it differently, Plaintiffs are attacking the Defendant’s
prosecution of an unlawful detainer action. “The prosecution of an unlawful
detainer action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning of
section 425.16.” (Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275, 281.)
 
Although the Opposition argues that the outrageous
conduct complained of is: (1) Haratoonian fraudulently collecting rent from the
Plaintiffs even though she no longer owned the building, and (2) Western
Prelacy and S.I.G. Management knowingly allowing and facilitating Haratoonian’s
fraudulent conduct, the Complaint goes farther than what Plaintiffs argue in
their Opposition. The Complaint at ¶ 63 attacks Defendant for continuing with
eviction proceedings despite knowing that Haratoonian was collecting rent.
 
Therefore, Defendant met its initial
burden in demonstrating that the first cause of action arises from protected
activity. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs do not even
attempt to show a probability that they will prevail on the merits.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike the sixth
cause of action as directed against Western Prelacy is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant argues that leave to amend
should not be granted. Defendant cites to Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. which
held that that allowing a SLAPP plaintiff leave to amend the complaint once the
trial court finds the prima facie showing has been met would completely
undermine the statute by providing the pleader a ready escape from §
425.16's quick dismissal remedy. (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1068.)
 
The Opposition does not argue for leave to
amend. 
 
Leave to amend is not granted. 
 
“Except as provided in paragraph (2), in
any action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special
motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees
and costs. If the court finds that a special motion to strike is frivolous or
is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to
Section 128.5.” (CCP § 425.16(c)(1.)
 
Defendant argues that if the Court grants
this motion, it expressly reserves the right to submit a motion for attorney’s
fees as a separately noticed motion which it may or may not choose to pursue. 
 
Here, the Court will not comment on the
issue of attorney’s fees and costs because it is not before this Court since
Defendant has admitted it may or may not choose to pursue attorney’s fees and
costs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 