 Case Number:  22SMCV02110    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 6, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02110




MOTION


Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Wayne Gretzky and Janet Gretzky




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Veera Mahajan



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Veera Mahajan
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Defendants Wayne Gretzky and Janet
Gretzky (collectively, “Defendants”) claiming they induced her to invest in a
third-party company which sells weight-loss gum by falsely claiming Mr. Gretzky
lost weight from his use of the product. 
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleges causes of action
against Defendants for fraud and negligent representation.  
 
Defendants demur to both causes of
action for failure to state a cause of action and uncertainty, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants
request judicial notice of various corporate documents for BuChew, LLC, filed
with the California Secretary of State as follows:
 
·        
Exhibit A: June 11, 2014 Articles of
Organization for BuChew, LLC
 
·        
Exhibit B: November 9, 2015 Statement of
Information for BuChew, LLC
 
·        
Exhibit C: June 29, 2016 Statement of No Change
for BuChew, LLC
 
·        
Exhibit D: May 23, 2017 Certificate of
Conversion for BuChew, LLC
 
·        
Exhibit E: March 7, 2018 Statement of
Information for BuChew, LLC
 
Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (c) permits courts to take judicial notice of “Official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States.”  
 
Official notices, statements, and
certificates made by the Secretary of State and by the Franchise Tax Board are
properly the subject of judicial notice as documents reflecting official acts
of the executive department of the State of California pursuant to Evidence
Code section 452, subdivision (c).  (Friends
of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)            However,
“materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state
agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an official act of a
legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United States or any
state of the United States.  (People
v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
 
Because the documents sought to be
judicially noticed were all prepared by BuChew, as opposed to by the Secretary
of State, the Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
testing the sufficiency of a cause of action, a court accepts “[a]s true all
material facts properly pled and matters which may be judicially noticed but
disregard contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  [A court also gives] the complaint a
reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their
context.”  (290 Division (EAT), LLC v.
City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned
up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280
[“in considering the merits of a demurrer, however, “the facts alleged in the
pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a
court must “liberally construe” the allegations of the complaint “with a view
to substantial justice between the parties.” 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether
the complaint is sufficient as against the demurrer on the ground that it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if
one consideration of all the facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled
to any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants the complaint
will be held good although the facts may not be clearly stated, or may be
intermingled with a statement of other facts irrelevant to the cause of action
shown, or although the plaintiff may demand relief to which he is not entitled
under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.    UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot
reasonably respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, Defendants do not demonstrate
that any portions of the complaint are so bad that they cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed
against them.  The Court thus declines to
sustain Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.     FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
The elements for fraudulent misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was
false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a count for negligent misrepresentation are
the same [as intentional misrepresentation] except that it does not require
knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a
person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided a chart of specific misrepresentations, when
each representation was made, who made each representation, to whom each
misrepresentation was made, where the representation was made, and specifically
what was said.  (TAC ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants
knew the misrepresentations were false when made (TAC ¶­¶ 18-19); that the
statements were made with the intent that potential investors would rely on
their statements (TAC ¶ 20) and that Plaintiff justifiably relied upon
these misrepresentations in increasing her investment in BuChew (TAC ¶¶ 21-22.)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff has failed to plead the causes of action
with requisite particularity because Plaintiff does not allege what services
she allegedly invested in BuChew; how much BuChew’s value allegedly diminished;
what profits Plaintiff expected to receive; or how the retraction of the weight
loss claim caused Plaintiff’s damages.
 
With regard to the services Plaintiff allegedly invested in BuChew, the
TAC alleges: “In addition to the loss value of her investment, Plaintiff
provided services to BuChew by personally delivering OMG and representing its
effectiveness as to various businesses, potential investors and customers
approximately 20 times.”  (TAC ¶ 24.)
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s
investment losses, the TAC alleges:
 
22.  On or about December, 2019, Plaintiff
increased her investment by an additional $10,000.00 due to Janet’s statements
to customers and numerous potential and current investors, that Wayne “lost 35
pounds in 6 to 8 weeks” as a result of “OMG gum.” Plaintiff was provided an
Investor’s Overview in February, 2019. The Overview indicated that BuChew was
going to launch a “PR push with Janet and Wayne Gretzky, plus other
celebrities.” Plaintiff considered that her investment was extremely lucrative,
based on Janet and Wayne’s endorsement and the projections. The Overview also
indicated that BuChew projected “net income” of $5,000,000 in 2019, $30,000,000
in 2020 and $50, 000,000 in 2021. Plaintiff was provided another Investor’s
Overview in May, 2019. Again, the Overview indicated that “…OMG can become a
$100M+ acquisition target within the next 2-3 years.” These statements
reinforced Plaintiff’s believe (sic) that her investment was lucrative, based
on Wayne’s endorsement and the projections. Plaintiff considered that her
investment was potentially lucrative, based on Wayne’s endorsement and the
projections. Plaintiff’s investment was equal to approximately one (1) percent
of the total investment in BuChew.
 
23. At the same
time that Wayne admitted that he misrepresented his weight loss in Fall 2020,
Shareholder Overview stated that “there is no management, no customers, no
sales distribution channels…and no money in the bank to fix any of the issues…”
With a one (1) percent share of BuChew Plaintiff projected value of the company
equated to approximately $500,000.
 
26. As a direct and
proximate result of the Defendants’ statements that Wayne “lost 35 pounds,”
Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount of $250,000.00 for the diminished value
of her investment and lost profit potential, amongst other things.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded with the requisite level of
particularity that she lost $250,000 by continuing to invest in BuChew in
reliance upon Defendants’ misrepresentations.
 
Defendants contend that they suspect these projections were made up, but
whether Plaintiff has actually incurred the damages alleged is a factual issue
to be determined at later stages of the litigation.  For purposes of demurrer, Plaintiff has
pleaded damages with requisite particularity.
 
Defendants similarly argue that Plaintiff has not factually supported her
contention that the diminished value in BuChew was caused by Defendant’s
admission in August 2020 that Mr. Gretzky did not actually lose weight from
chewing BuChew gum, as previously asserted. 
The Court disagrees.  
 
Plaintiff has plausibly alleged that the value of BuChew increased as a
result of Defendants’ public misrepresentations about Mr. Gretzky’s weight loss
from using the product and public endorsements of the product, and that when
these statements were revealed to be false, the value similarly diminished.  Whether BuChew’s value had already diminished
by the time of Mr. Gretzky’s admission, as Defendants contend, is a factual
issue to be determined at later stages of the litigation through discovery.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants
to file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint on or before December 27, 2023.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  December 6, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court