 Case Number:  23SMCV03800    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 6, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03800




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant The Regents of the University of California




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Angela Shalome Streat Wilson



 
MOTIONS
 
Defendant The Regents of the University of California (“Defendant”)
demurs to the first cause of action alleged in Plaintiff Angela Shalome Streat
Wilson’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint for Elder Abuse because Plaintiff fails to
state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(e).  Defendant also moves to strike the claims
for punitive damages, treble damage, and attorneys’ fees.  
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies to the
oppositions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
First Cause of Action – Elder Abuse
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action because Plaintiff fails to plead a
cause of action for elder abuse with the requisite particularity.  
 
The Elder Abuse Act defines
“Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult” as 
 
(1)
Physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment
with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering. 
 
(2) The
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering. 

 
(3)
Financial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.
 
(Welf. & Inst., § 15610.07, subd. (a).)
 
Under the Elder Abuse Act,
“neglect” means “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or
custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise” and includes: “(1) Failure
to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or
shelter.  (2) Failure to provide medical
care for physical and mental health needs [….] (3) Failure to protect from
health and safety hazards [….]”  (Welf.
& Inst., § 15610.57.)  “[T]he facts
constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect
and the injury must be pleaded with particularity.”  (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407 (hereafter Carter).)
 
To prevail on a claim for
neglect under the Elder Abuse Act, “The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately
prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant:
(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent
adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of
conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or
her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to
meet the elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that
injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the
plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of
the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness).”  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp.
406–407 [citations omitted].)  “The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” 
(Id. at p. 407.)
 
With regard to the first element, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
14. That DEFENDANTS were to provide “care or
services” to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON and were to be “care custodians” of
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON and in a trust and fiduciary relationship with
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON. That the DEFENDANTS provided “care or services”
to dependent adults and the elderly, including ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON,
and housed dependent adults and the elderly, including the ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON.
 
17. ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON had recently
suffered a fall and broken elbow resulting in an infection in her right arm.
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON was admitted to the HOSPITAL on or about July 15,
2023 to receive IV antibiotics until August 25, 2023 when she could then return
to Laurel Park to prepare for surgery on her right arm. Upon admission to the
HOSPITAL, ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON was schizophrenic, unable to care for
herself and had a history of elopement.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 14, 17.)  
 
            With regard to the second element, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
18. Furthermore, because of her admitting
conditions, the DEFENDANTS further knew that she was at risk for elopement and
had cognitive issues which affected her decision making but was still capable
of ambulating thereby making vigilant supervision and a code alert bracelet
critical to her safety. All these facts were well known to the DEFENDANTS. And
in fact, these real and present dangers were the reasons why ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON was admitted to the FACILITY.
 
(Complaint
¶ 18.)
 
            As for the third element, with
regard to denying Plaintiff treatment, Plaintiff alleges:
 
20. In doing the acts more specifically alleged
herein, and without limiting the generality of that to be adduced through
discovery and according to proof at time of trial, the HOSPITAL wrongfully
withheld from ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON, required care which included, and
without limiting the generality of the foregoing and according to proof at time
of trial:
 
a. Wrongfully withholding from ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON required care in the form special care and assistance including
24-hour supervision, assistance and monitoring, the provision of safety and
assistance devices to prevent accidents, assistance and monitoring with other
activities of daily living, and the implementation of interventions to prevent
elopement; 
 
b. Wrongfully withholding from ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON required care by failing to timely, accurately and properly
create Plans of Care so as to provide assistance to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON; 
 
c. Wrongfully withholding from ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON required care by failing to timely, accurately and properly
implement Plans of Care so as to provide assistance to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON so as to prevent her from eloping; 
 
d. By wrongfully withholding required timely and
accurate monitoring of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON progress thereby failing to
timely and accurately record medical and nursing observations of ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON so that physicians could, and would, adopt and implement proper
and required interventions to protect ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON; 
 
e. By wrongfully withholding the provision of
nursing services to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON which were organized, staffed
and equipped to meet the needs of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON as required by
22 Code of Regulations §70211, thereby causing injury to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON as alleged herein; 
 
f. By wrongfully withholding the required nurse
staff development programs to those nurses who provided services to ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON on behalf of the HOSPITAL as required by 22 Code of
Regulations §70214, thereby causing injury to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON as
alleged herein; 
 
g. By wrongfully withholding the provision of
nursing services to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON in accordance with Nursing
Service Policies and Procedures which met required standards as required by 22
Code of Regulations §70213, thereby causing injury to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON as alleged herein; 
 
h. By wrongfully withholding the required
services to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON by failing to have a governing body
which operated the HOSPITAL in accordance with the requirements of 22 Code of
Regulations §70701 so that the services wrongfully withheld from ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON would not be wrongfully withheld thereby causing injury to ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON as alleged herein; 
 
i. By wrongfully withholding the required
services to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON by failing to respect her Patient’s
Rights in accordance with the requirements of 22 Code of Regulations §70707 in
the HOSPITAL’S failing to provide “considerate and respectful care”; j. By
wrongfully withholding the required services to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON to
be performed by “qualified personnel” in accordance with the requirements of 22
Code of Regulations §70721 thereby causing injury to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON
as alleged herein.
 
16. While a patient of the HOSPITAL, ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON was allowed to wander and elope. As of the filing of this
Complaint, PLAINTIFF has yet to be found.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 16, 20.)
 
            As for the third element, with
regard to the hospital’s knowledge that injury was substantially certain or
with conscious disregard of the high probability of injury, Plaintiff alleges:
 
22. Upon ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON’S admission
to the HOSPITAL, DEFENDANTS were well aware, through assessment information,
family information, as well as physician notes and orders provided to the
HOSPITAL, that ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON had a history of wandering and
elopement, and therefore required special care and assistance including 24-hour
supervision and monitoring, assistance and monitoring with ambulation and
transferring, the provision of safety and assistance devices to prevent accidents,
assistance and monitoring with other activities of daily living, and the
implementation of interventions to prevent future elopement. That
notwithstanding this knowledge, and notwithstanding a full knowledge that the
failure to create and implement proper care plans to prevent ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON from suffering future elopement created a high probability that
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON would suffer future elopement and resulting
injury, DEFENDANTS knowingly disregarded this risk and failed to adequately
assess, generate and implement an adequate plan of care for ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON and to implement adequate preventive measures for future
elopement. That in so doing, DEFENDANTS failed to meet ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON’S needs and failed to comply with the rules, laws and regulations
governing their HOSPITAL. Moreover, DEFENDANTS knowingly exposed ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON to extreme health and safety hazards. 
 
23. The DEFENDANTS were well aware that if they
failed to provide ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON with the aforementioned care,
supervision, and monitoring, there was a high probability that ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON would suffer injury. That DEFENDANTS consciously disregarded this
risk and failed to provide ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON with the aforementioned
required care, leading directly to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON’S injuries.
 
24. It is a statistical fact that elders such as
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON suffering from a history of wandering and
elopement are at high risk of future elopement and injury. Thus, general acute
care hospitals such as the HOSPITAL are to not only conduct assessments of high
wandering and elopement risk patients such as ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON, but
also are to update the assessments as frequently as necessary to determine the
specific interventions that should be put in place to prevent a patient such as
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON from suffering future elopement. These
interventions include such innocuous interventions as bracelet monitoring,
trained staff relating to patient wandering and elopement, wander guards to
absent patient notification systems. The HOSPITAL did not provide any such
services or interventions to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON notwithstanding that
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON required such services.
 
25. The DEFENDANTS were aware, upon admission and
during the residency of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON, that ANGELA SHALOME
STREAT WILSON required a higher level of care and care interventions to prevent
injury to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON than the HOSPITAL could, or would,
provide. And yet so as to unlawfully promote profits the DEFENDANTS admitted
and retained ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON as a patient of the HOSPITAL even
though the DEFENDANTS were fully aware that in so doing they exposed ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON to extreme health and safety hazards. In so doing the
DEFENDANTS recklessly failed to provide to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON
required medical and custodial care thereby causing injury. 
 
26. That the HOSPITAL knew prior to the admission
of the ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON that when the HOSPITAL failed to provide
the required care set forth above, that there was a high probability that
patients such as ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON would suffer serious injury. That
the HOSPITAL consciously disregarded this risk and failed to provide ANGELA
SHALOME STREAT WILSON with the aforementioned required care, leading directly
to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON’S injuries.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 22-26.)
 
            Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendant failed to adequately staff the hospital at which Plaintiff was
admitted in order to maximize profits:
 
7. The DEFENDANTS, by and through the corporate
officers and directors including, Johnese Spisso (Administrator); Karen Grimley
(Director of Nursing); and others presently unknown to Plaintiff and according
to proof at time of trial, ratified the conduct of their codefendants and the
HOSPITAL, in that they were aware of the understaffing of the HOSPITAL, in both
number and training, the relationship between understaffing and sub-standard
provision of care to patients of the HOSPITAL, including ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON, the rash, and truth, of lawsuits against the DEFENDANTS general acute
care hospitals including the HOSPITAL, and the HOSPITAL’S customary practice of
being issued deficiencies by the State of California’s Department of Public
Health as alleged herein. That notwithstanding this knowledge, these officers,
directors, and/or managing agents meaningfully disregarded the issues even
though they knew the understaffing could, would and did lead to unnecessary
injuries to patients of their HOSPITAL, including the ANGELA SHALOME STREAT
WILSON.
 
11. At all relevant times, the HOSPITAL and
MANAGEMENT DEFENDANTS and each of their tortious acts and omissions, as alleged
herein, were done in concert with one another in furtherance of their common
design and agreement to accomplish a particular result, namely maximizing
profits from the operation of the HOSPITAL by underfunding and understaffing
the HOSPITAL. Moreover, the DEFENDANTS aided and abetted each other in
accomplishing the acts and omissions alleged herein. (See Restatement (Second)
of Torts §876 (1979)).
 
41. ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON has reason to
believe that DEFENDANTS’ staffing was not based on the acuity of the patient
population but rather upon occupancy levels at its acute care hospitals
including the HOSPITAL. However, minimum staffing of personnel in the HOSPITAL
was dependent by law upon the acuity (need) level of the patients of the
HOSPITAL. Here, the HOSPITAL’S patient acuity levels during the admission of
ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON in the HOSPITAL were so high and that the
“minimum” staffing ratios exceeded the applicable numeric minimums. During the
admission of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON in the HOSPITAL, the HOSPITAL did not
meet its minimum staffing requirements in violation of the HOSPITAL’S own
Patient Classification System and the requirements of Title 22 C.C.R. §70217(b)
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 7, 11, 41.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff alleges with requisite particularity that (1)
Plaintiff was in the care and custody
of Defendant, who had responsibility for meeting Plaintiff’s basic needs as a
dependent adult, when she was admitted on July 15, 2023; (2) Defendant knew of Plaintiff’s
condition (schizophrenia) that made Plaintiff unable to provide for her own
basic needs; and (3) Defendant denied or withheld goods or services necessary
to meet Plaintiff’s basic needs by failing to provide the 24/7 monitoring she
required to prevent her ultimate elopement from the hospital.  
 
However, Plaintiff merely
concludes, but does not allege specific facts demonstrating that Defendant
neglected Plaintiff either with knowledge that injury was substantially
certain to befall her or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury, as is necessary to elevate Plaintiff’s claim from
negligence to elder abuse.  “Facts, not
conclusions, must be pleaded.”  (Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 410.)
 
Although chronic or severe
understaffing can, in extreme circumstances, rise the to the level of
recklessness, (Fenimore v. Regents of the University of California (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 1339; Cochrum v. Costa Victoria Healthcare, LLC
(2018) 25 Cal.5th 1034), Plaintiff has
not alleged any specific facts demonstrating that the hospital was chronically
or severely understaffed.  Plaintiff
vaguely references a “rash” of prior lawsuits, (Complaint ¶ 7), but Plaintiff
does not cite to any of them.  Nor does
the mere filing of lawsuits, in and of themselves, demonstrate wrongdoing.  
 
Similarly, Plaintiff alleges
that the average number of complaints filed against a hospital in California in
2023 was 13, whereas the Department of Public Health has received 48 such
complaints against Defendant.  (Complaint
¶ 49.)  But the filing of complaints, in
and of themselves, do not establish wrongdoing. 
Nor do these statistics, in a vacuum, demonstrate that Defendant had a
concerningly high rate of complaints, when the size and popularity of its
hospital are taken into account.
 
Plaintiff further alleges that
“[d]uring the admission of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON in the HOSPITAL, the
HOSPITAL did not meet its minimum staffing requirements in violation of the
HOSPITAL’S own Patient Classification System and the requirements of Title 22
C.C.R. § 70217(b).”  (Complaint ¶
41.)  A “knowing pattern of violating” staffing
regulations may “provide a basis for finding neglect” under the Elder Abuse
statute.  (Fenimore, supra,
245 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1348-1350.)  But
conclusory allegations that a hospital is chronically understaffed, without
more, is insufficient to rise above the level of professional negligence to the
recklessness necessary to support a claim for elder abuse.  (Worsham v. O'Connor Hosp.  (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 338.)  
 
Here, in contrast to
subdivision (a) of Section 70217, which mandates the minimum ratios of nurses
to patients in various hospital settings (e.g. 1:2 for critical care units, 1:4
in pediatric service units, etc.), subdivision (b) provides that in addition to
these minimum ratios, hospitals must have sufficient additional staff to meet
the specific medical needs of the patients. 

 
Therefore, Plaintiff does not
allege that Defendant knowingly chronically understaffed its hospital below the
minimum nurse-to-patient ratios; rather, Plaintiff alleges that in this
particular instance, Defendant did not have sufficient additional staff
members to watch Plaintiff 24/7.  Even if
Defendant’s failure to staff additional nurses dedicated to watching Plaintiff
24/7 is ultimately determined to violate section 70217, subd. (b), allegations regarding
a single incident of Defendant’s failure to appropriately assess and staff enough
nurses to manage one patient’s needs in one instance does not demonstrate severe
or chronic understaffing in conscious disregard of the health and safety of its
patients generally to rise to the level of recklessness, as opposed to just “a
slight understaffing, without any indication that it created an imminent risk
of harm” to patients, which does not rise to the level of recklessness.  (Cochrum, supra, 25 Cal.5th at p.
1048.)
 
Moreover, Plaintiff does not
allege that the neglect caused her “to suffer physical harm, pain or mental
suffering” to satisfy the fourth element. 
(Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 407.)  In fact, the complaint fails to allege that
Plaintiff suffered any harm or damages at all. 
All the complaint alleges resulted from Defendant’s alleged neglect is,
“While a patient of the HOSPITAL, ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON was
allowed to wander and elope. As of the filing of this Complaint, PLAINTIFF has
yet to be found.”  (Complaint ¶ 16.)
 
As such, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action for elder abuse.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendant moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages, treble damages, and attorney
fees. 
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity that Defendant acted with oppression or malice.  With respect to fraud, the complaint alleges:
 
27. DEFENDANTS represented to the general public
and to ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON and/or ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON’S legal
representative, that the HOSPITAL was sufficiently staffed so as to be able to
meet the needs of ANGELA SHALOME STREAT WILSON and the HOSPITAL operated in
compliance with all applicable rules, laws and regulations governing the
operation of general acute care hospitals in the State of California. These
representations were, and are, false.
 
(Complaint
¶ 27.)  But the Complaint does not allege
with particularity who made these representations, to whom these
representations were made (other than “the general public”), how these
representations were made, when they were made, or any facts demonstrating that
Defendant knew the representation was false at the time it was made.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the allegations do not adequately support
a claim for punitive damages, treble damages, or attorneys’ fees pursuant to
the elder abuse statute.
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests that if the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer and/or grants Defendant’s motion to strike, Plaintiff be given sixty
(60) days leave to amend the complaint, to allow for additional discovery
before Plaintiff is required to amend.  By this request, Plaintiff tacitly admits that
she has no additional facts to plead at this juncture.  Therefore, the Court denies leave to amend at
this time.  Should Plaintiff discover
additional facts in the discovery process substantiating a claim for elder
abuse, punitive damages, treble damages, and/or attorneys’ fees, Plaintiff may
bring a motion to amend the complaint at that time.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendant’s Demurrer to the
First Cause of Action for Elder Abuse with prejudice.    
 
Further, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike in its entirety,
and orders the requested allegations and prayer for punitive damages, treble
damages, and attorneys’ fees associated with the First Cause of Action stricken
from the complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the complaint
on or before December 27, 2023.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  December 6, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court