  Case Number:  24STCV02206    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Union Adjustment Co., Inc. and Nathan Rubinfeld’s Demurrer to Second Amended
Complaint 
Defendants
Union Adjustment Co., Inc. and Nathan
Rubinfeld (collectively, “Union”) demur to the first through 10th causes of
action alleged in the second amended complaint by plaintiff A-L Financial
Corp.  
Statutes of Limitations and Uncertainty
            Union
argues several causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations or are
uncertain because plaintiff did not allege when events happened.  “
‘When a ground for objection to a complaint, such as the statute of
limitations, appears on its face or from matters of which the court may or must
take judicial notice, a demurrer on that ground is proper.’ ”  (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange,
Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1482.)
The second amended complaint
alleges defendant Union Adjustment Co., Inc. “filed a Certificate of
Dissolution with the California Secretary of State.”  (SAC, ¶ 23.) 
Union requests judicial notice of the certificate of dissolution filed
with the Secretary of State on November 15, 2018.  (Jamison Decl., Ex. B.)  The certificate, the date of its filing, and
its legal effects are subject to judicial notice as official government acts (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (c); see Belen v. Ryan Seacrest Productions, LLC
(2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1161, fn. 2) and as matters of public record not reasonably subject to dispute
and capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to the Secretary
of State’s website (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (h)).  
Plaintiff
filed this action on August 25, 2023.  The
longest statute of limitations for any of its causes of action is four
years.  Plaintiff’s claims are untimely
if its causes of action accrued before August 25, 2019.  The second amended complaint conspicuously does not
allege a single date of the events giving rise to this case—not even the year.  
Normally, a demurrer
based on the statute of limitations should be overruled unless the defect
“clearly and affirmatively appear[s] on the face of the complaint; it is
not enough that the complaint shows merely that the action may be barred.”  (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)  But when a demurrer argues both “the cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations” and “the complaint is
uncertain,” those “grounds may be considered together, since the alleged
uncertainty relates to allegations intended to relieve the cause of action from
the bar of the statute.”  (Simpson v.
Dalziel (1902) 135 Cal. 599, 601.)  
A
demurrer can be sustained when the complaint’s
allegations “create[] an uncertainty as to” when the cause of action accrued,
such that the complaint omits that information to “avoid the effect of the
statute of limitations.”  (Tillson v.
Peters (1940) 41 Cal.App.2d 671, 674; accord Corum v. Hartford
Acc. & Indem. Co. (1945) 67 Cal.App.2d 891, 894 [“the failure to allege
a date, which appears to be material, such as the date of an accident, known to
plaintiff, and as to which it may be assumed plaintiff’s knowledge is superior
to that of defendant, is subject to special demurrer”].)  
As a leading practice
guide advises, “While the authorities appear to support a conclusion that the
demurrer cannot be sustained, requiring the defendant to make a later motion
for summary judgment, there are times when a demurrer for uncertainty as to the
date of occurrence or breach may be made. 
This is especially true when it is apparent the plaintiff purposely
omitted the date to avoid a bar by the statute of limitations and it would
require the parties to go through expensive discovery to find this
information.”  (Finley & McGuire, Cal.
Summary Judgment and Related Termination Motions (The Rutter Group 2024) § 2:70.)  Plaintiff’s second amended complaint is a paradigmatic
example of a pleading that purposely omits dates in an apparent attempt to
avoid the statute of limitations.
The opposition makes only
the following response to Union’s arguments on the statute of limitations: The
causes of action are not “barred by the statute of limitations because, among
other reasons, Union Defendants’ wrongful conduct remains ongoing, as alleged
in the Complaint.  For example, to this
day, Union Defendants continue to fail to give A-L ownership and control of the
Collection Matters.  Further, to this
day, Union Defendants continue to fail to pay A-L its share of amounts
collected in the Collection Matters.” 
(Opp., p. 5.)  
Continuing to not fulfill a past obligation does not indefinitely extend
the statute of limitations.  “Generally
speaking, a cause of action accrues at ‘the time when the cause of action is
complete with all of its elements.’ ”  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806.)  For example, if defendants converted property in 2016 and never
returned it, that defendants still have the property does not permit plaintiff
to sue for conversion in 2023.  
Union does not specifically assert that every cause of action is
uncertain and untimely.  Nonetheless,
this defect in the second amended complaint applies equally to all causes of
action.  
2nd, 3rd, & 4th Causes of Action:
Concealment, Fraud, & Negligent Misrepresentation
            Plaintiff does not allege
sufficient facts for these causes of action for another reason.  These claims are forms of fraud, which “must be pled specifically.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  This requirement applies to “ ‘[e]very
element of the cause of action for fraud.’ ” 
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
            Plaintiff
does not specifically allege facts showing it relied on any concealment or
misrepresentation and that its reliance resulted in damages.  For
fraud, the plaintiff’s damages must be “caused by the actions he took in
reliance on the defendant’s misrepresentations.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1064.)  When damages
result solely from the defendant’s failure to perform its contractual
obligations, those constitute “breach of contract damages, not reliance
damages” and therefore do not satisfy the element of damages for fraud.  (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1819; accord Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1240.)
            For these elements, plaintiff relies
solely on conclusory allegations: “Had the omitted information been disclosed,
Plaintiff reasonably would have behaved differently.  Plaintiff was harmed.  Defendants’ concealment was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.” 
(SAC, ¶¶ 61-63.)  “If Plaintiff
had been aware of such facts, Plaintiff would have acted differently.”  (¶¶ 71, 81.) 
These allegations fall far short of the required specificity for
pleading fraud.  Plaintiff does not
allege what it would have done differently, what it did in reliance on the
alleged fraud, or how any actions it took in reliance on the fraud caused
plaintiff’s damages.  Plaintiff does not
allege facts showing it suffered any damages other than those resulting from
alleged breaches of contract. 
5th Cause of Action:
Conversion
            Plaintiff also does not allege
sufficient facts for conversion for an independent reason.  “The gravamen of” conversion “is the
defendant’s hostile act of dominion or control over a specific chattel to which
the plaintiff has the right of immediate possession.”  (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.)   “[A] mere contractual right of payment,
without more, will not suffice” for conversion. 
(Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452.)
            The second amended complaint alleges
defendant converted “Plaintiff’s interest in the Collection Matters.”  (SAC, ¶ 87.) 
“The Collection Matters” are debts owed to plaintiff.  (¶ 18.) 
Those are contractual rights to payment. 
Plaintiff provides no authority permitting a cause of action for
conversion of intangible rights to collect debts.
10th Cause of Action: Negligence
This cause of action also fails for an independent
reason.  The economic loss rule bars plaintiff’s
claim for negligence.  “In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
922.)  “[T]he rule functions to bar
claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties.”  (Ibid.)
 
“ ‘[T]he economic
loss rule requires a [contractual party] to recover in contract for purely
economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless [the party] can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.’ ”  (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024)
17 Cal.5th 1, 20.)  “[T]he economic loss
doctrine applies when the parties have entered into a contract; the plaintiff
sues for tort damages, alleging the defendant failed to perform as the contract
requires; and negligently caused economic losses flowing from the breach.  In such a case, the plaintiffs are generally
limited to recovery of those economic damages and cannot seek to expand their
remedies beyond those available in contract.  The doctrine does not apply if the defendant’s
breach caused physical damage or personal injury beyond the economic losses
caused by the contractual breach and the defendant violated a duty flowing, not
from the contract, but from a separate, legally recognized tort obligation.”  (Id. at p. 44.)
The second amended complaint’s 10th cause of action merely incorporates
the prior allegations (¶ 110) and asserts defendants “were negligent in their
handling of the Collection Matters, as described above” (¶ 112).  Handling the collection matters was the
subject of the parties’ contract.  Plaintiff
does not allege Union breached an independent tort obligation, caused any
physical damage or personal injury, or caused any losses beyond a broken
contractual promise.  Plaintiff alleges
no more than that Union negligently breached the contract.  The economic loss rule bars this claim.
Other Grounds for Demurrer
            Union also demurs to several
causes of action on additional grounds. 
Because the court will sustain the entire demurrer, it need not and does
not address the other grounds asserted in Union’s demurrer.
Disposition  
Defendants Union Adjustment Co., Inc. and Nathan Rubinfeld’s
demurrer to plaintiff A-L Financial Corp.’s first
through 10th causes of action is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.