  Case Number:  23PSCV02864    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Silvia  Aguilar v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.  Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On September 15, 2023, plaintiff Silvia  Aguilar (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant American Honda Motor  Co., Inc. (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for Violation  of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, Violation of Song-Beverly Act  – Breach of Implied Warranty, and Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section  1793.2.  On February 21, 2024, Defendant moved to compel binding  arbitration. On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On April 9, 2024,  Defendant replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD              Parties may be compelled  to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v. Southern  California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The  Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice. (Id.) The  Court takes judicial notice only as to “the existence, content and authenticity  of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial  notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS              The Court  OVERRULES Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections.  DISCUSSION  FAA  v. CAA            “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them.” (Id. at 174, 110 Cal.Rptr.3d 180.)  “[T]he question is not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345) [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].            “[P]revious cases have held that when  an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by  California law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion  to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its  ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to  compel arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC  (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.)  The Court finds that the applicable law here  is the CAA. This action was filed in California state court, so the default  rule is the CAA. (Victrola 89, LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)  The Court also notes that the language of the Arbitration Agreement (as defined  below) only indicates that the FAA governs arbitrations; it does not provide  that the enforcement of the Arbitration Provision is governed by the FAA. (Id.;  Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, p. 7.)  Accordingly, the CAA governs this motion to  compel arbitration.  Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement  Defendant moves to compel arbitration based on the arbitration provision  (Arbitration Provision) contained in the Retail Installment Sale Contract (the  Sales Contract) between Plaintiff and the dealer for the purchase of the  subject vehicle. (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2, p. 7.) The Court finds Defendant has  met its initial burden in establishing the existence of a valid arbitration  agreement. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) The burden now  shifts to Plaintiff to challenge its validity. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic  (2021)  72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)  Plaintiff did not present any  evidence to challenge the validity of the Arbitration Provision. Plaintiff’s  objection to the Sales Contract, and by extension the Arbitration Provision, is  insufficient to challenge its validity for purposes of a motion to compel  arbitration. (See Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232  Cal.App.4th 836, 845, italics in original [“[A]  petitioner is not required to authenticate an opposing party's signature on an  arbitration agreement as a preliminary matter in moving for arbitration or in the event the  authenticity of the signature is not challenged. [Citation.]”]) Defendant was  not required to authenticate the Sales Contract when it filed this motion, and Plaintiff’s  opposition does not dispute that she signed the Sales Contract or the  authenticity of her signatures on it. (See generally Opp.) Accordingly, the  Court finds Defendant has established the existence of a valid arbitration  agreement.  The next issue is whether the Arbitration Provision  covers Plaintiff’s claims in this action. Defendant tacitly concedes it is not  a party to the Sales Contract and the Arbitration Provision, but it argues that  it is entitled to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims under equitable  estoppel and as a third-party beneficiary.              Equitable  Estoppel  Defendant argues it is entitled to enforce the Arbitration  Provision under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Defendant relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, arguing that Plaintiff’s  claims arise out of and are intertwined with the underlying contract  obligations of the Sales Contract. (Id. at p. 495; Boucher v.  Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 271, [“[U]nder both  federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may  invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its  claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately  founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”]; Goldman  v. KPMG LLP  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th  209, 217-218.)  In Felisilda, the First  District of the Court of Appeal found that purchasers of a vehicle were  estopped from refusing to arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle  manufacturer, based on an agreement between the purchaser and the vehicle  dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-499.) The  relevant portions of the arbitration agreement in Felisilda are identical to those in the Arbitration  Provision:  ARBITRATION  PROVISION [¶] ... [¶] 1. EITHER YOU  OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT  IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . . Any claim or  dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the  interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability  of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,  successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to ... condition  of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship  (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this  contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding  arbitration and not by a court action. . .  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, italics in  original.)   The Court of  Appeal in Felisilda found that because the plaintiffs  “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the  vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they  are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the manufacturer].”  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) As such, the Court of  Appeal found the plaintiffs’ claims in that action arose out of the condition  of the vehicle and were covered by the arbitration provision in that contract.  The Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on or  intimately connected” with the contract in that action because they arose out  of the condition of the vehicle. (Id.  at p. 496.)  However, last  year, the Second District of the Court of Appeal rejected application of Felisilda in a similar motion to compel  arbitration by a car manufacturer in a lemon law case. (Ford Motor Warranty  Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal. App. 4th 1324, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611 (“Ochoa”).)  Additionally, on June 26, 2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal  decided the case Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958,  in which the Court of Appeal also rejected the holding in Felisilda that  equitable estoppel applies to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an  arbitration provision in a sales contract like the contract at issue in this  case. The Court of Appeal further rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa  in other recently issued opinions, such as Kielar v. Superior Court  (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614 and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa  County (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264.  The Second District in Ochoa found that the arbitration  language was insufficient to support the manufacturer’s equitable estoppel  argument. In relevant part, Ochoa expressly  diverged from Felisilda's analysis that "the sales contract was the  source" of the warranties at issue. (Felisilda, supra, 53  Cal.App.5th at 496.) Instead, Ochoa concluded that “manufacturer vehicle  warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the  terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent  of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra, at 619.) Thus, the Court found  equitable estoppel to be inapplicable because the plaintiffs' claims "in  no way rel[ied] on the sale contracts." (Id. at 621.) The  Court of Appeal held that this language in the arbitration clause referring to  arbitration of claims “against third party nonsignatories” cannot mandate  arbitration of the warranty claims. Rather, such language agreed to  arbitrate claims against third parties whose service, etc., are financed under  the sales contract. (Id.)  The Second District also found that the warranty claims were not  founded in the sales contracts. The warranty claims arose out of statutory  obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to  repair in accordance with the warranty or related claims. They did not  arise out of any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which  themselves do not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s  performance, or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To  the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the  dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle  that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.’” (Ochoa, supra, 89  Cal.App.5th at p. 1335.) In short, “the substantive terms of the sale contracts  relate to sale and financing and nothing more.” (Ibid.)  Thus, there is a split of authority on this point of law.  "[W]here there is more than one appellate court decision, and such  appellate decisions are in conflict . . . the court exercising inferior  jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting  decisions." (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Ct. of Santa Clara  Cnty. (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450, 456.) The Court notes that Ochoa is currently  pending review before the California Supreme Court, but the Court is permitted  to rely on Ochoa while it is pending review. (Id.; Cal. Rules of  Court, rules 8.1115, subd. (e)(3); Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 532  P.3d 270.)[1]  The Court finds Ochoa and the cases following it to be the  better reasoned cases which more precisely examine the contract terms and  long-standing warranty law distinguishing between manufacture warranties and  retailer sale contracts. (See Ochoa, supra, at 621-622.) Indeed, the  Court finds the same rationale and reasoning in Ochoa applies here. The  substantive terms of the Sales Contract relate to the sale and financing of the  subject vehicle, do not set forth the terms of the warranties between Defendant  and Plaintiff, and directly disclaims any warranties by the dealer. (See Ameripour  Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 4.) Defendant’s obligations in this context arise under  operation of law, not contract. (See Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p.  1334). Thus, the warranties were not inextricably intertwined with or founded  in the Sales Contract for purposes of equitable estoppel.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Defendant’s equitable  estoppel theory.  Third-Party  Beneficiary            For Defendant’s contention of enforcing the Arbitration Provision  as a third-party beneficiary to be true, “the parties to the contract must have  intended the third party to benefit.” (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27  Cal.4th 516, 524.) To do so, Defendant must show that “(1)…the third  party would in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2)…a motivating  purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party,  and (3)…permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action  against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract  and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements  must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.” (Goonewardene  v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)  The Second District in Ochoa also rejected the auto  manufacturer’s third-party beneficiary argument. Analyzing the Ninth Circuit  Court of Appeal's recent decision in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, the Second District agreed that the sales contracts reflect  no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under the Goonewardene factor  – nothing in the sales contracts or their arbitration provision offers any  direct “benefit” to the manufacturer, there was no indication that a benefit to  the manufacturer was a motivating purpose of the contract, and allowing the  manufacturer to enforce the arbitration would be inconsistent with the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338.)  Applying the same reasoning here, there is insufficient evidence  to show a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a  benefit to Defendant. Civil Code section 1559 requires that a contract  benefiting a third party must be made expressly for the benefit of a third  person before that third party can enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court  finds no language in the Sales Contract or Arbitration Provision indicating an  express intent to benefit Defendant, nor does the Court find that allowing Defendant  to compel arbitration would be consistent with the reasonable expectations of  the contracting parties.  Here, the arbitration provision expressly states that only two  parties—Plaintiff and the dealer—may compel arbitration. The Sales Contract  defines "you" as Plaintiff Lopez and "we" as the dealer. (Ameripour  Decl., Ex. 2.) The Arbitration Provision specifies that "[e]ither you  or we may choose to have any dispute between us decided by arbitration and  not in court or by jury trial." (Id., emphasis added). The clause  also states that "[a]ny claim or dispute . . . between you and us or our  employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to  your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract  or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship  with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our  election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court  action." (Id., emphasis added.) Though the language allows for  arbitration of certain claims concerning third parties, it still gives only  Plaintiff and the dealer the power to compel arbitration. Nothing in the clause  or, for that matter, in the Sales Contract reflects any intention to benefit Defendant  by allowing it to take advantage of the Arbitration Provision.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Defendant’s third-party  beneficiary argument as well, and DENIES the motion to compel arbitration.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     