

Hearing Date:              April
15, 2024
Case Name:                 Neman
v. Bahari  
Case No.:                    22STCV39168
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving Party:             Defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari Moghadam, Haim
Bahari, Tal Bahari, 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, Cavalini, Inc., and Caster Modelo,
LLC

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Morad Ben Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is overruled. 

             
            This case arises out of an alleged
breach of an oral joint venture agreement to jointly purchase real estate.
Plaintiffs Morad Ben Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC (Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari Moghadam, Haim Bahari,
Tal Bahari, and three entities: (1) 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, (2) Cavalini, Inc.,
and (3) Caster Modelo, LLC (collectively, Defendants).
 
            On December 16, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint. Defendants demurred to each cause of action. The Court
sustained the demurrer in its entirety. 
 
            On June 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint. Following
another demurrer, the Court again sustained the demurrer.
 
            Thereafter, Plaintiffs filed a
Second Amended Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1.) Breach of Joint
Venture Agreement, (2.) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3.) Aiding and Abetting
Breaches of Fiduciary Duty, and (4.) Fraudulent Conveyances
 
Defendants now
demur to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in the Second
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. 
 
            The Court overrules the demurrer. 
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
Defendants
demur to the SAC on the grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to state a claim. 
 
First Cause
of Action for Breach of Oral Joint Venture Agreement: 
 
            Defendants argue the first cause of
action for breach of joint venture agreement is fatally uncertain and fails to
state a claim. Defendants argue that despite the Court’s prior ruling as to
this cause of action on demurrer, the SAC does not add any detail regarding the
obligations of each party and is still vague as to when the agreement was made.
 
            There are three elements to show the
existence of a joint venture, which are similar to a general partnership: (1)
joint interest in a common business; (2) with an understanding to share profits
and losses; and (3) a right to joint control. (Jacobs v. Locatelli
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 317.) Facts showing the joining of funds,
property, or labor in a common purpose to attain a result for the benefit of
the parties in which each has a right in some measure to direct the conduct of
the other through a fiduciary relation that must exist, will justify a finding
that a joint venture exists. (Fitzgerald v. Provines (1951) 102
Cal.App.2d 529, 537.) 
 
A
joint venture is an agreement. An agreement is a manifestation of mutual assent
on the part of two or more persons. 
 
The
Court sustained demurrers to the first cause of action because it was unclear what
the parties’ obligations were under this agreement and when the agreement was
to take place. The Complaint failed to allege who possesses the right to
control or manage the property. On the FAC, the pleadings alleged that all the
joint venturers “have an equal right to control and manage the joint venture
and its properties,” but it also alleges that Plaintiffs have the “right to
manage the day-to-day activities of each [property] and [make] the decisions
about how to best monetize them.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) The Court found that these
allegations were vague, conclusory and somewhat contradictory as pled such that
the FAC continued to fail to adequately specify the partnership rights nor what
is involved in the management control. Additionally, it remains unclear when
these terms will apply and to which parties. Further, the pleadings still failed
to allege the date of the agreement or the details. (FAC ¶¶ 18, 28.) For this
reason, the FAC failed to allege the specific obligations of each party as it
relates to joint control, management and duration.
Now, the
SAC alleges that in “May 2021,” Defendant Payam and Plaintiffs discussed
“Plaintiffs’ terms for venturing with others in the purchase of real property
for mutual profit.” (SAC ¶ 17.) “Plaintiffs explained that they would locate
and present lucrative investment opportunities to their partners; typically
involving undervalued properties available for purchase at prices far less than
their true value, and that these opportunities would be disclosed only to
Plaintiffs' partners, who would be expected to maintain the opportunities in
confidence and not seek to directly acquire them around Plaintiffs.” (SAC ¶
17.) 
Further,
the SAC alleges that:
“Although the parties would enjoy a joint right to
manage and participate in management of the joint venture properties, Plaintiffs would perform the role of property manager,
including overseeing the day-to-day management of the properties and would
maintain a bank account for the parties' joint ventures through which the needs
of parties' joint ventures would be timely paid, using funds supplied either by
Defendants or the properties themselves.” (SAC ¶ 18(C).)
The prior allegations
referencing a right to control the day-to-day management created confusion on
the joint ownership and control issues. The SAC now alleged that “Plaintiffs
would perform the role of property manager.” While the change may seem minor,
it appears to be a proper delegation of the joint control authority enjoyed by
both parties. 
            “ ‘A joint venture ... is an undertaking by two or more
persons jointly to carry out a single business enterprise for profit.’
[Citation.] ‘There are three basic elements of a joint venture: the members
must have joint control over the venture (even though they may delegate it),
they must share the profits of the undertaking, and the members must each have
an ownership interest in the enterprise. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]’ ” (Unruh–Haxton
v. Regents of the University of California (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343,
370.)
            The SAC also provides greater detail generally to the terms
of the Joint Venture Agreement and its breach. (SAC ¶¶ 18-29.)
            A plaintiff must “ ‘ “set forth the essential facts of
his case with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to
acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of
action.” ’ ” (Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins.
Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.) “ ‘ “The particularity
required in pleading facts depends on the extent to which the defendant in
fairness needs detailed information that can be conveniently provided by
the plaintiff; less particularity is required where the defendant may be
assumed to have knowledge of the facts equal to that possessed by the
plaintiff.” ’ ” (Ibid.)
            These allegations are sufficient – at the pleading stage
– to address the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, the nature of the joint
control, the parties’ obligations and when the agreement was to take place. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged a breach of the Joint Venture Agreement. Defendants’ demurrer for uncertainty
fails.  
Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty: 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed
to state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty because Plaintiffs cannot
allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship in the absence of a joint
venture.
“The
elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1395, 1405.) 
            One element of the cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty is the existence of a fiduciary relationship. (Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432.) A joint
venture is an “undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit” (Nelson v. Abraham
(1947) 29 Cal.2d 745, 749) and is a type of relationship upon which the law
imposes fiduciary duties (Cleveland v. Johnson
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1339.)
 
            The second cause of action relies on
the existence of a joint venture agreement to create fiduciary relationship
between the parties. (SAC ¶ 37.) Given the Court’s ruling on the first cause of
action, the demurrer to the second cause of action is also overruled. 
 
Third Cause
of Action for Aiding and Abetting: 
 
            Defendants demur to the third cause
of action on the grounds that claim is uncertain. 
 
Liability
for aiding and abetting another’s tort may be imposed upon a party where that
party “(a) knows the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives
substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the
person’s own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to
the third person.” (Casey v. U.S. Bank National Association (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144 (Casey).) 
 
“The elements of a claim
for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) a third party’s
breach of fiduciary duties owed to plaintiff; (2) defendant’s actual knowledge
of that breach of fiduciary duties; (3) substantial assistance or encouragement
by defendant to the third party’s breach; and (4) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing harm to plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v. Buck
Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 343.)
 
On
the Court’s prior ruling on the demurrer to the FAC, it noted that this cause
of action was alleged against all Defendants. However, the FAC also alleged that
“Payam and Fred, and each of them, owed fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs...” and
that “the other Defendants actively and personally conspired with Fred and
Payam and aided and abetted them in breaching their fiduciary duties…” (FAC ¶
38.) Based on these allegations, it was unclear whether the FAC intended to
allege this cause of action against all Defendants, or allege it against all
Defendants to the exclusion of Fred Bahari and Payam Bahari who were the
principals. 
 
The
Court also noted that for the same reasons the breach of fiduciary duty claim
failed, the aiding and abetting claim also failed: there can be no aiding and
abetting cause of action where there is no breach of a fiduciary duty cause of
action.
 
Now,
on the SAC, the third cause of action is alleged only as to “Fred, Haim, Tai,
Cavalini, Caster Modelo.” The SAC further states “Payam undeniably owed
fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs” and “Defendants Fred,
Haim, Tal, Cavalini, Caster Modelo” “were aware of Payam' s fiduciary
duties, and of the fact Payam owed such duties to Plaintiffs and each sought to
exploit the others' breach of these fiduciary duties for their own enrichment
and benefit.” (SAC ¶¶ 42-43.)
Thus, the
SAC now clearly alleges aiding and abetting liability as to Defendants Fred,
Haim, Tal, Cavalini, Caster Modelo based on the breach of a fiduciary duty as
to Defendant Payam. The fact that these Defendants are also alleged on the
breach of fiduciary duty claim is not fatal where Plaintiff is allowed to
allege alternative theories of liability in the event the Court finds that
Defendants Fred, Haim, Tal, Cavalini, Caster Modelo does not have a fiduciary
relationship with Plaintiffs. “While a complaint may not plead inconsistent facts,
it may plead inconsistent legal theories or causes of action.” (Vichy
Springs Resort, Inc. v. City of Ukiah (Cal. Ct. App., Mar. 29, 2024, No.
A165345) 2024 WL 1340842, at *9 [citing Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 944–945].) 
Thus, the demurrer
to this cause of action is overruled. 
Fourth
Cause of Action:
 
A fraudulent conveyance is “a transfer
by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to
prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Yaesu
Electronics Corp. v. Tamura (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 8, 13, 33.) Pursuant to
Civil Code section 3439.04(a)(1), “[a] transfer made...by a debtor is
fraudulent as to a creditor, whether the creditor's claim arose before or after
the transfer was made.... if the debtor made the transfer... [w]ith actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.”
 
            Here,
Defendants argue that this cause of action fails because the claim is
uncertain, fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim and because
Plaintiffs do not meet the definition of a creditor under California Civil Code
section 3439.01.
 
            As
noted above, the SAC now adequately states causes of action for breach of a joint
venture agreement, breach of a fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting a breach
of fiduciary duty. Thus, in contrast to prior rulings, Plaintiff has now
adequately pled causes of action against Defendants. 
 
             The Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (UVTA)[1]
defines a debt as “liability on a claim”; a claim as “a right to payment”; and
a creditor as “a person that has a claim.” (Civ. Code § 3439.01, subds.
(b)–(d).) Specifically,
the UVTA in section 3439.01, subdivision (b), defines the creditor's “[c]laim”
as “a right to payment, whether or not the right is reduced to judgment,
liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed,
undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured.”
 
“A
key feature of the UFTA is that a creditor is permitted, but not required, to
maintain an action to annul a fraudulent conveyance before his debt has
matured. [Citations.] As stated in Weisenburg v. Cragholm (1971) 5
Cal.3d 892, 896 [citations], ‘it is no longer necessary that a creditor reduce
his claim to judgment before seeking the benefit of the remedy. [Fn. omitted.]’
” (Cortez v. Vogt (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 917, 930, fn. 12.)
 
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff’s viable causes of action now render Plaintiff a creditor under the
statute. 
            Moreover, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants have transferred “valuable property rights - including
title in valuable real property and other property, including the 114 Grand
Cypress Property - to each other and/or to third parties” “for the express
purpose of attempting to render Payam, along with other Defendants,
judgment-proof, or at least to try and insulate them from liability for the
damages suffered by Plaintiffs by placing valuable property and property rights
in the hands of third parties with the actual intent of hindering Plaintiffs'
ability to collect its damages from Defendants.” (SAC ¶ 49.) Specifically, Defendant
“usurped ownership of the Grand Cypress property for themselves” “which
Defendants then sold for millions of dollars of profit that Defendants, and
each of them, have concealed and fraudulently conveyed out of  Plaintiffs’ reach.” (SAC ¶ 49.) The SAC then alleges
that Defendants “did not receive reasonably equivalent value for the property
transferred by them as set forth above.” (SAC ¶ 49.) 
             The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is overruled.
Conclusion
            The demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is overruled. 
 


