  Case Number:  22STCV38373    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
NICHOLAS SABBAGH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CULVER 12 LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38373
  Hearing Date: February 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
culver 12, llc’s motion to compel
  further deposition 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff
Nicholas Sabbagh filed this action against Defendant Culver 12 LLC, alleging
causes of action for (1) unlawful retention of security deposit, (2) breach of
lease, (3) negligence, and (4) conversion. Plaintiff alleges that he rented a
unit from Defendant and paid a $15,000 security deposit which was supposed to
be returned upon termination of the tenancy. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant improperly
applied expenses against the deposit, resulting in nothing being returned to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that this amounts to theft of the security
deposit.       
            On January 5, 2023, Defendant Culver
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Sachin Tejas Bettadapur, Alexander
Amir Rassouli, and Ashan Naik, alleging breach of lease. Plaintiff and the
other Cross-Defendants resided in the same unit. Culver alleges that the
tenants caused extensive damages to the unit which required more than $18,000
to repair. Culver therefore applied the full security deposit of $15,000 towards
the repair. The tenants also allegedly kept a dog in violation of the no-pet
provision in the lease. Culver sues for the damage caused to the premises by
the tenants and their dog.  
            On March 15, 2023, Bettadapur, Rassouli,
and Naik, the tenants who shared the unit with Plaintiff, filed their own
cross-complaint against Culver, which is substantively identical to Plaintiff’s
complaint.
            On January 8, 2024, Culver filed the
instant motion to compel further deposition testimony and production of
documents from Plaintiff, Rassouli, Naik, and Bettadapur. Culver filed a reply
on January 26, 2024, indicating that it received an opposition. However, no
opposition has been filed with the Court, and therefore no opposition will be
considered.   
LEGAL STANDARD
A deponent may not be deposed twice except
for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610(a), (b).) “If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Id.,
§ 2025.480(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            The subject depositions initially
took place between November and December 2023. (Shabel Decl. ¶ 2.) The requests
for production accompanying the depositions included a request to produce
communications between the Cross-Defendants from August 1, 2022 to December 8,
2022 pertaining to the premises or the lease thereof. (Id., Ex. A.)
Bettadapur and Naik were deposed first but did not produce any communications
in accordance with the above request. (Id., ¶ 4.) Minutes before Rassouli’s
deposition began, Rassouli’s attorney sent screenshots of text messages between
the Cross-Defendants. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s deposition was scheduled for
the day after Rassouli’s. (Ibid.) Culver contends that because the texts
were produced so late, it did not have the documents required to properly
depose Bettadapur and Naik, and could not properly prepare for the depositions
of Rassouli and Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 6.) Culver further contends that more
communications exist which have not been produced. (Id., ¶ 7.) Through
this motion, Culver seeks to compel the production of all communications in
accordance with the above document request and to compel the depositions of
Cross-Defendants regarding any such communications that were or will be
produced.  
            The subject communications pertain
to Cross-Defendants’ potential animus towards the landlord (Culver) and their
potentially frivolous motivations for filing this action. (See Shabel Decl.,
Ex. B.) Therefore, the communications are material to the action, and Culver is
entitled to discover them and depose Cross-Defendants about them.
Cross-Defendants do not deny the existence of additional communications which
have not been produced. Cross-Defendants have not filed an opposition and have
therefore presented no argument regarding why they should not be compelled to produce
the remainder of the subject communications and be deposed about them. 
CONCLUSION
            Culver 12, LLC’s motion to compel
further deposition and production of documents is GRANTED. Sanctions are denied
as Culver failed to “identify every person, party, and attorney against whom
the sanction is sought” in the notice of motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.040.) 
 