 This is an employment action.  Defendant Performance Team Logistics, LLC, joined by Defendant Jeanie Jenkins, seeks to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff Joshua Domingos as a component of his employment.  Plaintiff opposes the Motion, contending that (a) arbitration has been waived and (b) the subject agreement is unconscionable. Plaintiff contends that there has been waiver because mediation was required before arbitration and Defendants never participated in mediation prior to bringing the instant Motion. This argument lacks merit and/or is moot because the parties ultimately continued the instant Motion to complete mediation.Next, “ ‘unconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results. [Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Plaintiff argues that there is substantive unconscionability because (a) the subject agreement does not provide for adequate discovery and (b) Defendants have an advantage by choosing AAA.Armendariz held that arbitration agreements relating to unwaivable statutory rights must “(1) provide[] for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide[] for more than minimal discovery, (3) require[] a written award [which permits judicial review], (4) provide[] for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) . . . not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators' fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) Here, the subject agreement indicates that discovery will take place pursuant to AAA employment rules, and this is sufficient to comply with the requirements of Armendariz.  (Roman v. Superior Ct. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1476.)  Arbitration proceedings need not provide for the “full panoply” of discovery available under the Code of Civil Procedure.  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 105.)  The AAA rules provide for discovery should it be “necessary to a full and fair exploration of the issues in dispute . . . .”  Unlike in Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702118 Cal.App.4th 702, 709 in which sufficient discovery was not found, here the arbitrator need not find that “a fair hearing is impossible without [the requested] additional discovery.”  Indeed, requiring a showing of a “sufficient cause” does not render an arbitration agreement “substantively unconscionable.”  (Abeyrama v. J.P. Morgan Chase Bank (2012 C.D. Cal.) 2012 WL 2393063 at *4.) Also, Plaintiff has not shown or cited authority to the effect that simply designating AAA as the arbitrating agency creates substantive unconscionabilityBecause there is no substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff’s unconscionability defense fails.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [defense of unconscionability requires both procedural and substantive unconscionability].)  As Defendant has established that a valid agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.The action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4)Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 