 Case Number:  24STCV06955    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JUYUN KIM 
  
        
  vs.
 
SUNNY CHAE 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV06955   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.   
 
            On
4/19/2024, Plaintiff Ju Yun Kim (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendant Sunny
Chae.
 
            Now,
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges in full: 
 
Refiling
because address was not changed and enver received any documents therefore, I
did not know the date and hearing (3/20/24) the judge dismissed the case
without prejudice and was told by the judge that I am able to refile. The
reason for the whole case is due to the fraud [sic] by Sunny Chae and
she sold the business without a license. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not meet even basic pleading requirements for a Complaint, as it
does not identify any cause of action. Plaintiff’s allegation that “[t]he
reason for the whole case is due to the fraud [sic] by Sunny Chae and
she sold the business without a license” is insufficient to state a claim. 
 
            The
Court urges Plaintiff to consult with an attorney. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to
amend.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 