 Case Number:  23STCV20065    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALLY BANK 
  
        
  vs.
 
MARY L. DOZZIE aka MARY DOZZIE 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV20065
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024




 
 
Plaintiff’s application for a writ of possession is
DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
            On 8/22/2023, Plaintiff Ally Bank
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Mary L. Dozzie aka Mary Dozzie, alleging: (1)
claim and delivery of personal property for pre-trial writ of possession; and
(2) money due on contract. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“Upon the filing
of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to
this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the
writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (CCP § 512.010(a).) 
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under
oath and include: 
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's
claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed.
If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the
instrument shall be attached. 
 
(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully
detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into
possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information,
and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention. 
 
(3) A particular description of the property
and a statement of its value. 
 
(4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there. 
 
(5) A statement that the property has not
been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. 
 
Before the hearing
on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the
summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy
of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (CCP § 512.030.) 
 
“The writ will be
issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the
other requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (CCP §
512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.”  (CCP § 511.090.)   
 
Prior to the
issuance of a writ of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an
amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount.”  (CCP § 515.010(a).)   
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession
for a 2017 Audi Q7, pursuant to CCP section 512.010. 
 
            CCP section 512.030 provides: 
(a) Prior to the hearing required by subdivision (a)
of Section 512.020, the defendant shall be served with all of the following:
(1) A copy of the summons and complaint.
(2) A Notice of Application and Hearing.
(3) A copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.
(b) If the defendant has not appeared in the action,
and a writ, notice, order, or other paper is required to be personally served
on the defendant under this title, service shall be made in the same manner as
a summons is served under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10) of Title
5.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not submitted any proof of service to show service has been
effectuated on Defendant. Accordingly, the motion must be denied. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s application for a writ of possession is denied,
without prejudice.   
 
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 