  Case Number:  19STCV44140    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




david dallakian

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
simple bar, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV44140




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   25, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for determination of good
  faith settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Adroit Private
Security, Inc.         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Adroit Private Security, Inc. (“Adroit”) moves the court for
an order determining that the following settlements were made in good faith
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 877 and 877.6: (1) the settlement
between Adroit and defendants Garrick Lavar Powell (sued and served as Doe 1 to
the Complaint filed by plaintiff David Dallakian (“Dallakian”)), Kabir Aleem
(sued and served as Doe 2 to Dallakian’s Complaint), and William Clark (sued
and served as Doe 3 to Dallakian’s Complaint) (collectively, “Guard
Defendants”), on the one hand, and plaintiff Dallakian, on the other hand; (2)
the settlement between Adroit and Guard Defendants, on the one hand, and
plaintiff Haroutioun Aivazian (“Aivazian”), on the other hand; and (3) the
settlement between Adroit and Guard Defendants, on the one hand, and defendant
and cross-complainant Simple Bar, Inc. (“Simple Bar”) on the other hand.
“[Code of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the
Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM
Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ On noticed motion, “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party
asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)¿ 
The court finds that Adroit has not met its burden to submit evidence
permitting the court to determine that the settlements that it, along with
Guard Defendants, entered into with three sets of parties involved in this
action were made in good faith.  
The court acknowledges that (1) no party has filed an opposition to the
pending motion, and (2) when a motion for determination of good faith
settlement is uncontested, a “barebones” motion that sets forth the ground of
good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of
the case, is sufficient to support a good faith determination.¿ (City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿ However,
Adroit’s motion does not meet the “barebones” standard that would permit the
court to make a good faith determination as to the subject settlements. 
First, Adroit’s motion does not “set[] forth the ground of good faith”
as to each of the three separate settlements. 
(City of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)
 While the motion sets forth the standard
for determining that a settlement is in good faith, nowhere did Adroit describe
the terms of the settlements—including the amount(s) it and/or Guard Defendants
must pay to Dallakian, Aivazian, and Simple Bar, if any—such that it has not made
a showing of good faith.  Moreover,
Adroit did not file evidence in support of this motion providing the court with
details of the settlements. 
Second, Adroit did not “accompan[y] [its motion with] a declaration
setting forth a brief factual background of the case[.]”  (City of Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)  The court
notes that, while the notice of motion asserts that the motion is based on, inter
alia, “the Declaration of Daniel M. Josephson[,]” Adroit did not submit any
declarations or other evidence in support of its motion.  (Notice of Mot., p. 3:4-5.)  Moreover, it appears that Adroit did not serve
a declaration in support of its motion on the parties involved in this
action.  (Mot., p. 14 [proof of service
of notice of motion, motion, memorandum of points and authorities, and proposed
order].) 
Thus, the court finds that Adroit did not present adequate evidence or
argument to permit the court to determine that the three settlements that are
the subject of this motion were made in good faith.  The court therefore denies Adroit’s motion,
without prejudice to Adroit’s filing a revised motion that sets forth the
information required to make a good faith determination of the settlements made
between Adroit and Guard Defendants, on the one hand, and, separately,
Dallakian, Aivazian, and Simple Bar. 
ORDER
            The court denies, without prejudice,
defendant Adroit Private Security, Inc.’s motion for determination of good
faith settlement. 
            The court orders defendant Adroit
Private Security, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 25, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court