 Case Number:  23AHCV01361    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINTI.         INTRODUCTION
This action arises from an incident that occurred on April 19, 2023, at
an LA Fitness facility in Arcadia, California. Plaintiff, Hee Sung Kwon
(“Plaintiff”), alleges he sustained injuries due to a malfunctioning treadmill.
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed claims against Defendants, Fitness
International, LLC (erroneously sued as “LA Fitness”) and Francesca Levy
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging 1) Negligence and 2) Premise Liability.
On November 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the
complaint to include allegations of gross negligence. On December 6, 2024,
Defendants filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a) provides: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see Code
Civ. Proc., § 576.)¿¿¿ ¿ 
Permissible amendments pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) include amendments which
add causes of action.¿ A plaintiff who fails to plead a cause of action arising
out of the transaction or occurrence that gave rise to the complaint may apply
to the court for leave to amend the complaint to assert the cause of action,
whether that failure was the result of oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ The motion to amend may be filed at any time during
the action, on notice to the adverse party.¿ (Id., §
426.50.)¿ ¿ 
The court has broad discretion to
permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.”¿ (Howard v.
County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)¿ “The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend . . ..”¿¿ (Morgan v. Superior Court
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)¿ Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”¿ (Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿ ¿ 
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must
also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)¿
III.      ANALYSIS
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend
the complaint, asserting that new information from discovery justifies adding
allegations of gross negligence against Defendants. Plaintiff relies on
depositions of Francesca Levy and Omar Castro, contending that Defendants'
failure to properly maintain the treadmill’s PC Boards demonstrates gross
negligence. (Motion, p. 3; Roesler Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) Plaintiff argues that the
proposed amendment does not change the underlying facts or causes of action, as
Defendants had notice of the allegations through discovery. Plaintiff also
claims that denial would necessitate filing a separate action, burdening
judicial resources. (Motion, p. 6) Trial is set for April 8, 2025, which
Plaintiff asserts provides sufficient time for additional discovery. (Id.)
Defendants oppose the motion,
arguing Plaintiff failed to comply with Rule 3.1324(b), as the supporting
declaration does not sufficiently explain why the amendment is necessary and
proper. (Opposition, p. 3.) Defendants contend the proposed amendments merely
elaborate on existing claims by specifying the PC Boards, which Plaintiff can
address in opposition to Defendants’ pending summary judgment motion.
(Opposition, pp. 3-4.) Defendants further argue that allowing the amendment
would delay resolution of the case, as their summary judgment motion, based on
the original complaint, is scheduled for hearing on January 16, 2025.
(Opposition, pp. 5-6.)
The Court finds Defendants'
arguments persuasive. While California law generally favors granting leave to
amend pleadings, such motions must comply with procedural requirements.
Plaintiff’s declaration fails to sufficiently explain why the amendment is necessary
and proper, as required by Rule 3.1324(b). Additionally, Defendants’ contention
that the proposed amendment merely refines existing claims by specifying the PC
Boards is well-taken, as Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the additional
allegations are essential to their case.
Furthermore, the Court notes that
Plaintiff has not filed a reply to Defendants' opposition, leaving Defendants'
arguments uncontested. This failure to address the procedural deficiencies
raised by Defendants further supports denying the motion. Based on the
procedural defects and the lack of necessity for the proposed amendment, the
Court DENIES Plaintiff's request for leave to amend.
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to to file the FAC. 
Plaintiff is to give notice. 
 
Dated: December 19 2024                                                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 