 Case Number:  21STCV22304    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment
 
Moving
Party: Vazgen Hakopian
Resp.
Party:    Ari
Chazanas and Modern Adjustment Bureau
 
 
The Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On June 15,
2021, Ari Chazanas filed his Complaint against Vazgen Hakopian (also known as
Vazgen Hakobian) on causes of action for breach of contract, fraud, negligence,
restitution pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 7031, and money
had and received. 
 
On October
29, 2021, Vazgen Hakopian filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On November
12, 2021, Vazgen Hakopian filed his Verified Cross-Complaint against Ari
Chazanas, Lotus West Properties, Inc., Demetra Chazanas, and Demetra Design
Corp.
 
On June 24,
2022, the Court ordered Vazgen Hakopian to provide initial discovery responses to
certain form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
admission. 
 
On September
12, 2022, the Court stayed this matter in its entirety. 
 
On July 13,
2023, the Court lifted the stay on the case in its entirety. 
 
On July 17,
2023, the Court granted the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Edgar
Martirosyan, who was at the time Counsel for Vazgen Hakopian. 
 
On September
11, 2023, Vazgen Hakopian did not appear at the Status Conference on September
11, 2023 and he did not file a Status Conference Report for that hearing. 
 
On September
29, 2023, the Court issued a Temporary Protective Order against in favor of Ari
Chazanas and against Vazgen Hakopian. 
 
On November
9, 2023, the Court issued a Right to Attach Order against Vazgen Hakopian. As
noted by the Court, Vazgen Hakopian did not file an opposition. 
 
On November
9, 2023, the Court granted Ari Chazanas’s Motion for Terminating and/or Issue,
Evidence, and Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Comply with the Court’s June
24, 2022 Order (“Motion for Terminating Sanctions”). The Court struck Vazgen
Hakopian’s Answer to the Complaint and dismissed with prejudice his Verified
Cross-Complaint. As noted by the Court, Vazgen Hakopian did not file an
opposition. 
 
On December
14, 2023, by request of Ari Chazanas, the Clerk’s Office entered default on
Vazgen Hakopian. On that same day, Ari Chazanas filed various documents in
support of default judgment. 
 
On December
15, 2023, by request of Ari Chazanas, the Clerk’s Office dismissed the doe defendants
from the Complaint. 
 
On December
21, 2023, the Court granted in part Ari Chazanas’s Request for Default
Judgment. The Court awarded default judgment in favor of Ari Chazanas and
against Vazgen Hakopian in the total amount of $201,733.11. 
 
On December
22, 2023, the Court entered Judgment. On that same day, the Clerk’s Office
mailed Notice of Entry of Judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
664.5 and 1013a.
 
On January 4,
2023, Ari Chazanas filed Assignment of Judgment, assigning his interest in the
Judgment to Modern Adjustment Bureau. 
 
On March 27,
2024, Vazgen Hakopian filed his Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment
(“Motion”). Vazgen Hakopian concurrently filed his Proof of Service. 
 
On April 19,
2024, Ari Chazanas filed his Opposition to the Motion (“Chazanas Opposition”).
In support of the Chazanas Opposition, Ari Chazanas concurrently filed: (1)
Appendix of Evidence; (2) Declaration of James Kawahito; (3) Declaration of
Sean Smith; (4) Declaration of Ari Chazanas; (5) Request for Judicial Notice;
(6) Evidentiary Objection to Declaration of Vazgen Hakopian; (7) Proposed
Order; and (8) Proof of Service. 
 
On April 19,
2024, Modern Adjustment Bureau filed its Opposition to the Motion (“MAB
Opposition”). In support of the MAB Opposition, Modern Adjustment Bureau
concurrently filed: (1) Appendix of Evidence; (2) Declaration of James
Kawahito; (3) Declaration of Sean Smith; (4) Declaration of Ari Chazanas; (5)
Request for Judicial Notice; (6) Evidentiary Objection to Declaration of Vazgen
Hakopian; (7) Proposed Order; and (8) Proof of Service.
 
Vazgen
Hakopian did not file a reply or other response in support of his Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Preliminary Note
 
On January 4,
2023, Ari Chazanas filed Assignment of Judgment, assigning his interest in the
Judgment to Modern Adjustment Bureau. 
 
        Here, Ari
Chazanas and Modern Adjustment Bureau have filed two sets of documents in
opposition to the Motion. The two sets of documents are substantively
identical.
 
        It is
not immediately clear to the Court why they have done this. However, as Vazgen
Hakopian has not raised any objections to both Chazanas and MAB filing oppositions,
the Court simply cites to both the Chazanas Opposition and the MAB Opposition
were appropriate. 
 
 
II.       Evidentiary
Objections
 
Ari Chazanas and
Modern Adjustment Bureau object to Vazgen Hakopian’s evidence. Specifically,
they object on the bases of hearsay and lack of authentication to paragraphs 1
through 7 of the Declaration of Vazgen Hakopian and Exhibit 1. 
 
The Court OVERRULES
these objections. 
 
 
III.     Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Ari Chazanas and
Modern Adjustment Bureau request that the Court take judicial notice of fifteen
different items, some of which are items filed in this matter and others which
are items filed in other matters. 
 
The Court DENIES
as superfluous judicial notice of items filed in this matter, including prior
Orders issued by the Court in this matter. Any party that wishes to draw the
Court’s attention to an item filed in this action may simply cite directly to
the document by execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1110(d).)
 
The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to
the rest of the items, which were filed in other matters. None of these items
have any relevance to the issues in this matter. “Although a court may judicially
notice a variety of matters (Evid. Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant
material may be noticed.” (Am. Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn. 7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)
 
IV.      Legal
Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or
declaration of merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
 
V.        
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Vazgen Hakopian
moves the Court for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b). (Motion, pp. 1:17–22, 2:5–20.) Specifically, Vazgen Hakopian
moves the Court to set aside the default and default judgment entered against
him “due to extrinsic mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.” (Id. at
p. 5:10–12.)
 
Vazgen Hakopian
argues: (1) that he did not have legal counsel after June 17, 2023, which led
to him not receive various items, such as notice of the hearing on the Motion
for Terminating Sanctions; (2) that he was involved in a major vehicle accident
on June 18, 2023, which (a) incapacitated him due to internal injuries, (b)
required him to undergo surgery on September 26, 2023, and (c) required him to
stay at his parents’ resident in Burbank until the end of 2023; (3) that he was
unable to comply with the Court’s discovery order or show up at the November 9,
2023 hearing on the Motion for Terminating Sanctions because of his accident;
and (4) that dismissal of a criminal case occurred because the City Attorney
did not have sufficient evidence. (Motion, pp. 2:22–3:23.)
 
Ari Chazanas and
Modern Adjustment Bureau disagree, arguing: (1) that Vazgen Hakopian has not
presented a valid basis for setting aside a default judgment under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b); (2) that he was properly served
on October 17, 2023 when he instructed Sean Smith to leave the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions on his porch; (3) that he had notice of the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions and could have appeared at the hearing; (4) that he has
offered no medical evidence that he was incapacitated; and (5) that if the
Court sets aside the default judgment, the Court should impose conditions.
(Chazanas Opposition, pp. 9:13–14, 10:3–5, 10:21–22, 11:21–22, 13:17–18; MAB
Opposition, pp. 9:13–14, 10:3–5, 10:21–22, 11:21–22, 13:17–18.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Vazgen Hakopian declares
that he “never received plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions which was
heard on November 9, 2023.” (Motion, Decl. Hakopian, ¶ 6.)
 
In direct
contradiction, Ari Chazanas and Modern Adjustment Bureau tender the Declaration
of Sean Smith, a registered process server. Among other things, Sean Smith
declares: (1) that on October 17, 2023, he personally served the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions and concurrently-filed documents on Vazgen Hakopian at
3402 Genoa Place, Palmdale, California 93551; (2) that when he arrived at 3402
Genoa Place, he rang the ringer and received a response through a
camera/intercom system; (3) that he asked to speak with “Hakobian”; (4) that
the speaker identified himself as Hakobian; (5) that Sean Smith informed
Hakobian that Sean Smith was attempting to serve Hakobian with legal papers;
(6) that Hakobian told Sean Smith to leave the papers on the porch; (7) that
Sean Smith left the envelope with the papers on the porch; and (8) that Sean
Smith took pictures of the home, the intercom system, and the envelope that was
left at the home. (Decl. Smith, ¶¶ 4–6.) The related Proofs of Service and
pictures are also provided to the Court. (Appendix of Evidence, Exhs. D–F.)
 
There are three
primary issues with Vazgen Hakopian’s arguments and evidence. The Court also
notes an ancillary issue. 
 
1.      Logical
Issues with Hakopian’s Arguments and Evidence
 
As a preliminary issue,
many of the dates he cites are incorrect. For example, his counsel was relieved
of duty on July 17, 2023, not June 17, 2023. Other dates also appear to be
incorrect. 
 
More importantly,
even if the Court were to believe Vazgen Hakopian’s claims that he was
incapacitated and did not receive notice for roughly the entire second half of
2023, that still would not explain why he completely stopped participating in
the litigation of this matter. After all, he knew he was being sued, and he
also had his Verified Cross-Complaint against multiple cross-defendants. Given
that he has not alleged he was comatose, the least he could have done was
either: (1) contacted Department 34 to notify the Court of what had occurred;
or (2) send a family member (such as those he was allegedly staying with) to
check his home for mail. Those are logical things that one would do if they
were actually unable to return home but still had obligations to care for. 
 
These logical
issues greatly diminish Vazgen Hakopian’s credibility.
 
2.      The
Evidence Does Not Support His Arguments
 
Second, the
evidence Vazgen Hakopian presents do not support his arguments. 
 
Upon review of the
documents Vazgen Hakopian presents, it does not appear that he was so
incapacitated as to be unable to participate in this litigation. For example,
the document dated September 12, 2023, notes that Vazgen Hakopian was able to
be evaluated in the orthopedic office — indicating that Vazgen
Hakopian was not so incapacitated that he was unable to travel to his doctor’s
office. (Motion, Exh. 1, p. 1.) Further, the document states that Vazgen
Hakopian was able to provide the orthopedic surgeon with information by
stating that information through an English/Armenian interpreter —
indicating that Vazgen Hakopian was not mentally incapacitated. (Ibid.)
The document goes on to note that he “apparently is pending surgery in
[omitted] abdominal region”, but it also notes that “patient was advised to
perform a home exercise program with stretching” and that he “take ibuprofen
and Tylenol for control of pain” — mild prescriptions that do not indicate
Vazgen Hakopian was so incapacitated at this time that he could not participate
in this litigation. 
 
The evidence
presented by Vazgen Hakopian thus cuts against his arguments, further
diminishes his credibility, and actually supports the arguments made by Ari
Chazanas and Modern Adjustment Bureau. 
 
3.         
There is No Mistake, Inadvertence, Surprise, or
Excusable Neglect Here
 
Finally, the Court
notes that it only has discretion to grant the relief requested pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) when there has been
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
None of those
appear to have occurred here. 
 
The Court finds
Sean Smith to be credible, and it appears to the Court that the evidence taken
as a whole is consistent with a finding that Vazgen Hakopian was personally
served with notice of the Motion for Terminating Sanctions. 
 
Furthermore, given
the arguments and evidence presented, it would seem that Vazgen Hakopian did
not take reasonable steps to participate in this litigation, despite his
ability to do so. Rather, the evidence indicates that he took steps to avoid
this litigation and intentionally stopped participating in it. 
 
It must be remembered
that Vazgen Hakopian had terminating sanctions issued against him because he
failed to obey a June 24, 2022 Court order to comply with discovery. In other words,
Vazgen Hakopian had terminating sanctions imposed because he ignored a Court
Order and his obligations to participate in discovery for more than a year.
 
The Court has not
been presented with any credible evidence to show Vazgen Hakopian had default
judgment taken against him due to his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. On the contrary, the Court has been provided with ample
reason to believe that Vazgen Hakopian had default judgment taken against him
due to his intentional avoidance of this litigation. 
 
Thus, the Court
lacks the discretion here to grant the relief requested. 
 
4.      The
Criminal Matter is Irrelevant
 
The Court briefly
notes that the dismissed criminal matter is completely irrelevant to the
Court’s assessment of the Motion. 
 
VI.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment is DENIED. 
 