..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 23GDCV00128
Plaintiff's Name: Armik Armen Aslanian and EK Design, Inc.
Defendant's Name: Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
People-Names: Armik Armen Aslanian, EK Design, Inc., and Ameripour
Company-Names: Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, Calstar Motors Inc., and Mercedes-Benz of Calabasas
Places: California
Dates: November 2021, July 26, 2024
Events: Lease of vehicle, delivery of vehicle with defects, attempts to repair vehicle, lawsuit filed
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To compel arbitration and stay the proceedings
Facts: Plaintiffs leased a 2021 Mercedes-Benz G-Class from Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC. The vehicle was delivered with defects and was not repaired properly. Plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act, breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, and negligent repair.
Disputes: Whether the arbitration provision in the Lease Contract is enforceable against non-signatory defendants
Acts: Movement to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings
Agreements: Lease Contract between Calstar Motors Inc. and EK Design, Inc.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Evidence Code, Federal Arbitration Act
Case Citations: Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership, Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic, Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Felisilda v. FCA US LLC, Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC, B Kramer v. Toyota Motor Corp., Ford Motor Warranty Cases
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2, California Evidence Code Section 1400, California Evidence Code Section 702
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Court
Significant Statements:
- The court notes that the Lease Contract refers to plaintiffs as "you, your, and yours" and the lessor as "we, us, and our."
- The arbitration clause in the Lease Contract provides that any dispute between the parties shall be resolved by arbitration.
- The court finds that the language in the Lease Contract does not include the critical language found in Felisilda, which encompasses a dispute that arises out of or relates to the "condition of this vehicle."
- The court notes that the Ninth Circuit has distinguished Felisilda in recent cases, such as Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC, and B Kramer v. Toyota Motor Corp.
- The court concludes that the non-signatory defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, cannot invoke equitable estoppel to compel arbitration.
```

Summary:

The court is considering a motion to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings in a lawsuit brought by plaintiffs Armik Armen Aslanian and EK Design, Inc. against Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC. The plaintiffs leased a 2021 Mercedes-Benz G-Class from Calstar Motors Inc. and delivered the vehicle with defects. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC is seeking to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings based on an arbitration provision in the Lease Contract between Calstar Motors Inc. and EK Design, Inc. However, the court finds that the arbitration provision does not apply to the non-signatory defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, and that the doctrine of equitable estoppel does not apply in this case. The court notes that the Ninth Circuit has distinguished Felisilda in recent cases, such as Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC, and B Kramer v. Toyota Motor Corp., and concludes that the non-signatory defendant cannot invoke equitable estoppel to compel arbitration.
