  Case Number:  22GDCV00379    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:    1 Date:         7/26/2024 Case No:     22 GDCV00379 Trial Date: September 9, 2024  Case Name: Kechichian v. LeeDISCOVERY MOTIONS (4 Motions)Moving Party:  Defendant Linda K. Lee   Responding Party: Plaintiff Jean Kechichian   RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Three   Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Three   Order Deeming Requests for Admissions, Set Three, Admitted CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     April 12, 2024, email   Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED  Date Motion served:   May 23, 2024   Timely ANALYSIS:ProceduralUntimely OppositionThe opposition was not timely filed with the court.   Under CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, the opposition was filed on July 16, 2024, for a July 26, 2024 hearing date, only eight court days prior to the hearing, so was one court day late.   However, it appears from the proof of service filed that the opposition was served on July 15, 2024, timely, permitting moving party sufficient time to respond and file a timely reply.  The court will consider the opposition, but plaintiff is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. SubstantiveInterrogatories and DocumentsUnder CCP § 2030.290, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any legal right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  CCP §2031.300 contains similar provisions with respect to requests to produce documents.In this case, interrogatories and document production demands have been directed to responding party, and responding party has failed to serve timely responses.  Propounding party appropriately has moved for orders to compel.  Accordingly, responding party has waived the option to produce writings, as well as all objections, and propounding party is entitled to orders compelling plaintiff to respond.  Plaintiff in opposition argues that defendant is improperly attempting to raise the costs of this litigation by serving duplicative and improper discovery which does not apply to the remaining issues in this case. Specifically, plaintiff argues that in this property dispute action, the court in its October 27, 2023 ruling on plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment/adjudication granted the motion in part and declared that the proper designation of the property line is that set forth in the Corner Record from the Deputy County Surveyor, and declared that the current fence, “located on plaintiff’s property pursuant to the survey and the acknowledgment of the parties, is subject to removal.”  [Minute Order, 10/27/2023, p. 17]. Plaintiff argues that despite the court’s ruling, defendant propounded four separate sets each of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Admissions, and Requests for Production of Documents.  Plaintiff indicates that plaintiff has responded to Set One and Set Two, and produced documents.  Plaintiff has also served supplemental responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Sets One and Two, Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Sets One and Two.   [Exs. 6-12].   Plaintiff also indicates that in a show of good faith, plaintiff has served responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Four, Special Interrogatories, Set Four, Requests for Production, Set Four, and Requests for Admissions, Set Four, [Exs. 14-17]. Plaintiff does not indicate anywhere in the opposition or in the declaration of counsel that plaintiff has timely served responses to any of the discovery propounded as Set Three, the discovery at issue in these motions.  Plaintiff accordingly has apparently conceded and does not dispute that plaintiff has failed to serve timely responses.   There is no legal authority cited by plaintiff pursuant to which a responding party may simply fail to timely respond to discovery on the ground the responding party deems the discovery excessive, that the discovery seeks information which has been deemed irrelevant or moot by a court’s ruling on summary adjudication, or that the discovery is propounded solely to harass the responding party, forcing responding party to incur expense and into an unfavorable settlement position.  If plaintiff had valid objections that the discovery was burdensome or oppressive, or fell outside the scope of permissible discovery in this action, plaintiff should have responded timely to the discovery asserting such objections to preserve those objections, which, as discussed above, have now been waived.  The burden is now on plaintiff to file a separate motion for relief from the waiver of objections which occurred when plaintiff, evidently intentionally, permitted the time within which responses were due to pass without responding or requesting an extension of time to respond. CCP section 2030.290 provides:“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).  The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both the following conditions are satisfied:(1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Section 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.”A similar provision applies to document demands under CCP § 2031.300 (a).   Plaintiff has evidently not filed or served a motion for relief from waiver of objections. In the alternative, plaintiff should have promptly sought a protective order if plaintiff desired to avoid responding to these sets of discovery altogether, and affirmatively met plaintiff’s burden of establishing good cause for not being required to respond.  In connection with interrogatories, CCP §§ 2030.090(a) provides:“When interrogatories have been propounded, the responding party, and any other party or affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” CCP § 2030.090(b) provides, in pertinent part:   “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: (1) That the set of interrogatories, or particular interrogatories in the set, need not be answered….”With respect to written demands for inspection of documents, CCP §2031.060 subdivisions (a) and (b) provide similar procedures for moving for a protective order to avoid responding to such a demand. Plaintiff has not filed with the court any such motions.   Plaintiff has not cited any legal authority under which plaintiff’s conduct in not timely responding to the discovery does not give rise to defendant’s entitlement to orders compelling plaintiff to respond, without objections.  The motions accordingly are granted, and plaintiff is ordered to serve responses to the subject discovery, without objections. Requests for AdmissionsUnder CCP § 2033.280, a party who fails to serve a timely response to requests for admissions “waives any objection to the requests….”   In addition, the requesting party may move for an order that “the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction....”   CCP § 2033.280(b).  The Code specifies that “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admissions have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the request for admissions that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP § 2033.280(c).   In this case, requests for admissions were served on responding party on April 12, 2024, by email.  Responding party evidently did not request or obtain an extension of time within which to respond.  Responses were accordingly due by May 14, 2024.  As of the filing of the motion on May 23, 2024, no responses had been served.  Plaintiff has failed to serve timely responses and therefore has waived all objections.  Defendant has filed a noticed motion requesting an order that the requests be deemed admitted as truth.  The opposition does not indicate that plaintiff intends to serve responses but argues that plaintiff should not have to respond at all.  Again, plaintiff has not filed a separate motion for relief from waiver of objections or sought a protective order.  See CCP §§ 2033.280 (a) and 2033.080, subdivisions (a) and (b).    Unless verified responses that are in substantial compliance with CCP § 2033.220 are served before the hearing, the court must grant the motion.SanctionsWith respect to Requests for Admissions, CCP § 2033.280(c) provides: “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admissions necessitated this motion.”With respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  A similar provision applies to document demands.  See CCP § 2031.300(c).CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP § 2023.030(a).  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, the motion to deem requests for admissions is granted.  Hence, under the statute, the imposition of monetary sanctions in mandatory.   With respect to interrogatories and the document demand, responding party unsuccessfully has opposed the motions to compel, responding party has failed to respond to authorized methods of discovery and propounding and moving party has submitted evidence that it has incurred expenses as a result of the conduct. Plaintiff in opposition argues that plaintiff properly should be awarded sanctions for having to oppose these frivolous motions.  The opposition argues that the motions are without merit and should be denied, so that defendant is not entitled to monetary sanctions.  The motions in fact have merit, and are granted, so plaintiff unsuccessfully has opposed them.  The plaintiff has not justified any failure to timely respond without filing a motion for protective order or has shown that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust.       As noted above, the sanctions in connection with the motion concerning the Requests for Admissions are in any case mandatory.   Sanctions are awarded to defendant.  No sanctions are awarded to plaintiff.  Defendant requests $1,844.20 for each of the four motions brought. (The declaration supports that $1,844.40 has been incurred, but the court will consider only the sum requested in the notices of motion).  This amount seems a bit high for motions of this nature, which are largely cut and pasted from each other, and some adjustment will be made.  The opposition argues that the motion to compel responses to form interrogatories concerns only one interrogatory, Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, but seeks the same sum as requested in the other motions.  It is not clear why the number of discovery requests impact the time to prepare a motion to compel responses, as opposed to further responses.    The sanctions sought include one hour at $395 per hour to attend the hearing, when all four motions will be heard together.  The sanctions are reduced accordingly as follows: 2.5 attorney hours for each motion at $395.00 per hour with a one time add on charge of 1 hour at $395.00 per hour to attend the hearing remotely.RULING:The Court notes that plaintiff has filed one set of opposition papers to all four of the motions set for hearing this date.  That opposition was filed only eight court days prior to the hearing, so one court day late, in violation of CCP §1005(b).  The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition, only because the opposition was evidently timely served.  However, plaintiff is cautioned that in the future that plaintiff must comply with both service and filing deadlines, and that the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Motion to Compel Responses by Plaintiff Jean Kechichian to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Three, is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jean Kechichian is ordered to serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories—General, Set No. Three, without objection, within 10 days.Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,382.50 (3.5 hours @ $395 per hour) [4.5 hours requested] plus $66.90 filing fee [Amount Requested $1,844.20], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Linda K. Lee and against plaintiff Jean Kechichian, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a). Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Motion to Compel Responses by Plaintiff Jean Kechichian to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three, is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jean Kechichian is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Special Interrogatories (Set Three) Propounded on Plaintiff Jean Kechichian, without objection, within 10 days.Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $987.50 (2.5 hours @ $395 per hour) [4.5 hours requested] plus $66.90 filing fee [Amount Requested $1,844.20], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Linda K. Lee and against plaintiff Jean Kechichian, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a). Monetary Sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Motion to Compel Responses by Plaintiff Jean Kechichian to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Three, is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jean Kechichian is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Request for Production of Documents (Set Three) Propounded on Plaintiff Jean Kechichian, without objection, and to permit inspection and copying within 10 days.Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $987.50 (2.5 hours @ $395 per hour) [4.5 hours requested] plus $66.90 filing fee [Amount Requested $1,844.20], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Linda K. Lee and against plaintiff Jean Kechichian, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2031.300(c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a).Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Motion to Deem Facts Admitted is GRANTED. Plaintiff Jean Kechichian has failed to serve timely responses substantially complying with the provisions of CCP § 2033.220 prior to the hearing on this motion.  The Court therefore orders that all matters specified in Defendant Linda K. Lee’s Requests for Admissions (Set Three) Propounded on Plaintiff Jean Kechichian are deemed admitted as true, pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(c).  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $987.50 (2.5 hours @ $395 per hour) [4.5 hours requested] plus $66.90 filing fee [Amount Requested $1,844.20], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Linda K. Lee and against plaintiff Jean Kechichian, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2033.280(c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a). Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 