 Case Number:  22SMCV01262    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Williams v. the
Medical Office of Dr. Jamie S. Schwartz, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01262
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   2/14/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ objections to are SUSTAINED as to nos. 6, 11,
12, 14-16, 18-20, 23-27, 29, and 30, but otherwise OVERRULED. Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s claim that the signature was a forgery contradicts prior
deposition testimony. (Supp. Caballes Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. I.) A close reading of
the transcript, however, reveals that Plaintiff never confirms or denies
that it was her signature. Plaintiff states that she was not immediately
familiar with the form, and it did “look like” it had her signature, but also
that it was “not my normal hand signature.” At best, Plaintiff recollects that
she received “several” online documents, and did not know the difference, and
that it was “probably” one of the ones she received online.
 
Critically, Defendants object to the declarations of Plaintiff’s
experts, Dr. Fodor and Dr. Shear, arguing that the experts are not qualified to
opine as to the standard of care in this matter, and that they provide opinions
without reasoned explanations, rendering them without evidentiary value. However,
Plaintiff’s experts provide foundation for their specialized knowledge,
skill, experience, training, or education in this specific area of medicine:
lipedema surgery. Dr. Shear is a trained and licensed dermatologist, familiar
with the standard of care with lipedema surgical operations as well as medical
causation. Dr. Fodor is a board-certified plastic surgeon, has longstanding
general surgery experience, and is familiar with the standard of care for
plastic surgery. Their cited credentials qualify them as competent experts able
to opine on the duty of care and causation in this action. Furthermore, the
declarations do not lack in
foundation, as they explain the record relied upon, almost all of which is
presented as a part of this motion. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ objections to the Fodor
declaration are OVERRULED. Defendants’ objections to the Shear declaration are
OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the Caballes declaration are
OVERRULED. These objections go to the weight of the evidence, not
admissibility.
 
Finally, the Court strikes Plaintiff’s sur-reply filed on
February 13, 2024.  The Rules
of Court contemplate only moving, opposition, and reply papers. (Cal. R. of
Court 3.1113(d).) Petitions to confirm arbitration awards are heard in the
manner of motions. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1290.2.) As there are no sur-replies
or other pleadings to respond to a Reply permitted by the Code of Civil
Procedure or the Rules of Court, the Court strikes the sur-reply.  Counsel will have the opportunity to explain at
the hearing why he should not be sanctioned for filing this unauthorized brief.
 
Analysis
 

Defendants Jamie S. Schwartz MD and
Jamie S. Schwartz MD, PC, move for summary judgment or adjudication of each
cause of action. Defendants argue that the causes of action for negligent
medical malpractice, battery, and breach of contract have no merit because: (1)
the care and treatment Dr. Schwartz rendered to Plaintiff was at all times
appropriate and complied with the standard of care, negating breach of duty;
(2) nothing Dr. Schwartz did or failed to do caused or contributed to any
injury alleged by Plaintiff, negating legal causation; (3) Dr. Schwartz did not
negligently cause injury to Plaintiff, negating resultant damages; (4)
Plaintiff consented to the surgery performed by Dr. Schwartz; (5) Dr. Schwartz
had a good-faith belief that Plaintiff consented to the surgery performed, and
thus did not intend to harm Plaintiff; (6) there was no agreement between the
parties that Dr. Schwartz would not operate on Plaintiff’s legs; (7)
Plaintiff’s claim sounds in tort, not contract; and (8) because liability against
the Corporation is premised on a theory of vicarious liability and there is no
triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claims for negligent medical
malpractice, battery, and breach of contract as to Dr. Schwartz, the
Corporation cannot be liable for same.
 
In a medical malpractice action, the
elements are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill,
prudence and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury;
and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence
(citations omitted).” (Banerian v. O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604,
612.)
 
In medical malpractice actions, duty is
measured by the standard of care in the medical community. (Munro v. Regents
of the University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977). “The standard
of care in a medical malpractice case requires that physicians exercise in
diagnosis and treatment a reasonable degree of skill, knowledge and care
ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical profession under
similar circumstances.” (Id. at 983-984.) Breach of the standard of care
may only be proven by expert testimony.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976)
17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) Thus, in order to support a claim of medical malpractice,
a plaintiff must prove that the professional services rendered was below the
standard of care in the medical profession via competent expert testimony. (Ibid.)

 
“‘When a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.’
” (Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
977, 984-985.)
 
The operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) asserts causes of action for negligent medical malpractice,
battery, and breach of contract. The SAC alleges that “Defendants breached
their duty [to perform medical services competently] by negligently performing
liposuction on Plaintiff’s lower legs” and that “Defendants agreed to refrain
from performing liposuction on Plaintiff’s calves. Contrary to the agreement of
the parties – and against Plaintiff’s consent --, after Mrs. Williams was
anesthetized and unconscious Dr. Schwartz performed liposuction on Plaintiff’s
lower legs.” (UMF 3.) Further, Plaintiff claims that because Defendants
breached their contract to competently practice medicine, their bills for the
liposuction procedures to Ms. Williams’ lower legs must be reimbursed in full.
(UMF 4.)
 
Defendants present evidence that
the care and treatment Dr. Schwartz rendered to Plaintiff complied with the
standard of care, negating breach of duty, causation, and resulting damages.
Defendants provide an inordinate number of “material” facts in support of
these.  To summarize the relevant material
facts, Defendants submit the declaration of Karol A. Gutowski, M.D., a
board-certified plastic surgeon, who declares that he is familiar with the
standard of care applicable to Dr. Schwartz and that he otherwise possesses the
professional education, training, and experience necessary to qualify to render
expert opinions in this case, including a determination of compliance or
non-compliance with the applicable standard of care, causation and damages.
(Gutowski Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Exh. A.) Dr. Gutowski opines that Dr. Schwartz complied
with the standard of care in treating Plaintiff based on the totality of the
record. (UMF 271-275.) Further, Dr. Gutowski opines to a reasonable degree of medical
probability that no negligent act or omission of Dr. Schwartz caused or
contributed to injury or damage to Plaintiff. (UMF 276-278.) Reviewing the
cited declaration and UMFs, Defendants meet their burden to demonstrate that
they met the standard of care, and thus did not breach any duty or proximately
cause Plaintiffs’ alleged damages. 
 
Plaintiffs, in response, meet their
burden to contest this expert opinion with their own expert testimony. Plaintiff
present evidence that Dr. Schwartz failed to meet the standard of care of
plastic surgeons, or any other doctor, with respect to all of Dr. Schwartz’
treatments of Plaintiff. (See, e.g., UMF 271.) The subject lipedema reduction
surgery to Plaintiff’s body above her knees was not indicated and Dr.
Schwartz’ surgeries on September 22, 2021, and October 6, 2021, were
inappropriate. 
 
Dr. Fodor provides a foundation for
his opinions based on the medical records presented in this action. (See Fodor
Decl., §§ II-III.) Dr. Fodor declares that the September 22, 2021, surgery was
a “high volume” removal procedure, where the fat and tissue removed exceeds
4,000 cc's in a single surgical session. (Fodor Decl., ¶ 3.) These types of
high-volume procedures require additional precautionary steps, including
raising the temperature of the operating room to a temperature which would help
to prevent hypothermia, and to reduce the risk of a untoward or metabolic
effects, such as metabolic acidosis cardiac arrest or microcirculatory
deficiency, seroma, hematoma and even cardio-pulmonary events during and after
the surgery. (Id.) Furthermore, Dr. Shwartz should have used warming electric
blankets above and under Plaintiff to prevent hypothermia. (Id.) Additionally, Dr.
Shwartz should have used warming intravenous fluids prior to the removal of the
fat tissue. (Id.) These procedures were not done during the September 22, 2021,
surgery. (Id.) Further, Dr. Fodor claims that on October 6, 2021, Dr. Shwartz
improperly recommended another surgical procedure, where the additional surgery
represented additional trauma in an area where the skin already showed signs of
circulatory compromise. (Id., ¶4.) As such, additional diagnostic procedures,
such as an ultrasound examination could have been done to determine the nature
of the surgical site issues. (Id.) Contingent on those findings, a much less
invasive procedure such as an ultrasound guided fluid aspiration could have
been done. (Id.) However, Ms. Williams was returned to the operating room that
same day, which did not allow for sufficient time for healing and recovery from
the prior surgery. (Id.) Further, Dr. Fodor states that the operating report
indicates that Dr. Schwartz extended previous incisions and removed additional
fat from the same surgical site. (¶ 5.) Dr. Fodor explains that a more
conservative approach, such as observation and ultrasound aspiration, should
have been considered before the additional manipulation of enlarging the
incisions and additional removal of tissue. (Id.) Dr. Fodor states that there
is a high probability that the second procedure interfered with skin
microcirculation contributing to bilateral tissue loss of significant size and
depth on the inside of Ms. William's inner knees, as well as below the knees
and in the calf muscles. (Id.) Dr. Fodor concludes that Dr. Schwartz did not
meet the standard of care for plastic surgeons, since he failed to adhere to
the express wishes of Plaintiff by performing lipedema surgery in the area of
the inner knees and below. (¶ 8.) 
 
Dr. Shear echoes Dr. Fodor’s
opinions. Dr. Shear notes that Dr. Schwartz removed an “exceptional” volume of
tissue, which was excessive since there were insufficient precautionary
measures taken to protect Plaintiff from hypothermia. (Shear Decl., ¶6.) Dr. Shear
states that Dr. Schwartz breached the standard of care by: failing to inform
Plaintiff of the precautionary measures and the risks associated with removing
an exceptional volume of fat; failing to obtain consent from Plaintiff for such
precautions; by going against Plaintiff’s express wishes; operating below
Plaintiff’s knees (which is extremely rare and constitutes a breach of the
standard whether or not Plaintiff consented); having a second operation so soon
after the first surgery; not properly treating the developing ulcers on
Plaintiff’s lower legs that he caused; and failing to keep clear and reliable
notes on the surgeries. (Id., ¶ 8.) Dr. Shear concludes that there is an
“extremely high medical probability” that the excessive amount of fat removed
during surgery caused Plaintiff’s body to undergo a metabolic cascade of
deleterious effects, including acidosis and interference with the circulation
on the skin. (Id.) Dr. Shear also concludes that Dr. Schwartz contributed to
all of Plaintiff’s injuries, since but for Dr. Schwartz’s excessive removal of
the tissue, the failure guard against hypothermia, and the second surgery,
Plaintiffs’ wounds would never have existed, opened up, blistered, burst, or
suffered necrosis. (Id. ¶ 9.)  
 
In light of the conflicting expert
opinions on this matter, summary adjudication of the medical malpractice claim
is improper.
 
Medical Battery/Breach of Contract
 
“The essential elements of a cause of
action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to
be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
669.)  “[A] battery is an intentional tort that occurs when a doctor
performs a procedure without obtaining any consent.”  (Saxena v.
Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 324.) A battery also occurs
“[w]here a doctor obtains consent of the patient to perform one type of
treatment and subsequently performs a substantially different treatment for
which consent was not obtained . . . .”  (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 239.) 
 
            Defendants
present evidence that establish that Defendants gave certain warnings and did
not exceed Plaintiff’s expressed consent to the surgery. On September 9, 2021,
Plaintiff had a pre-operative visit related to the subject surgery. (UMF 60.)
Dr. Schwartz established that the surgical plan would be for lipedema reduction
surgery to Plaintiff’s anterior thighs and legs. (UMF 62.) Dr. Schwartz
believed that it was medically necessary to perform lipedema reduction surgery
on Plaintiff’s lower legs because there were visible effects of lipedema and
her functionality and mobility were to be improved. (UMF 63.) Among other
things, Dr. Schwartz discussed with Plaintiff that the results of surgery
cannot be guaranteed, that there is always the potential for postoperative
revision or other complications, and that, at the time of surgery, Dr. Schwartz
may decide not to perform all or part of the planned surgical procedure, at his
medical discretion. (UMF 64-71.) Plaintiff was given the opportunity to ask
questions, and signed forms entitled Consent for High Volume Liposuction in
Lipedema and Informed Consent – General Surgery, which disclosed the risks such
as healing issues, delayed healing, including death of skin, seroma, infection,
and bleeding. (UMF 72-74.) Evyn Escobar, Dr. Schwartz’s lipedema patient
coordinator, confirmed the surgical plans with Plaintiff. (UMF 75-78.)
Plaintiff was able to correctly describe the surgery, including that the
operation would entail surgery on her legs. (UMF 79.) Plaintiff did not feel
rushed and Dr. Schwartz was able to answer any questions Plaintiff had. (UMF
80-82.) The Consent forms explicitly listed “lipedema reduction surgery to
anterior legs and thighs” as the consented to procedure, after she allegedly
stated that she did not think she wanted Dr. Schwartz to operate below the
knee. (UF86, 103-105.) 
 
            On the day of her surgery, Plaintiff had a pre-op
consultation with Dr. Schwartz and Escobar, wherein Dr. Schwartz marked her
skin prior to the leg surgery. (UMF 83-84.) Plaintiff has testified that she
told Dr. Schwartz that she did not want him to go below the knees. (UMF 85.)
Plaintiff believed that she did not think that Dr. Schwartz needed to go below
the knees. (UMF 87-89.) Plaintiff also performed surgical site confirmation in
a mirror and concurred with Dr. Schwartz’s markings. (UMF 119.) Plaintiff did
not withdraw that explicit consent to lipedema reduction surgery to her
anterior legs and thighs before Dr. Schwartz performed surgery on her legs. (UMF
108.) Dr. Schwartz then performed lipedema reduction surgery of
Plaintiff’s anterior legs
and thighs. (UMF 109.) Defendants reason that because Plaintiff consented to
the procedure performed, lipedema reduction surgery to her anterior legs and
thighs, Plaintiff’s claims for battery and breach of contract fail.
 
Plaintiff presents a dispute of
fact as to the extent of her consent. For instance, Plaintiff disputes that she
signed the consent forms at issue. Plaintiff declares that the signature in
question is a forgery. (Williams Decl., ¶ 40.) Plaintiff explains that she clearly
instructed Dr. Schwartz not to operate below her knees. (Williams Decl., ¶¶
2-6, 7-8, 9- 15, 16-23, 24-28, 92-32, 33; Exs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.) However, while
performing an extraordinary removal of volume from Plaintiff, Dr. Schwartz went
against Plaintiffs’ instruction and operated on her lower legs without her consent.
(Williams Decl., ¶¶ 2-6, 7-8, 9-15, 16-23, 24-28, 92-32, 33.) In other words,
Plaintiff presents competent evidence that Defendants breached their contract for
surgery and committed medical battery. 
 
Plaintiff also notes holes in
specific evidence proffered by defendants. In particular, during the consent
video of September 22, 2021, Plaintiff notes that Dr. Schwartz suspiciously “confuses”
Escobar with the real person who was present for that video, Mersaydez McLucas.
(Id., ¶43-44.) Plaintiff also states that there are omitted portions of the
consent video which show Plaintiff stating that she did not want him to operate
below her knees, and that Dr. Schwartz agreed to refrain from operating on her
lower legs. (Id., ¶13.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
judgment/adjudication is DENIED. 