 Case Number:  22SMCV01356    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Skylark (UK) Servicing LLC v.
Hadid, et al.



Case No.:


22SMCV01356


Complaint Filed:


8-17-22           




Hearing Date:


3-14-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


3


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR APPOINTMENT OF
RECEIVER
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Skylark (UK)
Servicing, LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant Tree Lane,
LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff Skylark (UK) Servicing, LLC’s Motion for
Appointment of Receiver and Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.  
 
            The Court is may appoint a
receiver under Code of Civil Procedure §564(b)(9): “in all other cases where
necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 564, subd., (b)(9). The Court is also
permitted to appoint a receiver pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 564(b)(2), “In
an action by a secured lender for the foreclosure of a deed of trust or
mortgage and sale of property upon which there is a lien under a deed of trust
or mortgage, where it appears that the property is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of the deed of
trust or mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is probably
insufficient to discharge the deed of trust or mortgage debt.”  (Id., § 564,
subd., (b)(2).)  An agreement to
appoint a receiver after default under a deed of trust, while not dispositive,
establishes a prima facie entitlement to the appointment of a receiver under
CCP ¶ 564(b) and places the burden on the debtor to establish why a receiver
should not be appointed. (Barclays Bank of California v. Superior Court
(1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 593, 602.)
Skylark shows
 Defendant Tree Lane, LLC (“Tree Lane”)
agreed that, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, Skylark Servicer: 
[S]hall, as a matter of right,
without notice and without giving bond to Trustor or anyone claiming by, under
or through it, and without regard to the solvency or insolvency of Trustor or
the then value of the Mortgaged Property, be entitled to apply to have a
receiver appointed pursuant to applicable law of all or any part of the
Mortgaged Property and the Rents with such power as the court making such
appointment shall confer, and Trustor hereby consents to the appointment of
such receiver and shall not oppose any such appointment.
(FAC., Ex. 3 (“Deed of Trust”)
at p. 160, § 6.1.4, emphasis added )
It is undisputed that Tree
Lane defaulted under the terms of the loan documents. (Motion, pp. 8–9; FACC ¶
10(a); Mason Decl., ¶ 5.) Skylark shows Tree Lane waived its right to oppose
the appointment of a receiver in the Deed of Trust. Skylark shows that within section
8.2 of the Loan Agreement Tree Lane agreed to not contest any remedies sought
by Skylark in the event of a default. (See FAC, Ex. 1 (“Loan Agreement”) at p. 54,
§ 8.2(a) [“Lender may . . . Take possession of the Property and do anything
required, necessary or advisable in Lender’s sole judgment to fulfill the
Obligations of Borrower.”]
Skylark
persuasively shows the collateral is at risk and the appointment of a receiver
is necessary because Tree Lane is grossly delinquent on its property taxes (Lewis
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A), Tree Lane is subject to multiple mechanic’s and
materialmen’s liens from its former contractors” (Id., ¶ 5, Ex. B), Tree Lane is delinquent on its HOA fees (Id.,
¶ 7, Ex. C) and the Property is “the subject of at least two Notices of
Substandard Property recently filed by the City of Los Angeles on December 27,
2023” (Id., ¶ 8, Ex. D.)
            Further, Skylark shows under the Pledge Agreement Skylark
is entitled to “install an independent manager upon a default in respect of the
Summitridge Loan, and did so on November 27, 2023,” but Tree Lana has refused
to cooperate or engage with the Skylark’s appointed independent manager,
Matthew Mason. (Motion, p. 6; Gilbert Decl., ¶¶ 6–8, Ex. D “Pledge Agreement”);
Mason Decl., ¶¶ 7–8, Ex. C.)
            The Court finds that Skylark has met its prima facie case
to establish the need for a receiver appointment under CCP ¶ 564(b)(2). The
burden shifts to Tree Lane to rebut the appointment of a receiver, which Tree
Lane fails to do. Tree Lane argues against the appointment of a receiver by
pointing to the allegations in their First Amended Cross-Complaint. Tree Lane
does not provide any substantive evidence other than allegations in the FACC,
thus does not meeting their burden to rebut the agreed upon terms within the
Deed of Trust, Loan Agreement, and Pledge Agreement. (See Barclays, supra,
69 Cal.App.3d at p. 601 [While not dispositive, the deed of trust is given is
still given weight because the parties “agreed that, in case of a default, a
receiver shall be appointed.” 
            Skylark requests the Court appoint Matthew Mason
(“Mason”) as receiver because he “qualified under section 566,” not a party to
the action, and Mason is  qualified to
serve because he is a “Managing Director at Riveron RTS, LLC, a national real
estate consulting firm, and specializes in restructuring complex real estate
projects, including luxury residential properties, enclosed regional malls,
multi-state portfolios, and open-air lifestyle centers throughout the country.”
(Motion, p. 15; Mason Decl., ¶ 11.)   The Court will address at the hearing the
issue of Mr. Mason’s status as Skylark’s nominee to be the independent manager,
and the need for any independent manager if a receiver is appointed. 