  Case Number:  22GDCV00537    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WENDY RIVERA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
VOLVO
   CARS OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22GDCV00537
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   8, 2023




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff Wendy
Rivera (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant Volvo Cars of
North America, LLC (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One). In addition, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,287.50 against Defendant and its counsel of
record. By way of background, on May 15, 2021, Plaintiff purchased a 2018 Volvo
XC90 (“Vehicle”). (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleged that the Vehicle was
delivered to them with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, which
“manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including
but not limited to electrical, transmission, engine, and exterior.” (Compl., ¶
16.) Plaintiff also sued PVC Puente Hills, LLC dba Penske Hills LLC (“Penske
Volvo”, erroneously sued as “PVC Puente Hills, LLC dba Penske Volvo Cars”) for
negligent repair. 
Although the notice of motion seeks
further responses to RFP Nos. 18, 33-41, and 45-46, the separate statement only
addresses RFP Nos. 18, 37-41, and 45-46. (Compare Notice of Motion at p.
1 with Separate Statement.) The Court only rules on the RFPs listed in
the Separate Statement. 
RFP No. 18: Plaintiff requests the
franchise agreement between Defendant and the dealership which sold the Subject
Vehicle to her which was in effect on the date of the sale. Plaintiff argues
that the franchise agreement is necessary because the document will show
whether Defendant requires dealerships to report warranty repairs or the
handling of lemon law repurchases. In turn, whether Defendant was aware of the
repairs to the Subject Vehicle is probative of whether Defendant committed a
“willful” failure to comply with the Song-Beverly Act by refusing to promptly
repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff also argues that the
franchise agreement will establish that the dealership is Defendant’s agent. 
          In
opposition, Defendant argues that Subject Vehicle was sold to Plaintiff by
nonparty Rusnak/Pasadena, whereas Plaintiff presented their vehicle for repair
or repurchase to Penske Volvo. Defendant contends that any agreement it has
with Rusnak/Pasadena is irrelevant to this action. The Court agrees. Plaintiff
failed to show good cause for the production of this document. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 18. 
RFP Nos. 37-39: Plaintiff requests Defendant
produce documents sufficient to identify all OBDII codes, vehicle symptom
codes, and vehicle component repair codes for the same year, make and model as the
Subject Vehicle i.e., all 2018 Volvo XC90s. Plaintiff does not explain in her
memorandum of points and authorities, separate statement, or her reply brief why
further responses to these requests for production are necessary. Although
Plaintiff addresses Defendant’s objections, Plaintiff does not show how
evidence of these various codes is relevant to any disputed fact. (Sosa v
CashCall, Inc. (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 42, 47.) The motion is DENIED as to
RFP Nos. 37-39. 
RFP Nos. 40-41: Plaintiff requests Defendant
produce documents sufficient to identify all customer complaint codes and labor
operation codes from 2021 to present. These requests, like RFP Nos. 37 through
39, are unsupported by any showing of good cause in Plaintiff’s memorandum of
points and authorities, separate statement, or reply brief. They are also
overbroad because they are not limited to customer complaint codes or labor
operation codes associated with the repair of vehicles in California of the
same make, model, and year of the Subject Vehicle. The motion is DENIED as to
RFP Nos. 30-41.
RFP Nos. 45-46: Plaintiff requests Defendant
produce complaints by customers with 2018 XC90 vehicles about repairs under
warranty as well as any documents evidencing warranty repairs to 2018 XC90
vehicles. Once again, Plaintiff fails to set forth specific facts justifying
the production of these documents. The Court also notes that the requests are
overbroad because they seek information about complaints and repairs which are
not related to the alleged defects of the Subject Vehicle. The motion is DENIED
as to RFP Nos. 45-46. 
          Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. Defendant’s request for sanctions is GRANTED
and imposed against Plaintiff’s counsel of record in the reduced amount of $1,890,
consisting of 7 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $270, to be paid
within 20 days of the date of this order. 
Dated
this 8th
day of November, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.