 Case Number:  23STCV23884    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence that other defendants were sued but are not at trial and the
contents of the complaint because the complaint is not a judicial
admission.  
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to modify the caption to refer only to defendants remaining
in the case is deemed made and granted but not to affect any allocation of
fault under Proposition 51.  To the extent
the motion seeks to exclude any evidence of other defendants not at trial, the
motion is denied as too vague.  For
example, a deposition testimony of a witness of another defendant may be
admissible, or evidence may be relevant for Proposition 51 purposes.
“ ‘The admission of fact
in a pleading is a “judicial admission.” ’ 
[Citation.]  A judicial admission
in a pleading is not merely evidence of a fact; it is a conclusive concession
of the truth of the matter. 
[Citation.]  ‘Well pleaded
allegations in the complaint are binding on the plaintiff at trial.’  [Citation.] 
‘The trial court may not ignore a judicial admission in a pleading , but
must conclusively deem it true as against the pleader.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 187.)  Based on this caselaw, the complaint may
contain judicial admissions of fact.  The
court therefore cannot conclude at this time that the entire complaint and its
exhibits are inadmissible.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence of expert James Dahlgren’s religious practices and beliefs,
his prior association with BWell Clinic, and prior court orders about him as
irrelevant and unduly prejudicial.  The
expert’s religious practices and beliefs are irrelevant to this case and unduly
prejudicial.  If the expert testifies
about providing the medical treatments based on the writings of L. Ron Hubbard,
then he may be cross-examined about the basis for those medical
treatments.  Likewise, the expert’s past
association with BWell Clinic, which does not appear to have treated for
asbestos exposure, is not relevant to the expert’s opinions in this case and
will cause an undue amount trial time and jury confusion.  The article about the expert is hearsay.
            Plaintiffs
attach the following court decisions regarding the expert’s prior
opinions:  (1) a 2010 case from a federal
court applying Ohio law and Daubert about air emissions from a refinery;
(2) a 2011 Sixth Circuit case applying Daubert concerning opinions on
exposure to benzene, (3) a 2005 case from a federal court in Louisiana applying
Louisiana law and Daubert about exposure to a glycol, (4) a 2009 federal
case from Mississippi about pancreatic cancer caused by a chemical agent
applying Daubert, (5) a 2007 case from Texas about exposure to creosote
applying Texas law, (6) a 2003 federal case from Hawaii about chemical
fumigants applying Daubert, (7) a 2008 decision from Los Angeles
Superior Court about toxic mold, mildew and fungus, (8) a 2007 decision from
New Mexico state court about chemical exposure causing lupus, and (9) a 2007
hearing transcript from a New Mexico state court hearing about some kind of
chemical exposure.  Only one case applied
California law.  No case involved
asbestos.  Therefore, these cases
involved different law and different facts. 
Allowing examination about these decisions will require significant
trial time and confuse the jury, as the parties will spend substantial time
explaining the underlying facts of those cases and the expert’s analysis in
those cases to try to establish that the situations in these cases were similar
or distinct from the situation here.
            The
motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
This motion seeks to
preclude mention of exposure to products eliminated by summary judgment
orders.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify particular orders or
products.  Also, one defendant can
successfully move for summary judgment of the claims against it for a
particular product, and a different defendant can remain in the case regarding
claims against that second defendant for the same product.  Thus, the grant of summary judgment as to one
defendant does not necessarily mean that a particular product is out of the
case.  The motion is denied.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Familian Corp.
moves to exclude evidence and argument about a post-sale failure to warn.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to
exclude evidence of a post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or
post-sale warning campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an
operative negligence cause of action. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from this order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Familian
moves to exclude voir dire questions suggesting a specific damages amount.  This is not a proper motion in limine because
it does not seek to exclude evidence. 
Voir dire questions are not evidence. 
The trial court will have its own rules about voir dire.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
The moving party is to give notice.