 Case Number:  23STCV17882    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE; MOTION TO
BIFURCATE
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 1
Plaintiff moves to
exclude evidence about permissible exposure limits established by government
regulations and compliance with those regulations as irrelevant, confusing, and
requiring an undue amount of time.  An
expert may be able to show that government regulations about permissible
exposure limits are the type of information experts in the field rely
upon.  Plaintiff can cross-examine the
expert about whether the regulations are applicable to the exposures alleged in
this case.  The issues raised by
Plaintiff, such as regulations applying to the workplace, go to the weight to
be given the evidence, and Plaintiff can argue the jury should give the
exposure limits no weight.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 2
            Plaintiff
moves to exclude arguments that the Hamilton brand joint compound contained
asbestos from any source other than Union Carbide because there is no evidence
of any other source.  Defendants argue there
is evidence Hamilton obtained asbestos from other sources.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, motions to exclude unsubstantiated evidence are deemed made and
denied.  Further, whether there were
other sources is a disputed issue for the jury. 
If Union Carbide tells the jury that there was another source and then
fails to provide evidence of another source, in closing Plaintiff can tell the
jury that Union Carbide failed to give them any evidence of any other source.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 3
Plaintiff seeks to
preclude arguments that Union Carbide delivered Asbestos Toxicology Reports to
Hamilton Materials because there is no evidence of that.  Defendants contend there is such evidence.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, motions to exclude unsubstantiated evidence are deemed made and
denied.  Also, the court cannot determine
via a motion in limine that no evidence exists on a particular point.  Even if a witness testified in a deposition
that the witness does not know something, the witness can testify differently
at trial.  Here, Union Carbide delivered the
reports is a disputed issue for the jury. 
If Union Carbide tells the jury that it delivered the reports and then
fails to give the jury any such evidence, Plaintiff can tell the jury in closing
that Union Carbide failed to present the evidence.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiff’s MIL No. 4
Plaintiff moves to
exclude evidence that chrysotile asbestos does not cause mesothelioma, or that
there is a minimum exposure required, because the evidence is to the
contrary.  Plaintiff references papers
supporting that position.  Defendants reference
scientific articles supporting the contrary position.  This is a disputed issue for the experts and
jury.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No.
Defendant Union Carbide
moves to exclude evidence of its corporate structure and relationship with Dow
Chemical.  This motion is too vague.  If at trial Plaintiff asks questions about these
topics that are irrelevant, Defendant can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Union Carbide moves to
exclude any reference to incidents where people died or were injured as a
result of Union Carbide’s chemicals other than asbestos.  Incidents not involving asbestos are
irrelevant, more prejudicial than probative, and would be unduly time
consuming.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Defendant Honeywell moves
to exclude all references to foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile
asbestos.  Plaintiff did not show any
defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos or the reasons why
the foreign governments banned it. 
Allowing that evidence will consume an undue amount of trial time
exploring the bases for and legislative history of the foreign bans.  The evidence would have little probative
value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the United States and
would be confusing to the jury.  The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
Defendant Honeywell moves
to exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  This
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
Honeywell moves to
exclude an article by Laura S. Welch. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and granted
as to Welch’s amicus brief but not her article. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from that order.  Therefore, the motion is denied as to the
article without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence relating to the Friction Materials Standard Institute as
unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay. 
The motion does not identify the specific documents or even state
whether the documents appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  This motion is too vague.  The court cannot predict whether Plaintiff
will be able to authenticate and establish the admissibility of unidentified
documents at trial.  Defendant should
object if and when Plaintiff seeks to use specific FMSI documents at
trial.  For example, an expert might rely
on a FMSI document, and such a document might be admissible if the expert
establishes that it is the type of document relied upon as accurate by experts
in the field.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
Honeywell moves to
exclude a letter and a memo from E.A. Martin because they cannot be
authenticated, are hearsay, are not relevant, and are more prejudicial than
probative.  Defendant states the
documents are unsigned and there is no evidence about who wrote or received
them.  The court cannot determine at this
point that no witness will be able to authenticate the documents.  If Plaintiff seeks to introduce
unauthenticated documents at trial, Defendant should object then.
The documents could be
relevant to notice or knowledge of the dangers of asbestos.  If Plaintiff seeks to use the documents to
show notice, the documents may not be hearsay if they are not offered for the
truth of the matter asserted (assuming they can be authenticated). 
The last paragraph of the
letter is more prejudicial than probative. 
If Plaintiff authenticates the letter and establish its relevance and
non-hearsay use at trial, the last paragraph of the letter is to be redacted
before the letter is admitted.  Plaintiff
did not establish the author of the letter was a managing agent or authorized
to speak for the company.  
The motion is granted in
part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and
unduly prejudicial because Plaintiff was never employed by Honeywell.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at Defendant’s facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Defendant Honeywell seeks
to preclude a 1986 EPA document entitled “Guidance for Preventing Asbestos
Disease Among Auto Mechanics” as irrelevant, hearsay, unscientific, and unduly
prejudicial.  If Defendant contends it
did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1986, the document could be
relevant to Defendant’s notice of the dangers of asbestos, a non-hearsay
use.  Also, the contents of the document
may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes it is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  That the document was based on
unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the
weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the
type of information relied upon by experts. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
Honeywell seeks to
exclude testimony and videos about William Longo and Richard Hatfield’s work
simulations because the simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s
exposure.  Defendant argues the
simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods
such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury
because the conditions are so different. 
Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the
admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel
v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)  At trial, Defendants can cross-examine the
experts about the similarities and differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a
small, sealed chamber and argue the jury should give the videos no weight
because of the different conditions.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
Honeywell seeks to
exclude evidence of the publication “Doubt is Their Product.”  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted unless and until proper foundation is established
with the trial court.  Plaintiff did not
show good cause to depart from this order. 
Therefore, the motion is granted unless and until proper foundation is
established with the trial court.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence of workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or
asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims
may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose. 
However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,
time-consuming, and confusing to the jury. 
It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part subject to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Honeywell moves to
exclude evidence of Bendix’s conduct and knowledge after the last exposure as
not relevant.  This motion is too vague,
and such conduct could be relevant.  For
example, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to exclude evidence of a
post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or post-sale warning
campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an operative negligence
cause of action.  Defendant did not show
good cause to depart from this order.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 14
Honeywell seeks to
exclude evidence of statements of and proceedings of OSHA, the EPA, and any
other governmental agency, as well as violations of regulations.  This is too vague.  It would exclude all evidence of OSHA
regulations, which could be relevant to notice. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 15
Honeywell moves to
exclude arguments that any exposure is a “substantial factor.”  Defendant does not identify the specific
expert opinion to be excluded. 
Therefore, the motion is too vague. 
Also, under the July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion
about the term “substantial factor” are deemed made and denied without
prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendant did not show good cause to depart from this order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 16-20
            No motions
were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 21
            Defendant
Pneumo Abex moves to exclude references to the Pneumo Abex Asbestos Claims
Settlement Trust as not relevant and prejudicial because that entity is not a party
in this case.  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.  Also, pursuant to the July
8, 2022 CMO, a motion to exclude evidence of the bankruptcy of an alleged
tortfeasor not present at trial is deemed mad and granted.  Plaintiff did not show good cause to depart
from this order.  Therefore the motion is
granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 22
Defendant Meritor, Inc.
moves to exclude the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence referring to the
video as hearsay, unscientific, and prejudicial.  The video may be admissible at trial via an
expert if the expert establishes that it is general background information of
the type relied upon by experts in the field. 
The claim that the video is unscientific can be the subject of
cross-examination and goes to the weight to be given the video.  Defendant contends the EPA updated its
guidance in 2007 so the video is outdated. 
That too can be the subject of cross-examination.
Defendant argues the
video’s references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant
because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  If Plaintiff establishes that the video is
admissible, the portion of the video about the magazine article and wives and
children are to be redacted.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 23
Defendant Amcord, Inc. moves
to exclude a March 12, 1974 memorandum about blue asbestos in gun plastic as
irrelevant, prejudicial, and misleading. 
Defendant contends the reference to “blue asbestos” in the memo is to a
brand name, not to a specific type of asbestos. 
If the memo is otherwise admissible (e.g., it is authenticated), then
Defendant can have a witness explain that “blue asbestos” is a brand name and
can cross-examine any witness who contends that “blue asbestos” refers to
something other than a brand name.  The
jury will be able to understand the difference between a brand name and a
specific type of asbestos, and the jury can decide who is correct.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 24
Amcord moves to exclude
any evidence of lobbying activities.  The
motion is too vague and does not identify specific evidence to be
excluded.  Therefore, the motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 25
Amcord moves to exclude
evidence of working conditions at Amcord’s facility as irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial because Plaintiff was never employed at the facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 25
            Defendant
Morse Tec moves to exclude a reference to Plaintiff’s personal history not
related to asbestos, such as that she was assaulted, had a child, dropped out
of high school and is estranged from her child as irrelevant and prejudicial.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
            The
motion is granted as to the assault, having a child as a result, and dropping
out of high school, which are not relevant and would consume an undue amount of
time.  The fact that Plaintiff has a
child may be relevant.  Otherwise the
reference to “personal history” is too vague. 
The motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 26
            See
No. 4 above.
Defendants’ MIL No. 27
Defendant Morse Tec moves
to exclude evidence of a proposed 1971 Illinois ban that never went into effect
as hearsay and irrelevant.  The evidence
may go to notice or knowledge.  Defendant
can then cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed ban was
never effective.  The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate
Defendants move to bifurcate
punitive damages.  The motion is granted.
The moving party is to give notice.