 Case Number:  22STCV17343    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Andrew Edward Ezor, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV17343




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Ellie Page, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: May 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant Ellie Page, Trustee of the
Jill Ilana Wizel Special Needs Trust
Responding Party: Plaintiff Arthur Edward Ezor 
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff Arthur
Edward Ezor filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants,
asserting causes of action for (1) Declaratory Relief to Set Aside Sheriff’s
Sale; (2) Recission Voiding or Cancelling Sheriff’s Sale; (3) Wrongful
Foreclosure; (4) Unjust Enrichment; (5) Violation of California Business and
Professions Code § 17200; (6) Quiet Title; (7) Conspiracy to Commit Fraudulent
Conveyance; (8) Intentional Interference with Economic Relations; and (9)
Breach of Oral Contract. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Page, his
judgment creditor on a past judgment, conspired to sell his real property at
sheriff’s sale to Masoud Koshki, Shlomo Koshki, and P & J La Brea LLC for
under fair market value. Plaintiff also alleges Defendants wrongfully sought a
sheriff’s sale while escrow with another buyer was pending.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. First through Fourth and Seventh through Ninth Causes
of Action
Defendant seeks summary judgment on the first
through fourth and seventh through ninth causes of action on the ground that
Plaintiff has removed moving Defendant from those causes of action in the
second amended complaint. Plaintiff does not address this in opposition.
B. Fifth Cause of Action for UCL Violations
The UCL prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark
v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)  Defendant asserts that the fifth cause of
action fails on the ground that Defendant did not and does not engage in
“business practices.” Defendant presents evidence showing Defendant is not in
the business of selling or financing real estate, but rather is a professional
trustee. Defendant also represents that there is no “pattern and practice” of
unfair acts as the sheriff’s sale at issue in this action is the only sheriff’s
sale Defendant has participated in. 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts the
sheriff’s sale was improper. This is insufficient to create a triable issue of
fact as to the claim for UCL violations.
C. Sixth Cause of Action for Quiet Title
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cannot
establish a claim for quiet title against Defendant because Defendant does not
claim an interest in the title of the property or have possession of the
property. Plaintiff does not address this issue in opposition.
Defendant has met their burden to establish that
no triable issues of fact exist. Plaintiff has failed to present triable issues
of fact. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 