..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary:

```
Case Number: 19STCV31305
Plaintiff's Name: Hua
Defendant's Name: Western Asset Management
People-Names: Hua, Jason Dizon, Shirin Forootan, Jonathan Wilson, Mark Falkenhagen, Yuanli Fang
Company-Names: Western Asset Management
Places: West Hills Medical Center
Dates:
  - October 6, 2023 (Hearing Date)
  - July 24, 2019 (Date of e-mail)
Events: Motions in limine
Money: None
Intentions: To determine the admissibility of certain evidence
Facts: Plaintiff's and defendant's actions, events, and claims
Disputes: Relevant evidence, relevance, prejudice, and admissibility
Acts: Plaintiff's and defendant's actions, including obtaining records, terminating employees, and discussing wages
Agreements: None
Laws:
  - California Code of Civil Procedure
  - Kelly v. New West Fed. Sav. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670
  - LASC Local Rule 3.57 (a)(1)
  - Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 823
Case Citations: Kelly v. New West Fed. Sav. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670, Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 823
Statutes: None
Roles:
  - Judge: The judge who wrote the tentative ruling
  - Plaintiff: Hua, the plaintiff in the case
  - Defendant: Western Asset Management, the defendant in the case
Significant Statements:
  - The Court will allow evidence of the Plaintiff's obtaining the records, but not of the Court's order compelling their return.
  - The Court finds the evidence of Plaintiff's financial condition irrelevant to the issues presented.
  - The Court denies the motion to exclude evidence of dismissed racial and sexual discrimination claims, finding them relevant to Plaintiff's credibility.
```

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on various motions in limine filed by both the plaintiff and the defendant. The plaintiff's motions seek to exclude certain evidence, including evidence of the court's prior ruling on a motion for return of defendant's business records, evidence of plaintiff's financial condition, and evidence of plaintiff's excessive phone usage in 2007 and performance issues prior to 2016. The judge has granted some of these motions, including the motions to exclude evidence of plaintiff's financial condition, excessive phone usage, and performance issues, finding the evidence irrelevant or unduly prejudicial.

The defendant's motions also seek to exclude certain evidence, including evidence of isolated remarks by non-decision makers, evidence of plaintiff's being harassed, and evidence of time-barred allegations. The judge has granted some of these motions, including the motion to exclude references to summarily adjudicated claims, finding the evidence irrelevant. The judge has denied other motions, including the motion to exclude evidence of dismissed racial and sexual discrimination claims, finding the evidence relevant to plaintiff's credibility.

The judge has also made several tentative rulings on motions related to the admissibility of evidence, including evidence of defendant's not retaliating against others who discussed their wages, evidence of defendant's terminating other employees for violating its confidentiality policy, and evidence of plaintiff's prior work experience and education. The judge has reserved ruling on several motions pending further briefing and argument.

Overall, the judge's tentative ruling sets out the admissibility of various pieces of evidence and provides guidance on the relevance and prejudice of certain evidence in this employment discrimination case.
