 Case Number:  19STCV36339    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KOOK BONG
  LEE, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
NATHANAEL
  YUN, et al.


 Case No.: 
  19STCV36339
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023



 
Defendants Hun
Sung Park’s and LA Open Door Presbyterian Church’s unopposed demurrer to
the second amended complaint of Plaintiffs Kook Bong Lee, Jason Lee, Ji Tammy
Hwang, Joyce Kim, Ki Ok Cho, Geon Oh Seo, Yong Ki Kim, Chris Hwang aka Seung
Wook Hwang, Genchun Park, and Tony Park is sustained without leave to
amend as to Reverend Park and Open Door.
Moving
and Joining Defendants’ demurrer to Pastor Seo, Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and
Tony on the basis of legal capacity to sue is sustained as to the SAC without
leave to amend.
 
Defendants
Hun Sung Park’s and LA Open Door Presbyterian Church’s motion to strike is
denied as moot.
 
          Defendants Hun Sung Park (“Reverend Park”) and LA Open Door
Presbyterian Church (“LA Open Door”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur unopposed
to Plaintiffs Kook Bong Lee’s (“Kook Bong”), Jason Lee’s (“Jason”), Ji Tammy
Hwang’s (“Ji Tammy”), Joyce Kim’s (“Joyce”), Ki Ok Cho’s (“Cho”), Geon Oh Seo’s
(“Pastor Seo”), Yong Ki Kim’s (“Yong Ki”), Chris Hwang aka Seung Wook Hwang’s
(“Chris”), Genchun Park’s (“Genchun”), and Tony Park’s (“Tony”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
second amended complaint (“SAC”). 
(Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2.)  Moving
Defendants also move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s SAC.  (Notice of MTS, pg. 2.)  Defendants Nathanael Yun (“Nathanael”),
Samuel S. Kim (“Samuel”), Suk Ho Jin (“Suk Ho”), Korean Western Presbyterian
Church of Los Angeles (“KWPC LA”), and Korean Western Presbyterian Church
Foundation (“KWPC Foundation”) (collectively, “Joining Defendants”) join Moving
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike.
 
          Request for Judicial Notice
          Moving Defendants’ 5/18/23 request for judicial notice of the
Judgment entered in Korean Western Presbyterian Church of Los Angeles v.
Geon Oh Seo et al., LASC Case No. BC698722, filed on July 24, 2019, is
granted.  (D-RJN, Exh. 1.)
 
Background
On October 10, 2019,
Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint in the instant action.  On October 11, 2019, Plaintiffs filed their
first amended complaint.  On February 10,
2020, Plaintiffs filed the operative SAC against Moving Defendants, Joining
Defendants, and Non-moving Defendants Bong K. Kim (“Bong K.”) and Joo Mo Ko
(“Joo Mo”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action: (1) breach
of fiduciary duty; (2) fraud; (3) conspiracy; (4) accounting; (5) unfair
business practices in violation of Business & Professions Code §§17200 et
seq.; (6) removal of directors; and (7) declaratory and injunctive relief.  Plaintiffs’ causes of action arises from an
alleged fraudulent scheme designed by Defendants to take Defendant KWPC LA from
its senior pastor, Plaintiff Pastor Seo, and its members, to allow the use of
church premises for another congregation, Defendant LA Open Door, to enable
access by Defendants to Defendant KWPC LA’s assets, particularly its real
property holdings valued in excess of $10 million.  (SAC ¶21.)
On May 18, 2023, Moving Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and accompanying motion to strike.  On July 31, 2023, Joining Defendants filed
their joinders to Moving Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike. Moving
Defendants and Joining Defendants filed notices of non-opposition on September
29, 2023.  As of the date of this
hearing, Plaintiffs have not filed any oppositions.
 
          Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege In or about
March 2018, Defendants, including but not limited to, Defendants Nathanael,
Bong K., Reverend Park, Joo Mo, Suk Ho, and Samuel enacted a coordinated plan
to remove the KWPC LA leadership, particularly Plaintiff Pastor Seo, and Defendant
KWPC LA’s elders/deacons, Plaintiffs Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony.  (SAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants, including but not limited to, Defendants Nathanael,
Bong K., Reverend Park, Joo Mo, Suk Ho, and Samuel, claiming to be acting under
the direction and authority of the World Korean Presbyterian Church (“WKPC”),
asserted authority to remove the Pastor Seo and others.  Plaintiffs allege these Defendants created
false allegations and accusations against the KWPC LA leadership, in order to
create an artificial dispute which allowed the WKPC, as the governing body of
the Presbytery and KWPC LA, to enter and take temporary control of the church
to resolve church disputes.  (SAC ¶23)  
Plaintiffs allege on March
18, 2018, only four days after having taken control of the KWPC LA, Defendants,
including but not limited to, Nathanael, Bong K., Reverend Park, Joo Mo, Suk Ho,
and Samuel, not only removed but excommunicated the entire KWPC LA leadership,
including Pastor and KWPC LA elders/deacons Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony.  (SAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants did not take these actions to cleanse the
church or to resolve disputes within the church, but rather Defendants did this
to remove leadership opposition to their future plans to gain control of the
church assets.  (SAC ¶25.)  
Plaintiffs allege the issues
regarding the propriety of Defendants’ actions and the procedural manner in
which Defendants undertook to remove and excommunicate KWPC LA leadership,
particularly Pastor Seo, and KWPC LA elders/deacons Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun,
and Tony, has been considered in LASC Case No. BC698722, which was resolved by
grant of summary judgment on or about June 13, 2019, with judgment entered July
24, 2019.  (SAC ¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege they do not seek, by this
lawsuit, to retry the manner or procedure of the actions taken in the removal
or excommunications issued March 18, 2018. 
(SAC ¶26.)  
Plaintiffs allege Long after
the March 18, 2018, excommunications, and only at the very end of Case No.
BC698722, when it was too late to act, have Plaintiffs learned the details of
Defendants’ fraudulent scheme and the true purpose underlying Defendants’
earlier actions.  (SAC ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege on information and belief
that that the scheme began with Reverend Park, who is the Senior Pastor of LA
Open Door.  (SAC ¶28.)   Plaintiffs allege on or about September 28,
2018, following remand of a judgment originally issued in May 2015, LA Open
Door became finally liable for a judgment in excess of $3 million dollars with
interest.  (SAC ¶28, Exh. A.)  
Plaintiffs allege in order to
avoid payment or enforcement of this judgment, Reverend Park needed to move his
congregation to new premises to continue operation.  (SAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiffs allege Reverend Park is an influential person at the WKPC,
and Plaintiffs believe, and therefore allege, that Reverend Park worked with
the WKPC and other Defendants to take control of the KWPC LA property.  (SAC ¶28.) 

Plaintiffs allege in order to
carry out his plan, Reverend Park enlisted the aid of KWPC LA former senior
pastor, aged 92, Defendant Samuel, and original board members/elders Defendants
Nathanael and Bong K., to create false charges against Pastor Seo and the
others.  (SAC ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege Reverend Park succeeded in
soliciting the aid of these Defendants, by offering to pay Samuel $2 million
dollars once he could get control of the church property and refinance the
church property.  (SAC ¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants Nathanael and
Bong K. were willing accomplices because each was an original board member who
had grown dissatisfied with Pastor Seo’s strong influence in KWPC LA, and they
wanted to keep control of the KWPC LA church.  (SAC ¶30.) 
Plaintiffs allege Nathanael is also the brother-in-law of former senior
pastor Samuel.  (SAC ¶30.)  
Plaintiffs allege on March 4,
2018, Defendant Nathanael partnered with Bong K. to create and carry out an
improperly noticed secret session meeting in which Nathanael and Bong K. acted
to remove Pastor Seo, wherein Nathanael and Bong K. alleged, falsely and
without any evidence or proof, that Pastor Seo had embezzled KWPC LA assets,
had falsified KWPC LA documents filed with the Secretary of State, and had
abused his corporate powers as to KWPC LA. 
(SAC ¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege the March
4, 2018, scheme was conducted by Defendants surreptitiously and in conspiracy
with one another, in order to remove Pastor Seo and the other Plaintiffs, so
that Defendants together could take over the directorship of the Church and
continue and finalize their plans to take complete control of the Church real
and monetary assets without interference of Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶30.) 

Plaintiffs allege thereafter,
on March 13, 2018, Defendants held an additional irregular, improperly noticed,
and perhaps fictitious meeting in which the purported result was to suspend,
and ultimately, excommunicate Plaintiffs, to have the Presbytery send in a
“temporary” pastor, which further opened the door for other defendants to enter
the KWPC LA property and continue their scheme. 
(SAC ¶30.)  
Plaintiffs allege following
their successful ouster of Pastor Seo, and KWPC LA elders/deacons Yong Ki, Chris,
Genchun, and Tony, Defendants worked to finalize their fraudulent scheme.  (SAC ¶31.) 
Plaintiffs allege on or about October 25, 2018, (days after the judgment
against Open Door Church) Defendants created a new nonprofit religious
corporation, KWPC Foundation.  (SAC ¶32,
Exh. B.) Plaintiffs allege KWPC Foundation’s articles of incorporation show the
business address as the same as the KWPC LA property.  (SAC ¶33.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that one of the first actions of KWPC Foundation was to
lease the KWPC LA church facility to Reverend Park and Open Door Church.  (SAC ¶44, Exh. C.)  Plaintiffs allege this has caused severe
detriment to KWPC LA and its members, as they have been ousted from their own
facility, and therefore cannot effectively conduct worship services or other
church activities at their own location. 
(SAC ¶45.)  Plaintiffs allege Reverend
Park and Open Door Church are using the church facility for illegal and immoral
purposes, by hiding behind KWPC LA to hide Open Door Church funds and to avoid
Open Door Church creditors.  (SAC ¶46.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that recently Open Door Church judgment creditors
attempted to enter the church property and seize assets. (SAC ¶47.)  Plaintiffs allege Reverend Park and other
Defendants claimed the assets, which were in fact Open Door Church assets, were
assets of KWPC LA and therefore could not be seized.  (SAC ¶47.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that Defendants have
comingled Open Door Church assets with KWPC LA assets and have used KWPC LA
assets for the sole benefit of Open Door Church and to pay Open Door Church’s
liabilities and expenses, to the detriment of KWPC LA and its members.  (SAC ¶50.) 
Plaintiffs allege an accounting is necessary to provide clarity and
ensure comingling does not occur.  (SAC
¶50.)
 
A.  
Demurrer
Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects
that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside
the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [citing text].)  A demurrer can be utilized where the
complaint itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar
recovery (e.g., dates pleaded in complaint show statute of limitations has
run).  (Guardian North
Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963,
971-972; Estate of Moss (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 521, 535
[citing text]; Alexander v. Exxon Mobil
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1236, 1250 [finding rule inapplicable based on fact
issues re accrual].)
 
Summary of Demurrer
In support of their demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ SAC, Moving and Joining Defendants argue all causes of action
against Reverend Park and LA Open Door are not within this Court’s
jurisdiction.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; C.C.P.
§430.10(a).).  Moving and Joining
Defendants argue all causes of action were filed by individuals who do not have
the legal capacity to sue.  (Demurrer,
pg. 3; C.C.P. §430.10(b).)  Moving and
Joining Defendants demur to each cause of action on the basis that they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Reverend Park
and LA Open Door, and the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, and 6th causes of action are
uncertain.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; §§430.10(e),
(f).)  
 
Lack of Jurisdiction
It is well settled that this
court is expressly prohibited from making any inquiries as to the validity of Plaintiffs’
excommunication, whether procedurally or substantively.  (See Serbian Orthodox Diocese v. Milivojevich
(1976) 426 U.S. 696, 720 [holding that under the First Amendment, questions of
religious polity are left “exclusively to the highest ecclesiastical tribunals
of [a] hierarchical church”]; Concord Christian Center v. Open Bible
Standard Churches (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1413 [holding trial court correctly
recognized that the propriety of revoking a minister’s credentials was an
ecclesiastical matter that the court must abstain from deciding].)
Here, Plaintiffs’ 1st, 2nd,
3rd, and 7th causes of action directly implicate the excommunications of the
Plaintiffs in the underlying Korean Western Presbyterian Church of Los
Angeles v. Geon Oh Seo, et. al., LASC Case No. BC698722.  (See D-RJN, Exh. 1.)  Plaintiffs consistently address the
excommunications in their general allegations (SAC ¶¶3-7, 22-26), as a fact to
support their 1st cause of action (SAC ¶53), 2nd cause of action (SAC ¶¶57, 59),
and 3rd Cause of Action (SAC ¶66).  Further,
Plaintiffs request in their 7th cause of action relief in the form of enjoining
the Defendants from exercising authority within KWPC LA (SAC ¶97) and that
Plaintiffs be given the right to possess, control and manage KWPC LA assets
(SAC ¶96).  Taking such allegations as
true would require relitigating Korean Western Presbyterian Church of Los
Angeles v. Geon Oh Seo, et. al., Case No. BC698722.
Accordingly, Moving and
Joining Defendants’ demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 7th causes of action are
sustained without leave to amend for lack of jurisdiction.
 
Legal Capacity to Sue
The Judgment in Korean
Western Presbyterian Church of Los Angeles v. Geon Oh Seo, et. al., Case
No. BC698722, enjoined Pastor Seo, Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony, from (1)
interfering with KWPC LA’s possession, control, and management of KWPC LA
property, (2) entering without permission into KWPC LA property, and (3)
disrupting and interfering with the church meetings, events and activities on KWPC
LA property.  (D-RJN, Exh. 1.)
Therefore, Pastor Seo, Yong
Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony are precluded from filing the instant action.  Accordingly, Moving and Joining Defendants’
demurrer to Pastor Seo, Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony on the basis of legal
capacity to sue is sustained as to the SAC without leave to amend.
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Causes of Action against Open
Door LA
Plaintiffs’ seven causes of
action fail to state any cause of action against LA Open Door, and allege each
cause of action against Nathanael, Bong K., Reverend Park, Joo Mo, Suk Ho, and
Samuel.
Accordingly, Moving and
Joining Defendants’ demurrer for failure to state a cause of action against
Open Door LA is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Accounting (4th COA)
A cause of action for
accounting must allege the following elements: (1) existence of a relationship
requiring accounting, such as fiduciary; and (2) some unliquidated and
unascertained balance is owed.
 (See Teselle v. McLoughlin
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)  No
fiduciary relationship is required.  (Id.)
 But “[a]n action for accounting is not
available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a
sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Id.)
Plaintiffs allege a fiduciary
relationship exists between Plaintiffs as representatives of the KWPC LA, and
Defendants Nathanael, Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo.  (SAC ¶71.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants have taken control of the accounts, funds,
and real and personal property of the KWPC LA, including but not limited to,
transferring said real and personal property to a new corporation, Defendant
KWPC Foundation, that is not controlled or answerable to the members of the
KWPC LA or even higher presbytery organizations.  (SAC ¶72.) 
Plaintiffs allege that what Defendants have done with the assets of the
KWPC LA cannot be determined without the accounting of the financial records of
both the KWPC LA and the KWPC Foundation. 
(SAC ¶73.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege
that Reverend Park owes Plaintiffs a fiduciary duty as CEO of Open Door because
Plaintiffs do not allege either Reverend Park or Open Door are alter egos of
KWPC LA or KWPC Foundation.  Plaintiffs
allege on information and belief that Defendants commingled Open Door funds
with KWPC LA assets.  (SAC ¶50.)  However, Plaintiffs allege that the Statement
of Information filed with the California Secretary of State for KWPC Foundation
shows its three officers are Nathanael, Bong K., and Samuel; Plaintiffs do not
allege Reverend Park is an officer.  (See
SAC ¶38.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th cause of action for accounting is sustained without
leave to amend as to Reverend Park.
 
Violation of Business &
Professions Code §§17200 et seq. (5th COA)
A cause of action for unfair
business practice in violation of Business & Professions Code §§17200 et
seq. includes the following elements: (1) a business practice; (2) that is
unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent; and (3) authorized remedy.  (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants
Nathanael, Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo never sought nor
received any authorization to transfer KWPC LA property to another corporation
(KWPC Foundation), let alone one that is not controlled by the KWPC LA.  (SAC ¶76.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants Nathanael, Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park,
Suk Ho, and Joo Mo never notified the California Attorney General in advance of
this disposition of substantially all of the KWPC LA corporate assets to KWPC Foundation,
as required under Corporations Code §9633. 
(SAC ¶77.)  
Plaintiffs allege Defendants Nathanael,
Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo never sought nor received
any authorization to transfer the use of the KWPC LA church facilities through
the guise of a rental agreement, or any agreement, to another church (Open
Door), let alone one that is not controlled by the KWPC LA.  (SAC ¶78.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants were grossly
negligent in entering into this agreement with Open Door on behalf of KWPC LA.  (SAC ¶78.) 
Plaintiffs allege these acts, along with the purposeful hiding and/or
comingling of KWPC LA assets with those of Open Door solely for the illegal and
immoral purpose of hiding Open Door assets from judgment creditors, constitutes
unfair business practices under the UCL. 
(SAC ¶79.)  Plaintiffs allege as a
result of the aforesaid violations of the UCL, Defendants, jointly and
severally, are obligated to provide restitution to Plaintiffs in an amount
subject to proof at trial, in an amount estimated to exceed $1 million dollars.
 (SAC ¶81.)  Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to an
injunction enjoining and restraining Defendants, jointly and severally, from
the continued violations of the UCL, pursuant to Business & Professions
Code §17203.  (SAC ¶82.) 
Plaintiffs fail to allege the
Reverend Park violated the UCL in his capacity as CEO of Open Door.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 5th cause of action for violation of UCL is sustained
without leave to amend as to Reverend Park.
 
Removal
of Directors (6th COA)
Corporations
Code §9241 requires that “A director shall perform the duties of a director,
including duties as a member of any committee of the board upon which the
director may serve, in good faith, in a manner such director believes to be in
the best interests of the corporation and with such care, including reasonable
inquiry, as is appropriate under the circumstances.”
Corporations
Code §9223 provides,
(a)  
The
superior court of the proper county may, at the suit of a director, or twice
the authorized number [i.e., 10%] of members, remove from office any director
in case of fraudulent acts and may bar from reelection any director so removed
for a period prescribed by the court. The corporation shall be made a party to
such action.
 
(b)  
The
Attorney General may bring an action under subdivision (a), may intervene in
such an action brought by any other party and shall be given notice of any such
action brought by any other party.
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants Nathanael, Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo
failed to perform their duties in good faith and in the best interests of the
KWPCLA church.  (SAC ¶87.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants Nathanael, Bong
K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo have in fact done the opposite,
mishandling KWPC LA property in a fraudulent manner and in their own interests,
without regard to and in opposition to the interests of the church.  (SAC ¶87.) 
Plaintiffs allege they have and represent the authorized number of
members under Corporations Code § 9223, to bring this present action.  (SAC ¶89.) 
Plaintiffs allege they seek this Court’s order removing Defendants Nathanael,
Bong K., Samuel, Reverend Park, Suk Ho, and Joo Mo from office and to bar their
reelection, based on their fraudulent acts described in detail herein.  (SAC ¶90.) 
Plaintiffs request that this Court issue an order requiring KWPC LA to
hold new elections, supervised by a court-appointed reference, to elect a new
board of directors and Senior Pastor, for the KWPC LA.  (SAC ¶92.)
Plaintiffs
fail to allege the Reverend Park is a director of KWPC LA or KWPC Foundation in
his capacity as CEO of Open Door.

Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action for removal of directors is
sustained without leave to amend as to Reverend Park.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty
will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must
be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
Where a demurrer is made upon
this ground, it must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading
is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears (by reference to page and line
numbers of the complaint).  (See
Fenton v. Groveland Community Services District (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797,
809, disapproved on other grounds by Katzberg v. Regents of
University of California (2002) 29 Cal.4th 300, 328 n.30].)  Here, Defendants fail to reference pages and
line numbers of the FAC that rending the pleading so confusing that the
Defendants cannot tell what they are supposed to respond to.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Moving and Joining Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC is sustained without leave to amend as to
Reverend Park and Open Door.
Moving and Joining
Defendants’ demurrer to Pastor Seo, Yong Ki, Chris, Genchun, and Tony on the
basis of legal capacity to sue is sustained as to the SAC without leave
to amend.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s
ruling on the demurrer, Moving and Joining Defendants’ motion to strike is
denied as moot.
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  