 Case Number:  23STCP03306    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ALEX TAM, 
  
  
        
  vs.
 
PNC BANK.


 Case
  No.:  23STCP03306
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023



 
Petitioner Alex Tam’s unopposed petition for relief
from financial obligation during military service is granted.

          Petitioner Alex Tam (“Tam”) petitions
this Court for relief with respect to a financial obligation or liability to
Respondent PNC Bank (“PNC”) that Petitioner incurred before the effective date
of the orders for Petitioner’s most current active duty military service.  (Petition ¶4(b).)  Petitioner is currently in full-time active
duty service in the federal armed services. 
(Decl. of Tam ¶¶1, 3; Petition ¶3; Mil. & Vet. Code §400(b).)  Petitioner requests relief in the form of a
deferment of the payment of principal and interest on an auto loan for the
purchase of a vehicle.  (Petition
¶8(b)(3).)  Petitioner requests a
deferment period from December 1, 2023, through September 30, 2024, with
payments to resume on October 1, 2024. 
(Petition ¶8(b)(3); Mil. & Vet. Code §409.3; 50 U.S.C. §4021.)
          Petitioner filed the instant petition
on September 11, 2023.  On September 26,
2023, Petitioner and Respondent filed a joint stipulation for entry of relief
from financial obligation during military service.  Parties stipulate and agree that the instant
petition should be granted.
          Military and Veteran Code §409.3
provides, in part, 
When any court has
granted a deferment as provided in this section, no fine or penalty shall
accrue during the period the terms and conditions of the deferment are complied
with by reason of failure to comply with the terms or conditions of the
obligation, liability, tax, or assessment in respect of which the deferment was
granted, including penalties on the nonpayment of principal or interest during
this period. Interest shall not be charged or accumulated during the period of
deferment unless otherwise ordered by the court. Foreclosure or repossession of
property on which payment has been deferred shall not take place during the
period specified in this section.
 
(Mil. & Vet.
Code §409.3(e)(1).)
          Petitioner’s unopposed petition is
granted.  The period of deferment will
begin December 1, 2023, and end on September 30, 2024.  (Stipulation ¶¶8-9.)  If Petitioner is released from active
military service before the expected the release date, Petitioner must
immediately notify Respondent. 
(Stipulation ¶10.)  At the end of
the deferral period, regular monthly loan payments shall resume in the same
amount prior to the deferral. 
(Stipulation ¶11.)  
The
unpaid balance of the loan at issue will remain unchanged during the deferral
period, and no amount will be added to the principal balance during, or because
of the deferral.  (Stipulation ¶12.)  No interest will be charged, accrued, or
accumulated on principal or on interest during, or because of, the
deferral.  (Stipulation ¶13.)  This deferment shall apply to the payment of
principal and interest only and shall not relieve Petitioner of the obligation
to maintain the vehicle and to maintain insurance and registration for the
vehicle.  (Stipulation ¶14.)  
The
maturity date of the loan at issue shall be extended for the same number of
days as the deferral period to permit the additional payments necessary to pay
off the extended obligation on the terms otherwise set forth in the loan
documents.  (Stipulation ¶15.)  During the period of deferral, Respondent may
not exercise any remedies otherwise available for Petitioner’s failure to make
monthly payments of principal and interest according to the terms of the
financial obligation. Respondent may not impose fines, penalties, or late
charges and may not institute or continue proceedings to repossess, attach, or
foreclose on the property securing the obligation.  (Stipulation ¶16.)
 
Conclusion
Petitioner’s
unopposed petition for relief from financial obligation during military
service is granted.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  