 Case Number:  20STCV43052    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Change of Venue
Moving Party:                   Mortensen (Defendant)               
Responding Party:          N/A
Tentative Ruling:             Grant
BACKGROUND
The case arises from a complaint filed by Robert Kari on
November 11, 2020, alleging battery, assault, negligence, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress against Dennis Mortensen (“Defendant.”)
(Complaint p. 3.) 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
Defendant moves to transfer venue from the Alhambra court to
either Chatsworth or Van Nuys.  The trial
in this matter has been continued twice due to the failing health of Defendant,
who is permanently on oxygen and can only stand for brief periods and is
otherwise either bedridden or in a wheelchair. Mortensen expresses in his
declaration: “It is my desire, despite my current health condition, to
personally appear at trial and be present, to confront witnesses against me and
to assist my attorney, if necessary. I do not want to appear remotely because I
feel that will limit my ability to properly defend myself for obvious reasons.”
(Defendant Declaration p. 6.)
ANALYSIS
California Code of Civil Procedure section 128 provides the
Court with tremendous discretion. 20 California Code of Civil Procedure section
397 provides in part, that the court "may, on motion, change the place of
trial... when the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change." (Code Civ. Proc. § 397(c).)
The Court finds that the interests of justice support the
transfer of this case to Chatsworth or, alternatively Van Nuys, which is not
only more convenient to Defendant—who suffers disproportionate hardship from a
further venue due to his health—but is also located in the same area the
incident alleged in the complaint took place.
RULING
The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to change venue.  The Clerk of the Court is to transfer the
matter to Department 1 for reassignment to the Chatsworth or Van Nuys
Courthouse.  All future dates are
advanced and vacated.
 