 Case Number:  22STCV12232    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for
Summary Judgement 
Moving
Party:   Mr. Furley’s Bar, LLC.; Furleys,
LLC; Richard Norman Foster (Defendants)   
Responding
Party:         Vivi Devereaux (Plaintiff)
Tentative
Ruling:           Grant
BACKGROUND
            Vivi Devereaux (“Plaintiff”) filed
this complaint against Mr. Furleys Bar, LLC, Furleys, LLC, and Richard Norman
Foster (collectively “Defendants”) for injuries caused by an attack on a Mr.
Furley’s bar (“Bar”) location in Sherman Oaks. 
Plaintiff asserts a negligence claim against Defendants due to their
alleged failure to protect him from the attack by third parties.
            Plaintiff alleges that he patronized
the Bar on the night of February 4, 2021, and asserts he was drugged and
attacked by two or three other patrons, causing him to lose consciousness until
the next morning. (See Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 2-7.) 
MOVING
PARTY POSITION
            Defendants argue that they owed no
duty to protect Plaintiff against a third-party assault because they did not
own or control the location where Plaintiff was attacked and thus have no
“special relationship” to Plaintiff. 
Defendants also assert that no duty to protect Plaintiff existed due to
a lack of prior similar criminal conduct or evidence the assault was reasonably
foreseeable. 
            Defendants assert that Plaintiff has
failed to provide evidence of causation, as Plaintiff in his deposition could
not identify his attackers as patrons to the Bar, nor could Plaintiff recall
any events between leaving the Bar and the assault or whether the assault
occurred while the Sherman Oaks location was open.  In turn, Defendants argue, Plaintiff solely
relies on the speculative possibility he could have been attacked by Bar
patrons in the parking lot—which does not create a triable issue.
            Finally, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s admission responses and interrogatory answers reflect the Plaintiff
completely lacks evidence to prove his case. 
OPPOSITION
            Plaintiff opposes the motion for
summary judgment on two grounds.  First,
Plaintiff argues that there is a triable issue with respect to Defendants’
failure to adequately maintain, supervise, and operate their employees, agents,
and place of business and common areas. 
Plaintiff contends that there are triable issues pursuant to a
spoliation sanction at trial based on Defendants’ admitted failure to preserve
video surveillance evidence from the time of the incident.
            Second, Plaintiff argues that the
discovery process is still ongoing and that summary judgement would therefore
be premature.  Namely, Plaintiff asserts
that Plaintiff has not yet deposed defendant Trinity Security Group, LLC
(“Trinity”), and that completing the deposition is essential to uncovering
additional pertinent facts and information to Plaintiff’s cause of action.
REPLY
            In reply, Defendants asserts that it
is undisputed that the assault occurred at a parking lot down the street from
the Bar rather than at the premises, which was closed at the time of the
attack.
Additionally,
Defendants assert that Plaintiff did not raise a triable issue as to the
liability of Mr. Furleys Bar, LLC., Defendant Furleys, LLC and Defendant
Richard Foster, who have no connection to the incident. 
            Defendants further argue that
Plaintiff’s Opposition attempts to contradict Plaintiff’s own deposition
testimony by changing his version of events multiple times—in contradiction the
deposition testimony. Defendants argue these subsequent claims by Plaintiff
that contradict his deposition testimony should thus be disregarded entirely.
            Defendants dispute Plaintiff's
spoliation argument, asserting that they did not preserve security footage of
the time of incident because they had no reason to believe the footage was
relevant to Plaintiff’s assault. Specifically, the police reached out to
Defendants the day after the incident and expressed that the assault occurred
at an unaffiliated valet two addresses away from the Bar.  Police expressed no interest in obtaining
Defendants’ footage, nor did the police subsequently contact Defendants regarding
the topic.  Two years after the assault,
Plaintiff sued Defendants, who by that time had taped over the footage.  Defendants maintain that Plaintiff should
seek necessary footage from the valet—the proper party to this action.
            Defendants argue that there are two
critical problems with Plaintiff’s CCP § 437c(h) request for a
continuance.  First, that Plaintiff
failed to establish how deposing Trinity Security could provide necessary
evidence to oppose Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment; second, that
Plaintiff failed to establish the requisite diligence necessary for a
continuance.  Because this case has been
pending for two years—since April 11, 2022—Defendants challenge Plaintiff’s
claim that discovery related to Trinity is pressing, as Plaintiff would have
done so after being provided deposition dates in May.  
            Finally, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff’s Opposition fails to provide any arguments responding legal
authorities and arguments in Defendants’ Motion regarding ownership, control,
legal duty, and causation, constituting a waiver of opposition.
ANALYSIS
I.          Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff
filed a 680 page “compendium” of exhibits, which includes all of Plaintiff's
evidentiary submissions, including declarations.  While Defendant’s objections are not
individually numbered, the court will consider each objection in the order
Defendants raise them, and address each objection by the number associated with
the order the objections are made in. 
Ruling
on objections - Vivi Devereaux Declaration: 
Overruled: Nos. 1, 3-12, 14
Sustained: Nos. 2 (hearsay), 13
(hearsay)
            Ruling on objections - Declaration
of Scott Defoe.
Overruled: Nos. 15, 16, 19-21, 23,
25
Sustained: Nos.  17 (improper conclusion), 18 (lack of
foundation), 22 (lack of foundation), 24 (lack of foundation), 26 (lack of
foundation), 27 (lack of foundation), 28 (lack of foundation), 29 (lack of
foundation), 30 (lack of foundation), 31 (lack of foundation), 32 (lack of
foundation)
Ruling
on objections – Declaration of Alexander Zeesman.
Overruled: Nos. 33-35, 37
Sustained: Nos. 36 (speculation)
Ruling
on objections – Compendium of Exhibits.
Overruled: Nos. 38, 41
Sustained: Nos. 39 (irrelevant), 40
(irrelevant)
            Plaintiff makes no evidentiary
objections.  
II.         Preliminary Matters 
The
court does not address the issues of alter ego liability and waiver, as
considering these issues is not necessarily to resolve the case at hand.  Rather, the court analyzes the motion for
summary judgment with respect to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action.
III.       Motion for Summary Judgment
Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§437c(c).)  The moving party bears the
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact. 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)
[A]
defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element
of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or
negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment
has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of
action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar,
supra, at p. 855.) 
Under
the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of
the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in
deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not
discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.”
(Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the
plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of
action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred.
(Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
            Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
(Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)
Once
the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of
action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence
showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action.  (Id. at
§437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary
judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and
those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of
summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)
With
respect to negligence a “plaintiff must show that defendants owed [him or] her
a legal duty, that they breached the duty, and that the breach was a proximate
or legal cause of [his or] her injuries.” (Ericson v. Fed. Express Corp. (2008)
162 Cal. App. 4th 1291, 1299–300.) While there is normally no duty to protect
others from third party criminal activity, courts recognize exceptions to this
rule, including the “special relationship” doctrine wherein courts find a
special relationship if the relationship between business proprietors—such as
shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants, patrons, or
invitees. (Id.) Based on the special relationship, “commercial proprietors ...
are required to ‘maintain land in their possession and control in a reasonably
safe condition’ and ... this general duty includes taking ‘reasonable steps to
secure common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties that are
likely to occur in the absence of such precautionary measures.’” (Ericson, supra,
162 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1299–300.) The existence and scope of a duty are
questions of law for the Court’s determination. Id.
A.        Duty/Breach
Defendants
met their initial burden establishing that there is no triable issue of
material fact with respect to at least one essential element of Plaintiff’s
cause of action.  Defendants—except Mr.
Furleys, LLC—do not own the Bar location that Plaintiff patronized the night he
was assaulted. (Foster Decl. ¶ 1-19, Exh. 1-6.) 
This shows of a lack of control required to establish a “special
relationship” that gives rise to a duty to protect Plaintiff against a
third-party assault. Thus, Defendants aside from Mr. Furleys, LLC, make a
sufficient showing that they had no duty to protect Plaintiff.  
Defendants
do acknowledge that defendant Mr. Furleys, LLC, formed a special relationship
with Plaintiff as its patron, and thus had a duty to undertake “reasonable
steps to secure common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of third parties
that [were] likely to occur in the absence of such precautionary measures” and
to take such “appropriate action as is reasonable under the circumstances to
protect patrons.” (Defendants Memo on Points & Authorities p. 16) (quoting
Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal. 4th 224, 244.)  However, because Plaintiff was assaulted
outside the establishment in the parking lot (Plaintiff Deposition p. 10-11,
105), Plaintiff must then show that this duty extends to the parking lot where
the assault occurred by demonstrating “heightened foreseeability in the form of
prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably
foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in the parking lot.” (See
Delgado, supra, 36 Cal. 4th 224, 244.)  
The
Court finds that Mr. Furleys, LLC met its initial burden of establishing the
lack of any duty to Plaintiff.  The
burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show that there is a triable issue of
material fact. Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the requisite control required
for Defendants—not including Mr. Furleys, LLC—over the Bar to establish a
special relationship and, in turn, a duty to protect Plaintiff from
assault.  Rather, Plaintiff provides the
bare statement that the Bar "can not [sic] utilize the parking lot for the
benefit of its bar, have all of its patrons outside and then claim no control
over the parking lot that it utilizes for those patrons" (Opposition p.
7.) Plaintiff provides no case law to support its argument that having access
to and benefiting from a parking lot or similar facility demonstrates
Defendants' control over the area. 
Plaintiff
fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether Defendants had notice of
foreseeable harm that would give rise to a duty to protect Plaintiff from a
third-party assault. Plaintiff provides scant evidence of prior incidents that
would indicate a higher risk to Plaintiff’s safety—a necessary element to
establish a duty to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
provides evidence of two incidents which occurred after the assault.
(Opposition p. 8.)  As Plaintiff even
admits, this evidence has no relation to the issue at hand: whether Defendants
knew or should have known of a heightened risk to Plaintiff. (Id. at fn 2.) 
While
Plaintiff’s expert refers to a prior altercation, Plaintiff fails to provide
how that altercation created a special relationship obligating Defendants to
protect Plaintiff in the parking lot outside the Bar at an uncertain time.
Plaintiff asserts “Defendants had been sued three times in the past five years
for injury-related complaints before this incident” but does not analyze how
three lawsuits categorized extremely broadly as “injury-related” creates a
triable issue regarding notice of heightened danger to the Plaintiff.
(Opposition p. 8) (emphasis in original removed) (citing Exh. 4, Foster Depo at
p. 36, ln. 19.)  These three lawsuits
could pertain to assaults identical to Plaintiff’s alleged assault; however,
Plaintiff here relies on the possibility that these suits might be relevant to
the issue, rather than presenting evidence or allegations of fact that directly
informs the issue.
Notably,
Plaintiff fails to provide arguments with analogy to or reliance on existing
case law to establish the existence of Defendants’ duty to protect Plaintiff in
this instance. Critically here, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ lease
agreement and contract with its security imply that Defendant had tacitly
accepted responsibility for the safety of patrons in the parking lot.
(Opposition p. 5.) However, Plaintiff does not provide any case law suggesting
why this is the case.
B.         Causation
Defendants
argue Plaintiff failed to provide any evidence of causation, relying on
Plaintiff's deposition testimony. 
Namely, Plaintiff's deposition testimony contains admissions from
Plaintiff that he could not identify his attackers as patrons to the Bar, could
not recall any events between when he left the Bar and when he was assaulted in
the parking lot, or whether the assault occurred while the Sherman Oaks
location was open.  (Plaintiff Deposition
p. 10-11, 105.) Defendants contend, and the Court agrees, that Plaintiff’s
deposition, considered in tandem with his lack of any additional evidence to
establish causation, shows that Plaintiff relies solely on speculation that it
is possible Plaintiff was attacked in a manner caused by Defendants.  Thus, Defendants met their initial burden of
establishing a lack of causation.  
Plaintiff
did not meet his burden of raising a triable issue of material fact with
respect to the issue of causation. To the extent Plaintiff provided additional
declarations in its opposition, they carry little weight in attempting to
remedy the admissions Plaintiff made in his deposition. Namely, it “is
well-established in California that a declaration must be disregarded if in
conflict with deposition testimony.” (See D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 1.) As a result, Plaintiff’s declarations cannot be used to
meet the burden of showing a triable issue. 
Plaintiff’s other statements in interrogatories and requests for
admission reinforce the lack of evidence in this case.
Plaintiff
also fails to provide any additional evidence in its opposition to raise a
triable issue of fact as to the element of causation.  While Plaintiff does provide an argument that
Defendants engaged in intentional spoliation by failing to preserve video
surveillance, the evidence it relies on is too weak to support it.  Plaintiff argues that Defendants did receive
constructive notice of Plaintiff’s assault and the relevance of the Bar’s video
surveillance on February 5, 2021, the day after the incident occurred.  However, Plaintiff does not allege facts to
suggest that Defendants intentionally failed to preserve the video recording.
Plaintiff did not bring this action until April 11, 2022—more than one year
after the incident. 
Even
if Defendants had notice of the assault, Plaintiff fails to establish that
Defendants engaged in spoliation. Conversely, the police interaction with
Defendants also suggested a thin, tenuous connection between the recording and
Plaintiff’s assault, which supports the inference that Defendants, not
realizing the continuing interest in keeping the video footage, inadvertently
failed to preserve it.
IV.        Request for Brief Continuance
Code
of Civil Procedure § 437c(h) provides that: “If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion
to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time
on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” 
Plaintiff
requests that the court grant a brief continuance in order to conduct a
deposition of Trinity Security, the security company contracted by Defendant.
(Opposition p. 11.) Plaintiff states that deposing Trinity is “indispensable to
this action,” and will “provide sufficient information” to “determine the
responsibility” of Defendants. (Id.) Moreover, Plaintiff suggests the
deposition may provide evidence relating to the destruction of evidence, the
presence of security on the property at the time of the incident. (Id.)
Despite
Plaintiff’s assertions that deposing Trinity is indispensable to this case,
Plaintiff does not explain what facts, if any, Plaintiff anticipates it will
uncover through deposition that would address the issues the court has
identified to demonstrate a triable issue with respect to each element of
negligence—duty, breach, and causation. 
Rather, Plaintiff’s request relies on speculation that it will uncover
important evidence through deposition which Plaintiff has not been able to
uncover in the two years of prior discovery. 
The court thus denies Plaintiff’s request for a continuance.
RULING
In
light of the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.