  Case Number:  20STCV38141    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Initial Responses 
Moving Party:                   Defendants E & T Foods, Inc. and Baja Ranch
Market 
Responding Party:          N/A
Tentative Ruling:             GRANT
BACKGROUND
On October 5, 2020, Laura Rodriguez Trujillo
("Plaintiff") filed a complaint against E & T Foods, Inc. dba
Baja Ranch Market ("Defendant") for a slip and fall injury on
Defendant's premises, bringing two causes of action for negligence.  
MOVING PARTY POSITION
Defendant moves to compel responses from Plaintiff to
Defendant’s discovery requests in (1) Form Interrogatories, (2) Special
Interrogatories and (3) and production of requested documents; as well as (4)
an order for the truth of each matter specified in the Request for Admission,
Set No. One, served on Plaintiff to be deemed admitted and established.
Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions for Plaintiff’s
refusal to comply with discovery with respect to all four of their motions—with
each motion also requesting $1,225.00 as reasonable costs and attorney fees
Defendant incurred from these proceedings.
ANALYSIS
I.             Legal
Standards
If a party to whom interrogatories were directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(b)-(c); see
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) CCP § 2030.290 contains no time limit for a motion
to compel where no responses have been served. All that needs to be shown in
the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)
Where there has been no timely response to a request for
admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280(b).) CCP § 2033.280(c) states, in relevant part: “The court
shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.
If a party to whom requests for production of documents were
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300(b)-(c).) CCP § 2031.300 contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served. The propounding party need not demonstrate
good cause or satisfy a meet-and-confer requirement – all that needs to be
shown in the moving papers is that a set of requests for production of
documents was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond
has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 403-04.)
A.           Motions to
compel responses to discovery requests and admit the truth of matters asserted
On July 17, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff electronically
with Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Demand for Production of
Documents, and Request for Admissions, Set Number One (Sarmiento Decl., Exh.
A.)  Responses were due August 18, 2023,
and the deadline to respond extended to October, 13, 2023.  On May 4, 2024. Defendant sent Plaintiff's
counsel an email regarding the overdue discovery responses (Id., Exh. B) and
received no reply.  Defense counsel
reached out several more times throughout May and June of 2024 to Plaintiff's
counsel, but received no response.  
The Court finds that Defendant establishes Plaintiff’s
failure to serve timely responses to discovery requests, including the Form and
Special Interrogatories, Demand for Production of Evidence, and Request for
Admissions (Set One). Despite Defendant providing an extension of several
months for Plaintiff to respond and making several meet-and-confer efforts,
Plaintiff did not respond to the discovery requests. Plaintiff does not oppose
this motion and, therefore, fails to show why the court should not grant it.
Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
to deem Requests for Admissions (Set One) Admitted. The court deems admitted
the truth of the matters set forth in Requests for Admissions (Set One) to
Plaintiff.  The court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for Production of Documents.  The
court orders Plaintiff to provide verified responses, without objections and to
produce responsive documents within 30 days of the date of this ruling.  The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel
responses to Form and Special Interrogatories (Set One). The court orders
Plaintiff serve verified responses, without objections, to Special
Interrogatories (Set One), within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
B.           Attorney
fees
In each of the four submitted motions, Defendant requests
$1,225.00 in costs and attorneys fees based on $350.00 hourly rate attested to
in Defendant counsel’s declaration (Sarmiento Decl.)  
Based on the straightforward nature of these motions and the
lack of an opposition, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $3,500.00 (2.5
hours x $350/hour for each motion).  
The court thus GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record in a total amount of
$3,500 in attorney’s fees and costs. The court orders Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel, jointly and severally, to pay $3,500 to Defendant, through its counsel
of record, within 30 days of the date of this ruling.