  Case Number:  23STCV24378    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Request for  Default Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC Resp. Party:    Defendant  Group Atom Development Inc.   SUBJECT:        Request for  Default Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC Resp. Party:    Defendant  Jose Carlos Uribe   SUBJECT:        Request for  Default Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC Resp. Party:    Defendant  Miguel Uribe   SUBJECT:        Request for  Default Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC Resp. Party:    Defendant  Israel Jimenez Miron   SUBJECT:        Request for  Default Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC Resp. Party:    Defendant  Jose Miguel Salisone Rosas   SUBJECT:        Motion to Set  Aside Default   Moving Party: Defendant Group Atom Development Inc. Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC   SUBJECT:        Motion to Set  Aside Default   Moving Party: Defendant Jose Carlos Uribe Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC   SUBJECT:        Motion to Set  Aside Default   Moving Party: Defendant Miguel Uribe Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC   SUBJECT:        Motion to Set  Aside Default   Moving Party: Defendant Israel Jimenez Miron Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC   SUBJECT:        Motion to Set  Aside Default   Moving Party: Defendant Jose Miguel Salisone Rosas Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC     The Motions to Set  Aside Default are DENIED without prejudice.            The Requests for Default  Judgment are CONTINUED to June 14, 2024.    BACKGROUND:   On October 6,  2023, Plaintiff Sunny and 80 LLC filed its Complaint against Defendants Group  Atom Development Inc., Jose Carlos Uribe, Miguel Uribe, Israel Jimenez Miron  (erroneously sued as “Israel Jimeniz Miron”), and Jose Miguel Salisone Rosas on  causes of action arising from alleged construction work without a license in  violation of the Business and Profession Code.    On January 4,  2024, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on each of  the Defendants.    On February  16 and 20, 2024, Plaintiff submitted filed Judicial Council Form CIV-100,  Request for Court Judgment for each of the Defendants, as well as other  documents in support of Plaintiff’s Requests for Default Judgment.    On February  20, 2024, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without  prejudice the doe defendants from the Complaint.    On March 4,  2024, each of the Defendants filed their own Motion to Set Aside Default. In  addition, each of the individual Defendants filed a declaration, and one  request for judicial notice was filed.   On March 4,  2024, Plaintiff filed amended versions of Judicial Council Form JUD-100,  Proposed Judgment regarding all Defendants except Defendant Israel Jimenez  Miron.    On March 8,  2024, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant  Israel Jimenez Miron. (Default was re-entered due to a prior issue with this  Defendant’s incorrect name in the pleading.) Plaintiff also submitted a  declaration in support of Plaintiff’s Request for Default Judgment against Defendant  Israel Jimenez Miron.    On April 29,  2024, Plaintiff filed Oppositions to each of the five Motions to Set Aside  Default. In support of each Opposition, Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1)  Declaration of William F. Bresee; (2) Supplemental Declaration of William F.  Bresee; (3) Request for Judicial Notice; and (4) Proof of Service.    On May 9,  2024, Defendants filed their Omnibus Reply in support of their Motions to Set  Aside Default.    On May 13,  2024, Plaintiff filed its Objection to Defendants Omnibus Reply.    ANALYSIS:   I.           Objection   Plaintiff’s Counsel filed a document it  titled “Objection to Reply to Defendant’s Opposition to Motion to Set Aside  Entry of Default.”    There appears to be some confusion within the  Objection. In some parts of the Objection, Plaintiff’s Counsel refers to “Defendants’  Opposition to the Motions to Set Aside Default.” (Objection, pp. 1:18–19,  2:7–8.) In other parts of the Object, Plaintiff’s Counsel refers to Defendants’  “reply.” (Id. at p. 1:20–23.)           To clarify, Defendants moved  to vacate the defaults entered against them, and they have filed a single  “Omnibus Reply” in support of their individual Motions to Set Aside Default.  Plaintiff is the party that filed multiple Oppositions to the individual Motions  to Set Aside Default.            Plaintiff’s Counsel argues  that the Omnibus Reply “is late and respectfully should not be considered by  the Court” because the Omnibus Reply “was filed on May 9, 2024, but was due on  May 6, 2024.” (Objection, p. 1:20–23.)           “All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with  the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all  reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 1005, subd. (b), abridged.)           The hearing on the Motions  to Set Aside Default is May 17, 2024. Nine court days before the hearing was  May 6, 2024; five days court days before the hearing was May 10, 2024. As the  Oppositions were all filed on April 29, 2024 and the Omnibus Reply was filed on  May 9, 2024, it appears all the responsive papers in this matter were timely  filed.            The Objection is OVERRULED.    II.       Requests  for Judicial Notice   A.      Defendants’  Request for Judicial Notice   Defendants request that the Court take  judicial notice of a complaint filed in Case No. 23STCV17548, SoCal Lien  Solutions LLC v. Sunny and 80 LLC, et al., filed on July 26, 2023 in the  Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles.            The Court GRANTS judicial  notice of this item.    B.      Plaintiff’s  Request for Judicial Notice   Plaintiff requests that the Court take  judicial notice of a first amended complaint filed in Case No. 23STCV18712, Evolution  Design LLC v. Group Atom Development Inc., et al., filed on October 6, 2023  in the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles.            The Court GRANTS judicial  notice of this item.    III.     Legal  Standard   “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his  or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other  proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be  accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed  therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made  within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,  dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of  merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other  requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for  relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper  form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or  her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting  default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result  in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal  entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or  dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an  attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable  compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this  section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to  trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)   IV.      Discussion   A.      The  Parties’ Arguments   Defendants move the Court to set aside the  defaults entered against them. (Motions to Set Aside Default, p. 4:18–19.)    Defendants argue that relief is appropriate  here pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) due to  their inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect because they thought that  another entity was handling the dispute with Plaintiff in another case.  (Motions to Set Aside Default, p. 3:17–20.)    Defendants submit declarations that attest  under penalty of perjury to the same. (Decls. Miguel Uribe; Jose Carlos Uribe;  Israel Jimenez Miron; Jose Miguel Salisone Rosas.)   Defendants note that they do not present a  proposed answer because they plan to demur that the earlier action precludes  the instant action. (Id. at p. 21–23.)   Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that  Defendants have not shown any credible or competent evidence of mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect sufficient to relieve them from default;  (2) that Defense Counsel’s knowledge of Plaintiff’s action against Defendants  as being separate and distinct from the earlier litigation is imputed to  Defendants, and the inexcusable neglect and failure to respond does not justify  setting aside the default; (3) that the Motions to Set Aside Default should be  denied because Defendants did not submit a proposed responsive pleading; and  (4) that if the Court does set aside the entry of default, attorney’s fees  should be imposed against Defendants and fully paid as a condition precedent  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(1).  (Oppositions, pp. 7, 12–14.)           Defendants reiterate their  arguments in their Omnibus Reply.    B.      Discussion     Defendants have shown credible and competent  evidence of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect.  Specifically, Defendants submitted declaratory evidence that indicates they  were confused about the multiple ongoing actions, did not realize this was a  separate action, and did not realize they needed to respond to this separate  action.    The Court does not agree with Plaintiff that  Defense Counsel’s knowledge should be imputed to Defendants. The Court has not  been presented with evidence that would indicate Defense Counsel (a) actually  had such knowledge and/or (b) actually transmitted such knowledge to any of the  Defendants.    The Court also does not agree that attorney’s  fees are appropriate here. Defendants claim that this was a mistake by  Defendants, not by Defense Counsel. Further, this appears to have been a  reasonable mistake.    However, the Court still cannot set aside any  of the defaults.    “Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the  answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the  application shall not be granted . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  This has been a strictly-enforced rule for over 100 years. (See Bailiff v.  Hildebrandt (1920) 47 Cal.App. 564, 566–567.)   Defense Counsel did not submit a proposed  answer, demurrer, or other pleading to be filed upon setting aside of the  default. Instead, Defense Counsel appears to believe that the statute first  requires setting aside the default before a proposed demurrer is to be  presented to the Court. (Motions to Set Aside Default, p. 3:21–23.)  This is incorrect.  As stated above, “Application for this relief shall be  accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed  therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, . . .”  (CCP §473(b).)   Because Defense Counsel did not provide an  accompanying pleading, the Court must deny the motions.    The Court will continue the Requests for  Default Judgment by one month. Defense Counsel may re-file the motions with the  accompanying pleading to be heard no later than the date of the continued  hearings on the Request for Default Judgment.      V.          Conclusion   The Motions to Set  Aside Default are DENIED without prejudice.            The Requests for Default  Judgment are CONTINUED to June 14, 2024.     