 Case Number:  24STCV05646    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Service of Summons 
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendants Maimouna Ndao, Adam Breuer, Jutta Ndao, in propria persona
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
The Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff La Park La Brea A, LLC filed
its Complaint against Defendants Maimouna Ndao, Adam Breuer, and Jutta Ndao on
a cause of action for unlawful detainer. 
 
On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed various Notices of
Unlawful Detainer. 
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Application to
Serve Summons by Posting for Unlawful Detainer. 
 
On April 2, 2024, the Court issued its Order to Serve
Summons by Posting for Unlawful Detainer. 
 
On April 15, 2024, Specially-Appearing Defendants
Maimouna Ndao, Adam Breuer, and Jutta Ndao, in propria persona filed
their Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
 
On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed Judicial Council Forms
POS-010, Proofs of Service of Summons regarding each Defendant. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“A summons may be
served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete
at the time of such delivery. The date upon which personal delivery is made
shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at the
time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall be
valid and effective.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“In lieu of
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be
served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail,
postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the
summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person
at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
 
“If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
 
“A summons may be
served by mail as provided in this section. A copy of the summons and of the
complaint shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid) to
the person to be served, together with two copies of the notice and
acknowledgment provided for in subdivision (b) and a return envelope, postage
prepaid, addressed to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
 
“Service of a
summons pursuant to this section is deemed complete on the date a written
acknowledgement of receipt of summons is executed, if such acknowledgement
thereafter is returned to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (c).)
 
“A summons may be
served on a person outside this state in any manner provided by this article or
by sending a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.
Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed complete on the 10th day
after such mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
 
II.       Discussion
 
Specially-Appearing
Defendants move the Court to quash service of summons, arguing that the summons
and complaint were not properly served. (Motion, p. 3:10–16.) 
 
Notably,
Specially-Appearing Defendant Adam Breuer Adam Breuer declares, among other
things: (1) that an application for “post and mail” was granted on April 2,
2024; (2) that “papers” were taped to their door on April 6, 2024”; and (3)
that “[s]hould proper service be effectuated, we will withdraw this motion.”
(Motion, p. 4:12–22.)
 
Plaintiff appears to
have responded to the Motion by filing Proofs of Service of Summons, which
include certified mail receipts from the United States Postal Service.
 
There has been no
further response by Specially-Appearing Defendants. 
 
        On
April 2, 2024, the Court ordered: “The defendant(s) named in the application
may be served by posting a copy of the summons and complaint on the premises in
a manner most likely to give actual notice to the defendant(s), and by
immediately mailing, by certified mail, a copy of the summons and complaint to
the defendant(s) at his/her last known address.” (Order to Service Summons by
Posting for Unlawful Detainer, p. 2.)
 
        According
to Specially-Appearing Defendants, the posting did occur after the order;
according to the certified mail receipts provided by Plaintiff, it appears that
the certified mailing has since occurred as well. 
 
        Service
appears proper. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED. 
 