 Case Number:  21STCV26350    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Doe v. Los
Angeles Unified School District, et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV26350
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment
HEARING DATE:   10/22/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§ 437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an
alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made
in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a
legal issue or a claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not
completely dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of
duty pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiff’s objections are OVERULLED.  Plaintiff does not object to specific evidence
being offered, but to the undisputed material facts (UMFs).
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (Doe 1) moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff Jane Doe’s
complaint for negligence arising from alleged acts of sexual abuse by a teacher,
Joeseph Brown (“Brown”), in 1981. (UMF 1.)
 
The complaint states four counts of
negligence against Defendant on three different theories. First, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant improperly supervised, trained, and retained Brown. (Compl.,
¶¶ 31-41.) Second, Defendant failed to report suspected child abuse in violation
of Pen. Code sections 11165 et seq. (Id. ¶¶ 42-52.) Third, Defendant failed to
supervise Plaintiff as a minor student in their care. (Id. ¶¶ 54-60.) The
fourth cause of action for negligence restates the prior duties, alleging that
Defendant failed to prevent Brown’s assault or warn Plaintiff or her parents of
his wrongful conduct. (Id. ¶¶ 62-67.)
 
“To establish a cause of action for
negligence, the plaintiff must show that the defendant had a duty to use due
care, that [it] breached that duty, and that the breach was the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary Sch. Dist.,
(2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 113, 125 (Lawndale).)  “[A] school district and its employees have a
special relationship with the district's pupils, a relationship arising from
the mandatory character of school attendance and the comprehensive control over
students exercised by school personnel, ‘analogous in many ways to the
relationship between parents and their children.’ ” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869 (Hart).) “Because
of this special relationship, imposing obligations beyond what each person
generally owes others,” the “duty of care owed by school personnel includes the
duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at
the hands of third parties acting negligently or intentionally,” including
“injuries to a student resulting from a teacher's sexual assault.” (Id.
at 870.) District administrators thus have a duty to use reasonable measures to
protect students from foreseeable injury caused by their teacher’s intentional
conduct. (Lawndale, supra, 72 Cal. App. 5th at 126.) 
 
For negligent hiring, supervision,
and retention of a school employee, a plaintiff must show that “supervisory or
administrative personnel who allegedly knew, or should have known,” or had
reason to know “of the foreseeable risk to students of sexual abuse by an
employee and nevertheless hired, retained, and/or inadequately supervised that
employee.” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 210, 223.) 
 
For negligent supervision of a
student, a plaintiff must demonstrate that the school personnel failed to
exercise “ordinary prudence” through either “a total lack of supervision” or “ineffective
supervision” which constituted “a lack of ordinary care on the part of those
responsible for student supervision.” (Hart, supra, 53 Cal.4th at 869.) 
 
The Child Abuse and Neglect
Reporting Act (CANRA) requires certain “mandated” reporters, including teachers
and other school employees, “to make a report to a law enforcement agency or a
county welfare department ‘whenever the mandated reporter, in [the mandated
reporter's] professional capacity or within the scope of [the mandated
reporter's] employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated
reporter knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or
neglect.’ ” (B.H. v. County of San Bernardino (2015) 62 Cal.4th 168,
186; see Pen. Code, §§ 11166(a), 11165.7 (a)(1)-(4).) “A mandated reporter has
a ‘reasonable suspicion’ when ‘it is objectively reasonable for a person to
entertain a suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in
a like position, drawing, when appropriate, on his or her training and
experience, to suspect child abuse or neglect. “Reasonable suspicion” does not
require certainty that child abuse or neglect has occurred nor does it require
a specific medical indication of child abuse or neglect; any “reasonable
suspicion” is sufficient.’ ” (B.H., supra, at 186, quoting §
11166(a)(1); Alejo v. City of Alhambra (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1180,
1188-1189 [a failure to make such a report may give rise to a claim of
negligence per se].)
 
In Roe v. Hesperia Unified
School District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, the court found it “objectively
reasonable” for school employees who saw their school janitor have numerous
six-year-old students sit on his lap and whom he also routinely escorted across
campus to empty rooms “to entertain a suspicion” that the janitor could be
sexually abusing students. (Id., at 31.) Under such facts, the student
plaintiffs pled claims for negligent supervision of students and the janitor,
as well as a failure to report under CANRA.
 
In Lawndale, the plaintiff
successfully resisted summary judgment by presenting evidence that the District
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent a music teacher from abusing her.
The plaintiff submitted evidence that other students observed the music
teacher’s inappropriate behavior with plaintiff. (Id. at 122.) Plaintiff
presented an expert declaration from a school administrator and superintendent
which held that the schools’ administrators failed to spot and respond to red
flags due to inadequate supervision. (Id.) The expert opined that it was
insufficient for the music teacher’s supervisor to only check in on the music
teacher’s interactions with students about once a week. (Ibid.) The District
argued that their duty was limited to instances where the district knows
of prior abuse or of a propensity for abuse. (Id. at 126-127.) The Lawndale
court held the Rowland factors do not weigh in favor of limiting the
duty to protect students from sexual abuse by teachers and other school
employees “to cases where school administrators have actual knowledge of prior
sexual misconduct by the teacher or employee and where sexual misconduct is not
‘ambiguous’” as suggested by the district. (Id.)  The court reasoned that public policy
considerations favor “imposing a duty on school districts to take reasonable
measures to identify and respond to potential misconduct, even before a
district knows a specific employee has previously engaged in sexual misconduct[.]”
(Id. at 135.)  
 
Defendant presents evidence that
they did not hire, retain or supervise Brown, or allow Plaintiff to be
supervised by Brown, while LAUSD knew or had reason to suspect Brown presented
a risk of sexual abuse to students. Plaintiff was in sixth grade at Canyon
Elementary (“Canyon”) during the 1980-1981 school year. (UMF 2.) During her
fall semester in fifth grade, Plaintiff attended Baldwin Hills Elementary
("Baldwin"). (UMF 5.) Brown was a teacher at Canyon and at Baldwin
while Plaintiff attended those schools. (UMF 6.) Plaintiff testified that Brown
told her she had "beautiful legs" and was a "sexy girl"
when she was in sixth grade at Canyon. (UMF 11.) Plaintiff did not tell anyone
other than her mother. (UMF 12.) Plaintiff does not know if there was anyone
around during the interaction when Brown commented about her legs. Plaintiff
recalls that there were teachers around within 5-10 feet, but she could not identify
any teachers who might have heard Brown's comment. (UMF 13.) Brown would also
comment on the physical appearance of other students. (UMF 14.) Plaintiff never
reported any of Brown's alleged sexually inappropriate behavior to any LAUSD
employee until after the February 23, 1981, subject sexual assault. (UMF
42.)  
 
Plaintiff testified as to Brown’s
behavior towards students prior to her assault. Plaintiff considered Brown to
be one of the better math teachers at her school. (UMF 10.) He was “fun to be
around" and believed it was "nice to have his attention." (UMF
16.) Prior to the assault, Plaintiff felt positively about Brown. (UMF 17.) Plaintiff
recalls Brown taking photos of teachers and students at Canyon, which was a big
deal for the students back then. (UMF 18-21.) 
            
On the day of the assault, Plaintiff
stayed in class during recess to obtain assignments from Brown because she had
missed school due to an illness. (UMF 22.) Brown assaulted Plaintiff in the
classroom with no one else present. (UMF 23-24.) Plaintiff did not report the
assault that day. (UMF 25, 27.) Another student reported Brown to the police on
February 24, 1981, the day after Brown’s assault of Plaintiff. (UMF 26.) Plaintiff
told her neighbor of the assault, who informed Plaintiff’s parents, who in turn
reported Brown to the police. (UMF 28-29, 43.) LAPD detective Steven Hales
investigated the report, and arrested Brown on or before March 4, 1981. (UMF
30-35.) Detective Hales was not aware of any prior complaints against Brown
prior to Plaintiff's report. (UMF 41-44, 53.) Detective Hales interviewed
Plaintiff's friend J.P., who reported that she was also abused by Brown the day
after Plaintiff. (UMF 32.) Brown was removed from the classroom and no longer
teaching by the time Detective Hales met with the Principal. (UMF 36.)
 
Giving credit to the above
evidence, and resolving all reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiff, Defendants
show that they lacked actual or constructive knowledge of Brown’s propensity to
harm students. LAUSD’s evidence shows its employees first learned of Brown’s
abuse following Plaintiff’s assault. LAUSD did not receive a report regarding
Brown’s inappropriate behavior until Plaintiff and fellow students reported
Brown to the principal. Each witness (including JP and VH) places the report to
the principal after Brown’s abuse of Plaintiff. Detective Hales’s
investigation did not discover any prior complaints of sexual misconduct by
Brown. Thus, there were no reports which would have reasonably put LAUSD on actual
notice of any sexual abuse. 
 
Defendant argument and evidence,
however, does not eliminate the allegations that the teachers at Canyon should
have reasonably suspected Brown of child abuse prior to his assault of
Plaintiff. LAUSD cites evidence which might lead a reasonable mandated reporter
to entertain a suspicion of child abuse. Plaintiff testified that Brown told
her – a sixth grader – that she had "beautiful legs" and was a
"sexy girl" at Canyon. (UMF 11.) Plaintiff does not know if
there was anyone around during the interaction, but recalls that there were
teachers around within earshot, approximately 5-10 feet. (UMF 13.) Brown would
also often comment on the physical appearance of other students. (UMF 14.)
Defendant does not explain why, making all reasonable inferences in favor of
Plaintiff, that this could not lead a reasonable mandated reporter to entertain
a reasonable suspicion of child abuse. 
 
            Even if the
Court accepts Defendant’s position, Plaintiff presents a dispute of material
fact on LAUSD’s constructive knowledge or reasonable suspicion of Brown’s abuse.
Plaintiff presents evidence that could lead a reasonable juror to conclude that
LAUSD should have known or suspected Brown of abusing students before
she was assaulted. Plaintiff asserts that Brown was “noticeably outgoing” and
was overly social with students. (AMF 13.) Plaintiff and students explained
that Brown was the “fun” teacher that let students break the rules, he was
“flirtatious” with students, he was known among students as a “pervert”,
and that he was frequently alone with female students in his classroom with the
doors closed. (AMF 14-18, 26-27.) Brown began grooming Plaintiff in view of
other teachers, by befriending her, winking at her, complimenting her,
rewarding her with hugs when she answered a question correctly in class, and
being affectionate with her and other students while they sat on his lap during
class. (AMF 19-22.) As noted, Brown was popular with students because he would
take pictures of students on the playground, the majority of which were of
female students. (AMF 23-24.)  During
recess, Brown commented on other students’ appearances, including that certain
students were beautiful. (AMF 30.) Notably, other teachers would be on the
field during recess and presumably witnessed this behavior. (AMF 31.) Brown had
Plaintiff transferred into his class, another fact which could lead a mandated
reporter to suspect abuse. (AMF 33.) Thus, there is a dispute of material fact
as to whether LAUSD staff should have reasonably suspected Mr. Brown of child
abuse.
 
            For these
reasons, the motion is DENIED.