  Case Number:  21STCV16330    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV16330




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Tax Costs




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Berta Mirano and Guillermo Munoz
  Mirano




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Fitness International, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
April 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Berta Mirano and Guillermo Munoz Mirano
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Fitness International,
LLC, LA Fitness, Pacific Investors Group, and Does 1 to 20 for injuries Mirano
allegedly sustained from a defective treadmill at a gym. The complaint alleges
causes of action for negligence and premises liability. Guillermo Munoz Mirano,
Berta Mirano’s husband, also alleges a cause of action for loss of
consortium.  
 
On July 7, 2021, Defendant Fitness International, LLC (“Defendant”) filed
an answer. 
 
On September 28, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment. 
 
Judgment for Defendant was entered on November 13, 2023. 
 
On November 14, 2023, Defendant served and filed notice of the entry
of judgment. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant filed and served electronically, its
Memorandum of Costs (forms MC-010 and MC-011), claiming $7,194.79 in costs. 
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to strike
Defendant’s Memorandum of Costs, or in the alternative, Tax Costs. Defendant
opposes and Plaintiffs reply.
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party
is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding. (Code
Civ. Proc. section 1032, subd. (b).) Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, subd. (c)(2), allowable costs “shall be reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its
preparation.”¿Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in
amount.”¿“Items not mentioned in [Section 1033.5] and items assessed upon
application may be allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4).) There is no requirement that copies of bills,
invoices, statements, or any other such documents be attached to the
memorandum. Only if the costs have been put in issue via a motion to tax costs
must supporting documentation be submitted. (Bach v. County of Butte
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308.) 
 
On a motion to tax, “[i]f the items appearing in a cost bill appear to
be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that
they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs. Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to
the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its decision
is reviewed for abuse of discretion. However, because the right to costs is
governed strictly by statute a court has no discretion to award costs not
statutorily authorized.” (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993)
19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774, internal citations omitted.) “The court’s first
determination, therefore, is whether the statute expressly allows the item, and
whether it appears proper on its face. If so, the burden is on the objecting
party to show them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131, internal citations omitted.) The objecting
party does not meet this burden by arguing that the costs were not necessary or
reasonable, but must present evidence and prove that the costs are not
recoverable. (Litt v. Eisenhower Med. Ctr. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1217,
1224; Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs argue the memorandum of costs was untimely
filed and served. “A prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a
memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of service of the notice of
entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.5 or the date of service of written notice of entry of judgment or
dismissal, or within 180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is first.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a)(1).) Here, notice of the entry of judgment
was served on November 14, 2023. Because the Memorandum of Costs was filed the
next day, it is timely. Contrary to Plaintiffs’ assertion, the time to file the
Memorandum of Costs does not begin to run when summary judgment was granted. 
 
Next, Plaintiffs argue that the Memorandum of Costs was not verified
under penalty of perjury. “The memorandum of costs must be verified by a
statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her
knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the
case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a).) Though Plaintiffs cite Code of
Civil Procedure section 446 to argue that the Memorandum must be verified under
penalty of perjury, section 446 only applies to pleadings. Here, the form
Memorandum of Costs complies with the language in rule 3.1700(a), which does
not require a verification “under penalty of perjury.”
 
Next, contrary to Plaintiffs’ assertion, since they did not “recover
any relief against” Defendant, Defendant is the prevailing party in this
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4) [“ ‘Prevailing party’ includes .
. . a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief
against that defendant.”].) Defendant is therefore entitled to recover its
costs.
 
Turning to the merits, Plaintiffs object to and seek to strike the
following portions of Defendant’s memorandum of costs: filing and motion fees,
deposition costs, and other. “An award of costs shall be subject to the
following: . . . Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct
of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its
preparation.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5(c)(2).) 
 
Filing
and Motion Fees
 
Plaintiffs argue these costs are not reasonably necessary for the
conduct of the litigation and unreasonable. Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5(a)(1) expressly allows for filing, motion, and jury fees. The values
appear reasonable on the face of the memorandum and are meant for filings and
motions, except for the minute orders in 1(a), 1(b), and the complaint (1(f)).  The declaration in support of the motion does
not provide evidence regarding the unreasonableness of the remaining motion and
filing fees. Therefore, Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden. Similarly, Defendant
fails to show how downloading the minute order and complaint are motion and
filing fees under section 1033.5. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
strike 1a, 1b, and 1f, totaling $42.00 and denies the motion as to the
remaining costs. 
 
Deposition
Costs
 
Plaintiffs challenge $5,000.04 in deposition costs. Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5(a)(3)(A) expressly authorizes costs for the “[t]aking, video recording,
and transcribing” necessary depositions. Additionally, obtaining business
records through a deposition subpoena is a “deposition” within section
1033.5(a)(3) and recoverable as a cost. (See Naser v. Lakeridge Athletic
Club (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 571, 576-78.)
 
Plaintiffs argue the depositions costs were not reasonably necessary
for the litigation. Looking at the face of the memorandum, the amount for
depositions appears reasonable. Plaintiffs provide no evidence why the amount
is unreasonable. Therefore, the Court denies the motion as to these costs. (See
County of Kern v. Ginn (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 1107, 1113-14 [the party did not
meet its burden where it submitted no affidavits in support of motion to tax
costs, but merely alleged depositions were unnecessary or unreasonable].)
 
Other
 
Lastly, Plaintiffs challenge item 16: the $795.45 fee for the Court
Reporter at the hearing on the motion for summary judgment. They argue this
amount is excluded by section 1033.5(b)(5) which prohibits costs of “[t]ranscripts
of court proceedings not ordered by the court.” However, section 1033.5(a)(11)
permits recovery of “Court reporter fees as established by statute.”[1]
Court reporter fee “charges are not for transcripts. They are for court
reporter fees, an entirely different expense. The parties have to pay the court
reporter regardless of whether anyone orders transcripts.”  (Chaaban v. Wet Seal, Inc. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 49, 58.)   
 
The amount appears reasonable on the face of the Memorandum of Costs.
Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to show that the costs were for transcripts
or otherwise unreasonable. The motion is denied as to this cost.   
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion to strike costs is GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


