 Case Number:  22STCV22265    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  7 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22265




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Stephen Hakim 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 11, 2022, Plaintiff Stephen Hakim (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA,
LLC, and Does 1 to 50, for negligence related to a motor vehicle accident.  
 
On December 26, 2023, the Court held a final status conference. There
were no appearances by either party. On January 8, 2024, the case was called
for trial and there was no appearance by Plaintiff, and no service in this case.
As a result, the Court dismissed the complaint filed by Plaintiff pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 581(b)(3). (Min. Order, 1/8/24.) 
 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set aside the
dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). No opposition has
been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed. The Declaration of Lafayette Clarke (“Counsel”) states that
the previous counsel managing this case left the firm in November 2022. (Clarke
Decl. ¶ 4.) However, all the dates for this case were not calendared in the
firm’s central calendar. (Id. ¶ 7.) After discovering that Plaintiff’s case was
dismissed, Counsel checked the calendar system and discovered that no dates
were calendared out of “inadvertence, mistake or unintended oversight.” (Id. ¶
8–9.)  A calendaring error constitutes excusable
neglect. (Nilsson v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 976,
980.) Counsel contends that Plaintiff had no part in failing to
serve Defendants or appearing for trial. (Clarke Decl. ¶ 11.)   
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
motion to set aside the dismissal. 
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.

 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause re
Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Serve/ Trial Setting Conference for April 9,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 