 Case Number:  22STCV25692    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25692




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval of Minor’s Compromise




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jennifer Espinoza




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of Minor Erika Espinoza, age 15, filed February 20, 2024.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice based on the following reasons:

 
Petitioner states that Claimant is not fully recovered
because she has permanent scars on each arm. Petitioner also indicates that
Claimant has not been treated for injuries related to this incident since July
16, 2021. However, the medical records in attachment 8 only show Claimant’s
condition immediately following the motor vehicle accident. Therefore,
Petitioner must include the most recent records or a report that reflects
Claimant’s current condition. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 10c, describing the terms
of settlement.
 
Petitioner must complete item 11b(3) and include the
relevant attachment. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6) describing the reasons
for apportionment between Claimant and Petitioner. 
 
Petitioner must complete all values in item 12a(1)–(5). 
 
Petitioner indicates that only $14,521.97 is being
reimbursed from the proceeds for medical expenses. Petitioner does not indicate
there are any medical liens in item 12(b)(5)(a)(ii), yet partially completed
item 12b(5)(b). If there are no other outstanding medical liens besides the Medi-Cal
lien, then Petitioner should not complete 12b(5)(b). If there are other medical
liens, then all the information in 12b(5)(b) must be completed. 
 
Petitioner must complete the names, amounts, and expected
dates in item 17f. 
 
Petitioner requests $35,000 in attorney fees. This amount
represents 25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be
reasonable. 
 
Based on the petition, it
appears Petitioner and the attorney have an agreement for services in
connection with this claim. Petitioner must change item 17a(2) and 17e
accordingly. Petitioner must include attachment 17e. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 18b(2).
 
Petitioner must include a proposed Order (MC-351). 
Since Petitioner seeks the funds to be deposited in a
blocked account, Petitioner must also file and complete form MC-355. 
 
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file a proof of service of such.