  Case Number:  23STCV24301    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, June 28, 2024 
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV24301
CASE NAME:                        Leslie Oren v.
Anthem Blue Cross.
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Anthem Blue Cross
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Leslie Orven
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion To
Strike
OPPOSITION:                        06/10/2024
REPLY:                                  06/14/2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On October 5, 2023, Leslie Oren ("Plaintiff")
filed a Complaint against Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
("Defendant" or "Anthem") and Does 1 to 20 for: (1) breach
of contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
On December 1, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and moved to
strike Paragraphs 22 and 34 and the Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
The court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend and granted the
Defendant’s motion to strike without leave to amend as to Paragraph 22 and with
leave to amend as to Paragraph 34 and the prayer for punitive damages. 
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) for: (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging the same causes of action for (1) breach of
contract and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Defendant now demurs to the SAC and moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for
Punitive Damages and Paragraph 50 of the SAC. Plaintiff opposes the motion. The
matter is now before the court. 
discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
Defendant Anthem demurs to the two
causes of action alleged in Plaintiff's SAC because it fails to state
sufficient facts to support a cause of action for breach of contract and breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
The SAC alleges that on February
16, 2023, Plaintiff underwent a medically necessary reconstructive plastic
surgery procedure for her nose. (SAC, ¶ 16, 11.) "The surgery was
performed at a surgical center under general anesthesia and took approximately
six hours. The providers performing the services were Non-Participating
Providers.” (SAC, ¶ 11.) :Services for the surgeon totaled
$83,689.94.” (SAC, ¶ 112.)
 
The SAC alleges that Anthem's
Policy Contract (“Policy”) requires Anthem to pay for all medically necessary
health care services. (SAC, ¶  17.) The Policy included a provision titled “Maximum
Allowed Amount” (“MAA”) which states that for services provided from a Non-
Participating Provider (a provider that does not have a contract with Anthem), the
following applies:
 
For Covered Services You receive from a Non-Participating
Provider, the Maximum Allowed Amount for Your Policy will be one of the
following:
 
1.    
An amount based on our Non-Participating
Provider fee schedule/rate, which we have established, and which we may modify
from time to time, after considering one (1) or more of the following:
reimbursement amounts accepted by like/similar Providers contracted with us,
reimbursement amounts paid by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
for the same services or supplies, and other industry cost, reimbursement and
utilization data; or
 
2.    
An amount based on reimbursement or cost
information from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
("CMS"). When basing the Maximum Allowed Amount upon the level or
method of reimbursement used by CMS, Anthem will update such information, which
is unadjusted for geographic locality, no less than annually; or
 
3.    
An amount based on information provided by a
third party vendor, which may reflect one (1) or more of the following factors:
1) the complexity or severity of treatment; 2) level of skill and experience
required for the treatment; or 3) comparable Providers' fees and costs to
deliver care, or
 
4.    
An amount negotiated by Us or a third-party
vendor which has been agreed to by the Provider. This may include rates for
services coordinated through case management, or:
 
5.    
An amount based on or derived from the total
charges billed by the Non- Participating Provider.
 
6.
An amount based on the Medicaid fee schedule established by the state. When basing
the Maximum Allowed Amount upon the level or method of reimbursement
established by the state for Medicaid, Anthem will update such information no
less than annually.
 
(SAC, ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff asserts that
Anthem breached the Policy by failing to reasonably cover Plaintiff’s
out-of-network surgery, by miscalculating and misapplying any of the options
within the Policy’s MAA provision, and by waiving and estopping their right to
use any of the Policy’s MAA options. (SAC, ¶¶ 25, 43, 48.) Plaintiff also asserts that Anthem
misrepresented to Plaintiff that they had reviewed Plaintiff’s relevant
grievance information when they had not performed any investigation. (SAC, ¶¶ 27,
31, 48.) Further, Plaintiff states that Anthem paid unreasonably low amounts as
part of a scheme to intentionally underpay insureds. (SAC, ¶¶ 24, 42, 48.)
 
Defendant now demurs to the first and second causes of
action for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing. Defendant also moves to strike punitive damages from the SAC.

 
A.             
Breach of Contract
 
To plead a cause of action for
breach of contract, one must allege (1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Oasis West Realty, LLC .v
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821) Additionally, the plaintiff must prove
that damages were proximately caused by the defendant’s breach. (St. Paul
Ins. .v American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.) "If the
action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be
set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference." (Otworth .v
Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 16 Cal.App.3d 452, 459 [internal
citations omitted].)
 
i.          Anthem’s
Failure To Pay A Reasonable Amount As Required by Civil Code § 1611 
 
“[I]n the case of an express contract
reasonable value applies only when the agreement ‘does not determine the amount
of consideration, nor [provide] the method by which it is to be ascertained.” (Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 1131, 1146 citing Civ. Code, § 1611.) When
an express agreement contains a means for a party to determine the amount of
consideration that will be paid, the terms of the agreement apply rather than
the reasonable value of the agreement. “The actual amount plaintiff would be obligated to
pay for the hospital's medical treatment is not listed in the Contract. But the
agreements provide a means by which a patient can ascertain the amount due for
the treatment and services reasonably provided. Because this case involves an express contract
containing a means of determining what plaintiff would have to pay for his
medical care, his reliance on the reasonable value” pursuant to Civ. Code §
1611 “lacks merit.” (Moran, at p. 1147.) 
 
Defendant
Anthem asserts that the reasonable value standard from Civil Code § 1611 should
not be applied to the Policy because the MAA provision in the Policy provides
methods to ascertain the payable amount and encourages the insured to request
information for specific procedures. The court agrees. The Policy constitutes
an express, written agreement that lists six methods by which the insured can
ascertain the amount payable. (SAC, ¶ 12.) Accordingly, the MAA provides
Plaintiff with the means to determine the amount of consideration that
Defendant Anthem will cover for the out of network procedure. Further, Defendant argues that the Endorsement
of the Policy states that “Customer service is also available to assist you
in determining Your Policy’s Maximum Allowed Amount for a particular service
from a Non- Participating Provider.” (Luppnow Decl. Ex. B at pp. 4-5.)  
 
Plaintiff
contends that Civil Code § 1611 applies to the Policy because the six options
outlined in the MAA provision are too vague and ambiguous to be ascertainable. However,
the MAA provision still
provides Plaintiff with means for calculating the payable amount and informs
the insured they can call customer service for a more specific estimate. Thus,
Civil Code § 1611 is not applicable to the Policy. Therefore, Plaintiff ‘s
argument that Defendant Anthem breached the contract by not paying a
consideration of “reasonable value” under Civ. Code § 1611 fails because §1611 is
not applicable given that the MAA provides a method to determine the about Anthem
would cover under the Policy.
 
ii.       Anthem’s Misapplication
and Miscalculation of Any MAA Provisions
The SAC asserts that “even
if a MAA option was chosen, Anthem Life breached the contract by misapplying
and miscalculating the option by failing to account for the nature and extent
of the surgery as any of the options described by Anthem Life in the MAA would
require.” (SAC, ¶ 42.) The SAC alleges that services charged by the
Plaintiff’s surgeon for the procedure totaled $83,689.94. (SAC. ¶ 17.) However,
Anthem calculated a total MAA of $1,350.36, or 1.6% of the total procedure’s
costs. (SAC. ¶ 21.) Accordingly, the SAC alleges Anthem
Life breached the contract by misapplying and miscalculating any MAA option
that was chosen.”  (SAC, ¶ 42.)
Anthem argues that Plaintiff fails to specifically allege in the SAC which
of the six options in the MAA provision was wrongfully applied or how this
application was incorrect. However, Plaintiff pleads that “even if an option
was chosen, it was misapplied and miscalculated because it did not account for
the nature and extent of the surgery as any of the options described by Anthem
Life in the MAA would require.” (SAC,¶ 25.) Plaintiff’s opposition further argues that Anthem
breached the Policy by paying only $1,50.36, which is an amount t too low to
satisfy any of the six MAA options outlined under a proper calculation. 
The court finds these facts sufficient to support a claim for breach of
contract because the SAC alleges that under any
of the six options,  Anthem misapplied or
miscalculated the payment amount resulting in a low payment amount under any of
the stated MAA options. (SAC, ¶¶ 25, 43, 48.) 
Whether Anthem breached the Policy by miscalculating or misapplying the MAA
is a disputed issue of fact. “On a demurrer a court's function
is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint. [Citation.] ‘A
demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure for determining the truth of
disputed facts.’ [Citation.]” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-114.) Therefore, the SAC asserts a viable breach
of the Policy due to Anthem’s misapplication or miscalculation of the MAA
options. 
iii.        Anthem’s
Waiver, Estoppel, and Forfeiture of MAA Provision Rights 
 
“Waiver refers to the act, or
the consequences of the act, of one side. Waiver is the intentional
relinquishment of a known right after full knowledge of the facts and depends
upon the intention of one party only. Waiver does not require any act or
conduct by the other party. Estoppel is applicable where the conduct of
one side has induced the other to take such a position that it would be injured
if the first should be permitted to repudiate its acts.” (DRG/Beverly Hills,
Ltd. v. Chopstix Dim Sum Cafe & Takeout III, Ltd. (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 54, 59.)
The SAC alleges that “Anthem
Life also breached the contract because it waived, and was estopped from
asserting, the application of any MAA option due to its failure to comply with
its legal duty to cite the applicable policy provision authorizing its drastic
reduction of Plaintiff's claim, the MAA option, and explain how that option
resulted in the reduced benefit.” (SAC. ¶ 44.)
The Plaintiff contends
that the Anthem waived their contractual rights to using the MAA provision by
not complying with Insurance Code § 790.03(h)(13) and Cal. Code. tit. 10, §
2695.7(b)(1). The opposition further states that Anthem had a legal obligation
under Insurance Code § 790.03(h)(13) that prohibits insurers from “[f]ailing to
provide promptly a reasonable explanation of the basis relied on in the
insurance policy, in relation to the facts or applicable law, for the denial of
a claim or for the offer of a compromise settlement.” (SAC,
¶ 7.) The opposition also relies on Cal. Code. tit. 10, § 2695.7(b)(1),
which requires an insurer to provide the insured with a writing explaining the
basis of their denial, in whole or in part, and an explanation of their
application of the policy. 
The court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations in the SAC fail to sufficiently allege breach of
contract on the basis that Defendant failed to abide by Insurance Code §
790.03(h)(13) and Cal. Code. tit. 10, § 2695.7(b)(1). Plaintiff asserts that Insurance
Code § 790.03(h)(13) and Cal. Code. tit. 10, § 2695.7(b)(1) apply to the Policy
but fails to show allege facts to showing how Anthem waived and/or is estopped from
applying the MAA provisions to Plaintiff’s claims and who such waiver or
estoppel consisted a breach of the Policy. 
The demurrer as to the
first cause of action is overruled because Plaintiff sufficiently pled a breach
of contract claim by stating that Defendant Anthem miscalculated and misapplied
the terms set in the Policy’s MAA provision. The fact that Plaintiff
failed to allege breach under Civil Code § 1611 or waiver and/or estoppel is
immaterial. (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1680, 1682 [A demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained].)
B.             
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith 
 
“Every contract contains an
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing that no party to the
contract will do anything that would deprive another party of the benefits of
the contract. The implied covenant protects the reasonable expectations of the
contracting parties based on their mutual promises." (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App. 4th
873, 885; see also Guz .v Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 42 Cal. 4ht 317, 349.

The SAC alleges that “Anthem has
breached the duty of good faith and fair dealing owed Plaintiff by the
committing the following acts: 
a)
Creating and using unreasonably low MAA rates for the purpose of underpaying
claims and applying one such unreasonably low MAA reimbursement amount to
drastically underpay Plaintiff's claim; 
b)
Failing to acknowledge that Plaintiff's complicated and lengthy surgery should
not be limited to any type of pre-determined reimbursement rate much less the
unreasonably low rate paid by Anthem; 
c)
Using offshore claims personnel who were not properly trained or supervised and
who Anthem knew were making repeat errors, including failing to recognize and
process complicated and lengthy surgeries with an appropriate reimbursement
amount; 
d)
Failing to
recognize, investigate, and resolve Plaintiff’s grievance as part of a pattern
and practice of a broken grievance system, as alleged herein;
e) Paying an
unreasonably low amount for the surgeon's charges at issue without having
stated in the Policy what the amount of the MAA would be for such services or
stating a method by which the amount could be ascertained as part of a scheme
to underpay charges from Non-Participating Providers; 
f) Misapplying and miscalculating
any MAA option that was chosen by failing to note, understand, or apply the
facts of the claim and drastically underpay it as routine as part of a scheme
to underpay charges from Non-Participating Providers; 
g) Misrepresenting to
Plaintiff that it had reviewed the relevant information relating to her
grievance when, in fact, the grievance department used template language to say
they had performed an investigation when, in fact, no investigation had been
performed; 
h) Misrepresenting facts
and policy provisions and violating Insurance
Code § 790.03(h)(13) and Cal. Code. tit. 10, § 2695.7(b)(1), when denying 98.4%
of the surgeon's charges by failing to identify the applicable policy
provision, failing to explain how using that option Anthem Life calculated the
extremely small payment, and by citing Plaintiff to irrelevant information. 
i)
Other acts of which Plaintiff is currently unaware.
(SAC, ¶ 48.)The SAC
sufficiently alleges that Anthem intentionally acted in several ways that
caused Plaintiff to “suffer a loss of benefits suffered further injury and
disability, great physical and mental stress, pain, and shock to her nervous
systems, great emotional distress, humiliation and anxiety.”  (SAC. ¶ 49.) The court finds that
several allegations within the SAC [LL1] sufficiently
plead a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because
the SAC alleges that Anthem failed to properly investigate and resolve
Plaintiff’s complaints as to the underpayment of Plaintiff’s claim. (SAC, ¶¶
27, 31, 48.)  Plaintiff also pleads that
Anthem used template language to say an investigation had been performed when
in fact there had not been no investigation. (SAC, ¶ 48.) 
Defendant Anthem argues
that the SAC’s allegation that Anthem violated the Insurance Code §
790.03(h)(13) and Cal. Code. tit. 10, § 2695.7(b)(1) does not constitute a
breach of the implied covenant of good faith because the fact that Plaintiff
did not receive a letter explaining the method for which her payable amount was
reached is not the cause of her suffering. The court disagrees with this
reasoning. A claim for a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
“protects the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties based on their
mutual promises.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money
Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App. 4th 873, 885. Plaintiff pleads a
reasonable expectation that their insurance provider, Anthem Life, will
follow the Insurance Code, despite it not being an express term of the
contract. [LL2] Plaintiff
alleges “loss of benefits, suffered further injury and disability, great
physical and mental stress, pain, and shock to her nervous systems, great
emotional distress, humiliation and anxiety” which sufficiently alleges
damages. (SAC. ¶ 49.)
The court finds that the SAC alleges sufficient facts to support a claim for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because the
alleged improper resolution and lack of investigation could ultimately deprive
Plaintiff of the benefits owed under the Policy.  The court overrules the demurer as to the
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendant Anthem seeks to strike
Paragraph 50 from Plaintiff’s SAC as well as the Prayer for punitive damages. The
relevant portions of the SAC that Defendant Anthem seeks to strike, read as
follows:
·      
“Anthem's
conduct, described herein, was intended to cause injury to Plaintiff or was
conduct carried out by Anthem with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights of Plaintiff, subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard to Plaintiff's rights, and was an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to Anthem
with the intention to deprive Plaintiff of property, legal rights, or to
otherwise cause injury, such as to constitute malice oppression or fraud under
California Civil Code section 3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to punitive
damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set an example of Anthem.” (SAC, ¶
50.)
·      
“WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays for judgment against
Anthem as follows:3. Punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set
an example of Anthem.” (SAC, Prayer for Relief.)
 
To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civ. Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing
that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive
damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any
factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) “Malice” is defined in Civ. Code §
3294 (c)(1) as "conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury" or "despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others."
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights”" (Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as
actions that are “base,” “vile,”or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. .v
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
891) Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §3294(c)(3).)
The SAC alleges that Anthem misrepresented “to Plaintiff that it had
reviewed the relevant information relating to her grievance when, in fact, the
grievance department used template language to say they had performed an
investigation when, in fact, no investigation had been performed.” (SAC, ¶  48g.) Further, Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that
Anthem Life miscalculated and misapplied any MAA option that was chosen as a
part of a “scheme to underpay charges from nonparticipating providers.” (SAC, ¶ 48f.) 
The court finds these facts sufficiently allege fraud because Plaintiff states
that they were misled to believe an active investigation into their claim had
been performed when it had not. (SAC, ¶ 
48g.) The court also finds the allegation that Anthem intentionally
underpaid the Plaintiff’s reimbursement claim by failing to note, understand or
apply the facts of the claim to the payable amount and by creating unreasonably
low MAA rates sufficiently allege that Anthem acted with conscious disregard
for Plaintiff’s rights and misrepresented facts about Plaintiff’s claim in
order to deprive Plaintiff of her rights under the Policy.  (SAC, ¶¶ 25, 45, 49, 50.) 
Defendant Anthem argues that Paragraph 50 of the complaint is conclusory and
lacks sufficient facts necessary for seeking punitive damages. However, the court
assesses the SAC in its entirety and finds sufficient factual allegations in
other parts of the SAC that support the allegations in Paragraph 50. Thus, the court
finds the Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to sustain a claim for
punitive damages and denies
the defendant’s motion to strike.
Conclusion
 
Defendant Anthem's demurrer is
overruled and Defendant Anthem’s motion to strike is denied. Defendant to give
notice. 
 
[1Pursuant to CCP  430.41 and
section 435.5(a), the meet and confer requirement has been met. (Vedro Decl. ¶
2.) 




