 Case Number:  22STCV16935    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Intervene filed by State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Plaintiffs
Seanna Stewart and Jordynn-Bell Stewart (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint on May
23, 2022, against Yuan Jeanie Son, and Does 1 to 25 for damages based on an
auto accident on March 16, 2021. 
 
On July
3, 2023, Defendant Yuan Jeanie Son filed an Answer.
 
On September
27, 2023, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed
this motion for leave to intervene for. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure,
section 387, subdivision (d)(1) provides that the court shall, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if “a
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene,” or “[t]he¿person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties.” Additionally, upon timely application, a
court may “permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,¿subd.
(d)(2).) A court will determine the timeliness of a motion to intervene based
on the date when a nonparty “knew or should have known their interests in the
litigation were not being adequately represented.” (Ziani¿Homeowners Assn.
v. Brookfield¿Ziani¿LLC¿(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 274, 282.)¿ 
 
In terms of the form of the
petition, Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) provides that a
nonparty “shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
by ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.”¿ 
 
“Stated differently, to
establish mandatory intervention, a proposed intervener must show (1) “ ‘an
interest relating to the property [or] transaction which is the subject of the
action’”; (2) the party is “ ‘so situated that the disposition of the action
may as a practical matter impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest’ ”; and (3) the party is not adequately represented by existing
parties.” (Edwards v. Heartland Payment Sys., Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
725, 732.)
 
Discussion
 
In order
to intervene in an action, the intervening party must timely file a motion to
intervene in the action or proceeding if a provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene.
 
Here, on
May 23, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendant Yuan Jeanie Son. State
Farm now seeks to intervene. According to State Farm, the Defendant is its
insured, and counsel for Defendant has been unable to contact Defendant to
respond to discovery. (Avedisian Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) 
 
The Court finds State Farm’s motion is timely and
supported by an appropriate substantive showing.  State Farm has an interest in the outcome of this matter
per Insurance Code section 11590(b)(2) as it was the insurer of Defendant at
the time of the accident and can be liable for the damages incurred in the
outcome of this matter. Further, State Farm has established its interests are
not current sufficiently represented by Defendant who is nonresponsive. 
 
Therefore, State Farm’s motion
is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion
for leave to allow State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company to intervene
is GRANTED. 
 
State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company is ordered to file the proposed¿complaint-in-intervention attached to
the motion as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision
(e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.¿¿
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.