  Case Number:  20STCV13267    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Specially Set Hearing for Motion for Summary
Adjudication or in the alternative, Motion to Continue filed by Defendants Container
Freight Transportation, LLC, and Andre L. Johnson.
 
Tentative
The request for special setting is denied.
The request to continue trial is granted.
Background
On April 3, 2020, Plaintiff Diego F.
Ramirez Medina (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants National
Freight, Inc., Andre L. Johnson, and Does 1 to 20, alleging three causes of
action for: (1) General Negligence and (2) Motor Vehicle Negligence.
 
Trial is currently set for March 29,
2024.
 
On December 15, 2023, Defendants Container Freight Transportation, LLC and Andre L. Johnson
( “Defendants) filed a motion for summary adjudication.  The hearing is scheduled for July 29,
2024.  
 
On January 3, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion to specially set the hearing for the motion for summary
adjudication, or in the alternative, to continue trial. 
 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on January
19, 2024. On January 25, 2024, Defendants filed their reply.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
The Court does not have any hearing dates available for a summary adjudication
motion in advance of trial.  Accordingly,
the request for a special setting is denied. 
In addition, the Court notes, Plaintiff argues that any special setting
would be prejudicial.
The Court grants Defendants’ request to continue trial.  Under the clear case law, Defendants have a
right to have a timely filed motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication
heard before trial.  If, as is the case
here, the Court cannot schedule a hearing before the trial date, the only
alternative left is to continue trial.
Conclusion
Defendants’
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
The request for
special setting is denied.
The request to
continue trial is granted.
The trial date
is advanced and continued to a date in early September 2024.  The Final Status Conference is reset based on
the new trial.  All other deadlines
(other than the deadline for a hearing on the motion for summary adjudication)
remain in placed as calculated based on the former trial date of March 29,
2024. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.