  Case Number:  22NWCV00320    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  C PACIFIC SOUTHWEST DISTRICT OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH-MISSOURI SYNOD v.
IRENE JENSEN, ET AL. 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00320
HEARING:
 5/22/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#4
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two is GRANTED.
Peace Lutheran Church is to submit responses in 20 days. 
 
II.           
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two
is GRANTED. Peace Lutheran Church is to submit responses in 20 days. 
 
III.         
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod’s motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set Three is MOOT.  
 
IV.        
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod’s motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set Four is MOOT.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
This
is a quiet title action over land occupied by a church’s former congregation.  This hearing is a continuation. At the April 3,
2024, hearing, the Court ordered the parties to further meet and confer and then
submit a joint statement of outstanding issues within 20 days. The parties untimely
submitted the statement on April 25, 2024. 
 
As
part of the recent meet-and-confer, the parties have resolved their dispute
over form interrogatories numbers 4.1 to 4.2. and 14.1. to 14.2.
 
Form Interrogatories, Set Two
 
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the
Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod moves to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, request numbers 15.1 and 17.1 from defendant Peace
Lutheran Church.

 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 allows a party to file a motion
compelling further responses to form interrogatories if it finds that the
response is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection in the response
is without merit or too general.  
 
Request
number 15.1 asks Defendant to identify each denial of a material allegation and
each special or affirmative defense and for each (a) state all facts upon which
it bases the denial or special or affirmative defense; (b) state the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers and of all persons who have knowledge of those
facts; and (c) identify all documents and other tangible things that support its
denial or special or affirmative defense; and state the name, address, and
telephone number of the person who has each document.
 
Request
number 17.1 states, “Is your response to each request for admission served with
these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that
is not an unqualified admission: (a) state the number of the request; (b) state
all facts upon which you base your response; (c ) state the names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of all persons who have knowledge of those facts, and (d)
identify all documents and other tangible things that support your response and
state the name, address, and telephone number of the person who has each
document or thing.” 
 
In
the joint statement in response to the above requests, Peace Lutheran Church
states that it stands by its objections. It also states, “Since January 10, 1945,
to the Present Date, PLC has been continuously registered as a California
corporation, without interruption, and; has never ceased to exist. Since
September 12, 1980, to the Present Date, PLC has been the continuous and sole
owner of the property located at 4513 Tweedy Blvd., 4523 Tweedy Blvd., the
adjoining wall between them, and the property described in the Los Angeles
County Assessor’s Office as Parcel Nos. 6217-014-056, 6217-014-057 and
6217-015-058 (“SUBJECT PROPERTY”) (Corporation. THE PACIFIC SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
OF THE LUTHERAN CHURCH-MISSOURI SYNOD (“PSWD”) has not now; nor ever; been on
title of the SUBJECT PROPERTY. PSWD, by the constitution and bylaws of THE
LUTHERAN CHURCH MISSOURI SYNOD, 2017, Membership of a congregation in the Synod
gives the Synod no equity in the property of the congregation.” 
 
In response to request number 15.1, Peace Lutheran Church states, “The
discovery request is objected to as premature because the request is made
sooner than the ‘waiting period,’” and “notwithstanding and not waiving these
objections, Defendant responds as follows: See Answer to cross complaint filed
by this Defendant in this action.” But Peace Lutheran Church does not define “waiting
period.” Also, if the question requires reference to some other document, it
should be identified, and its contents summarized so that the answer by itself is fully responsive
to the interrogatory. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
783-784.) Peace Lutheran Church does not do that. Thus, Peace Lutheran’s Church
reference to the answer is improper. 
 
Based on the above, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to request number 15.1. 
 
In response to request number 17.1, Peace Lutheran Church states, “a.
Objection: The Discovery request is objected to as premature because the
request is made sooner than the ‘waiting period’; b. Objection: The request is
otherwise improper; in that it seeks a legal conclusion; c. Objection: The
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable
from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less
expensive; d. Objection: Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the ground
that it is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible, and overbroad, in that the
question lacks specificity; e. Notwithstanding and not waiving these
objections, Defendant responds as follows: See response to Request for
admissions, served alongside these form interrogatories, set two.” 
 
If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the
responding party to justify any objection or failure fully to answer the
interrogatories. (Coy
v. Super. Ct. (Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220-221.) Peace Lutheran Church has not fully
justified any objection or failure fully to answer the interrogatory, not in
its opposition motion or in a separate statement. Thus, Peace Lutheran Church has
not met its burden.
 
Based
on the above, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to request number 17.1. 
                                 
Special
Interrogatories, Set Two 
 
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the
Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 5, 6, and 7. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 allows a party to file a motion
compelling further responses to special interrogatories if it finds that the
response is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection in the response
is without merit or too general.  
 
Special
Interrogatory number 5 asks, “IDENTIFY, for each month of each year from 2017
to present, YOUR communing members.” Special Interrogatory number 6 asks,
“State, for each month of each year from 2017 to present, the days upon which
YOU offered communion.” Special Interrogatory number 7 states, “IDENTIFY, for
each month of each year from 2017 to present, the PERSONS who offered communion
at the church property at Tweedy Boulevard.” 
 
In
its joint statement, Peace Lutheran Church states that the term “communion” is
still vague. It further states, “PSWD, has now provided three different terms
or words which do not define ‘communion’”; “Those terms provided by PSWD are
communion, Holy Communion, and Commune”; “Further, since this is apparently a
religious definition, this terminology is subjective to each and every
individual as a faith issue and how it is practiced.” Peace Lutheran Church
also states, “Notwithstanding this statement, after a diligent search, we have
been unable to locate any documents that are responsive to this request.” 
 
But
the Court does not find the term vague. According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary,
it is a Christian sacrament in which consecrated bread and wine are consumed as
memorials of Christ’s death or as symbols for the realization of a spiritual
union between Christ and communicant or as the body and blood of Christ. <https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/communion>
(as of May 20, 2024).  The Court also
finds Peace Lutheran Church’s assertion that it was unable to locate any
documents inadequate, given that Peace Lutheran Church contends that “communion”
is vague. 
 
Based
on the above, the Court grants the motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 5, 6, and 7. 
 
Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Three and Four
 
Plaintiff Pacific Southwest District of the
Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod moves to compel further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Three and Four pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, numbers 84 to 127 and 131 to 166.     
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion
compelling further responses to document requests if it finds that the response
is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  
 
According
to the joint statement, the parties disagree over the interpretation of Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.280, subdivision (a), which states, “Any documents
or category of documents produced in response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific request
number to which the documents respond.” Despite the disagreement, Peace
Lutheran Church states that it will correlate bates stamp into categories as
requested by Plaintiff by June 16, 2024. 
 
Thus,
the motion to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set Three and Four, numbers 84 to 127 and 131 to 166 is MOOT. 
 
Sanctions
 
In a
motion to compel further discovery responses, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
 
In
its discretion, the Court will not award any monetary sanctions. 
 
 