 Case Number:  23STCP04474    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioner Greatbuildz,
Inc.’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
Petitioner
Greatbuildz, Inc. petitions the court to confirm an arbitration award against
respondent Robert Barron dba All In One
Construction.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 1286 provides, “If a petition or response under” the California
Arbitration Act “is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as
made … unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and
confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceedings.”
Petitioner
duly served and filed this petition.  It
provided adequate proof of service of this petition.  “A copy of the petition and a written
notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon
which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided in the
arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice.”  (CCP § 1290.4(a).)  Petitioner filed proof it personally served
the petition and notice of hearing on respondent Robert Barron dba All In One
Construction on February 27, 2024.  
The
petition complies with all requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section
1285.4.  It includes: (a) a copy of the
arbitration agreement (Petition, attachment 4.b), (b) the name of the
arbitrator, John K. Hart, Esq.; and (c) a copy of the award (Petition, attachment
8.c)).  
Respondent
Robert Barron dba All In One
Construction did not file a response to the petition.  “The allegations of a petition are deemed to
be admitted by a respondent duly served therewith unless a response is duly
served and filed.”  (CCP § 1290.)  Respondent therefore admits the petition’s
allegations.  The court must confirm the
award as made (CCP § 1286) and enter judgment in conformity with it (CCP §
1287.4).
Petitioner
Greatbuildz, Inc.’s petition to confirm arbitration award is granted.  The
final award of $48,575.99 in damages and $3,175 in costs issued by arbitrator John
K. Hart is hereby confirmed.  
Petitioner
Greatbuildz, Inc. shall submit a proposed judgment for the court’s signature
forthwith.  The court hereby sets an
order to show cause re: entry of judgment for April 5, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.