 Case Number:  20STCV27080    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
REBECCA LEE DUDECK,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  20STCV27080
  Hearing Date:  November 3, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for new trial 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 17, 2020, Plaintiff Rebecca
Lee Dudeck filed this action against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting
causes of action for (1) discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to accommodate,
and (4) failure to engage. Plaintiff alleged that she suffers from ADHD, making
her more susceptible to distraction by visual and auditory stimuli. Plaintiff’s
requests for accommodation were allegedly dismissed or rejected. Plaintiff alleged
that she was retaliated against for requesting accommodations and reporting
discrimination. 
            The case was initially assigned to
Judge Rupert Byrdsong. A jury trial took place in July 2023, which returned a
defense verdict. On August 24, 2023, Judge Byrdsong granted judgment in favor
of Defendant. 
            On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion for new trial. Defendant filed its opposition on October 5,
2023. Plaintiff filed her reply on October 10, 2023. Judge Byrdsong recused
himself on October 13, 2023 following the disclosure of a professional
connection to defense counsel. The case was then assigned to Judges Michael
Linfield and William Fahey, and peremptory challenges were granted as to both.
The case is now before this Court. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A motion for new trial may be made on the
grounds of, inter alia, irregularity in the proceedings, insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict, or error in law. (Code Civ. Proc., §
657.) “A new trial shall not be granted upon the ground of insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, nor upon the ground of
excessive or inadequate damages, unless after weighing the evidence the court
is convinced from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom,
that the court or jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or
decision.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
“The standard for disqualification is
fundamentally an objective one and not limited to actual bias.” (Christie v.
City of El Centro (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 767, 776.) “Disqualification is
mandated if a reasonable person would entertain doubts concerning the judge’s
impartiality.” (Ibid.) “Except in very limited circumstances not
applicable here, a disqualified judge has no power to act in any proceedings
after his or her disqualification.” (Ibid.) “[D]isqualification occurs
when the facts creating disqualification arise, not when disqualification is
established.” (Ibid.)  
“[A] judgment rendered by a disqualified
judge is void.” (Giometti v. Etienne (1934) 219 Cal. 687, 689.) “Relief
is available to a party who, with due diligence, discovers the grounds for
disqualification only after judgment is entered or appeal filed.” (Christie,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 776.) “Although a party has an obligation
to act diligently, he or she is not required to launch a search to discover
information that a judicial officer should have disclosed.” (Id. at pp.
776-77.) “Because an order rendered by a disqualified judge is null and void,
it will be set aside without determining if the order was meritorious.” (Id.
at p. 777.) “[W]hether void or voidable, the order must be vacated.” (Id.
at p. 780.)    
Here, Judge Byrdsong was “professionally
acquainted with [defense] Counsel Goldsmith because both were members of the
same labor and employment related bar associations.” (October 13, 2023 Minute
Order, p. 1.) Judge Byrdsong “provided several endorsements of Ms. Goldsmith”
on the networking website LinkedIn. (Ibid.) Due to this connection, Judge
Byrdsong recused himself in the interests of justice. (Ibid.) 
Judge Byrdsong’s professional acquaintance
with and public endorsement of defense counsel was such that “[a] person aware
of the facts might reasonably entertain a doubt that the judge would be able to
be impartial,” and “recusal would further the interests of justice.” (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 170.1(a)(6)(A).) The facts giving rise to disqualification arose
before trial. Because “[t]he acts of a judge subject to disqualification are
void” (Christie, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 776), a new trial is
warranted.  
With this order, the Court does not find nor
intend to suggest any wrongdoing by either counsel. The disqualification and corresponding
voidness of the trial were caused solely by “information that [the] judicial
officer should have disclosed.” (See Christie, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 776-77.) 
CONCLUSION
            Due to the professional connection
between Judge Byrdsong and defense counsel which raises concerns about
impartiality, the Court finds a new trial necessary in the interests of
justice. Plaintiff’s motion for new trial is GRANTED.   