 Case Number:  23STCV17983    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANDRE
  NESBIT                            
     
    vs.
 
WALGREENS
    
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV17983   
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 14, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
            On
8/1/2023, Plaintiff Andre Nesbit (Plaintiff) filed suit against Walgreens,
alleging negligence per se. 
 
            On
3/7/2024, Plaintiff moved for summary judgment. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Plaintiff’s
moving papers fail to comply with the procedural and evidentiary requirements
of Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, and the Court is thus unable to reach the merits of
the motion. 
 
            The
original moving papers were not supported by a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence. (CCP § 437c(b)(1)).
            
            Then,
Plaintiff proceeded to file four different versions of Separate Statements as
recently as 2/28/2024. Plaintiff is not entitled to continue to file amended
versions of moving papers. Rather, Plaintiff was required to submit a Separate
Statement as part of his original motion, and such Separate Statement was required
to be provided 75 days prior to the noticed hearing. 
 
            Moreover,
even setting this defect aside, Plaintiff’s Separate Statement is in violation
of CRC 3.1350 in that it fails to cite to any supporting evidence. Rather, each
fact merely states that “[t]his is supported by the Plaintiff’s declaration and
exhibit List.” It is not the onus of the Court to sift through Plaintiff’s
Compendium of Evidence to identify which documents purportedly support the
underlying contention. 
 
            The
Court urges Plaintiff to obtain counsel to assist him in the litigation of this
action. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 