 Case Number:  23NWCV02824    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  C PASSPORT FOODS USA, LLC v. PASSPORT FOODS (SVC) LLC, ET AL.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02824
HEARING:   2/28/24 @ 9:30 AM
#6
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Passport Foods USA, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Further Documents is GRANTED as set forth below.  Monetary sanctions are denied for both
parties. 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Passport Foods USA, LLC moves to
compel Defendant Passport Foods (SVC) to produce its tax documents pursuant to
the court order of November 21, 2023. Defendant has only produced its income
tax returns from 2020 and 2021 and Plaintiff requests payroll records. Plaintiff
also requests monetary sanctions.  
Background
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Passport Foods (SVC) fraudulently represented to its
senior secured lender, Continental Republic, that it had accounts receivable
worth $1,759,669 when the accounts receivable was worth only $25,000.
Continental Republic then foreclosed on Passport Foods (SVC)’s assets. Continental
Republic later sold the assets to Plaintiff. One of the assets allegedly sold
was the Employee Retention Tax Credit. Plaintiff sues for fraud, conversion,
money had and received, tortious interference with contract, breach of
contract, and declaratory relief.  
Legal
Standard
A motion to compel further production of
documents applies to discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) The
instant motion did not arise out of a discovery dispute. Hence, the court applies
a different law. 
Courts have inherent power, as well as power under
section 187 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to adopt any
suitable method of practice if the procedure is not specified by statute or by
rules adopted by the Judicial Council. (Tide Water Associated Oil Co. v. Super. Ct. of L.A. County. (1955) 43 Cal.2d 815, 825.) 
 
Plaintiff requests payroll records, but Defendants
argue payroll records lie outside the court’s prior order concerning “tax
documents.” Defendants assert that they complied with the court’s prior order
and turned over all documents related to its tax refunds. (Decl. J. Fazio, ¶
2.) Defendants also request monetary sanctions. In reply, Plaintiff argues that
the payroll records lie within the court’s order. 
 
On
November 21, 2023, the Court ordered Passport Foods (SVC) to turn over its tax
documents on the grounds that it had agreed to do so in its asset purchase
agreement. The agreement states, “All of Debtor’s
rights in…tax refunds and tax refund claims, as well as Debtor’s books and
records relating to any of the foregoing.” (Compl., Ex. A, Sale Assets ¶ 9.) 
The issue arose in the context of Plaintiff’s September
29, 2023 Ex Parte Application for a Temporary Restraining Order and an Order to
Show Cause Why a Preliminary Injunction Should Not Issue.  Plaintiff sought a temporary restraining
order directing funds derived from the ERTC received by Defendants into an
escrow account or, in the alternative, an order that Defendants provide tax documents
to Plaintiff so Plaintiff can file an amended tax return on behalf of SVC.    
In their Response filed on November 1, 2023,
Defendants argued that they never applied for the ERTC and therefore no tax
credits were received. Defendants contended that SVC had no intention of
applying for the ERTC and potentially opening itself up to civil and/or
criminal liability.  Defendants also
argued that Plaintiff has no right to file for the ERTC on behalf of SVC, as
SVC was well within its rights to refuse to file for this optional tax relief
program and Plaintiff cannot now force SVC to apply for this program.
As the parties have noted, the Court’s November
21, 2023 order explicitly did not authorize Plaintiff to file an amended tax
return.  Yet, Plaintiff argues that the
Court did not prohibit Plaintiff from doing so.  Clearly, Plaintiff is seeking the discovery
at issue in order to file an amended tax return, and Defendants dispute
Plaintiff’s ability to do so.
Plaintiff’s ability to file an amended tax
return was addressed, but arguably not decided, by the Court in its November
21, 2023 order.  Although the Court may
have left the issue unresolved, the Court did order Defendant SVC to turn over
its tax documents in accordance with the Asset Purchase Agreement.  The agreement provided for the sale of “All
of Debtor’s rights in…tax refunds and tax refund claims, as well as Debtor’s
books and records relating to any of the foregoing.” (Compl., Ex. A, Sale
Assets ¶ 9.)  The Court determines that
the discovery at issue is within the scope of the Court’s November 21, 2023
order and Defendants are required to comply. 
Defendants are not foreclosed from separately filing a request to enjoin
Plaintiff from filing an amended tax return. 

Therefore, the Court orders Defendants to
produce the following: (1) documents evidencing the wages, salaries, and other
compensation paid between March 13, 2020, and December 31, 2021; (2) if there
was a gross decline of receipts in 2019, 2020, and through the third quarter of
2021, documents evidencing such; and (3) the number of full-time employees from
2019 to quarter three of 2021. The above aligns with Plaintiff’s requests as
stated in its reply brief and does not identify personal information. 
The Court declines to impose sanctions on
either party.  