  Case Number:  20STCV47123    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  49 Vista Land, LLC v. EIJ, Inc. et al.DEFENDANT GREG ROYSTON’S MOTION FOR ORDER OFFSETTING ATTORNEY’S FEE AWARDS MOVING PARTY: Defendant Greg Royston RESPONDING PARTY(S): Vip Bhola (former counsel for Plaintiff Vista Land)STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  This action arises out of the sale of real property located at 5529 Vanalden Street in Tarzana, California.  Plaintiff Vista Land (“Vista”) alleges it purchased the real property after being the highest bidder at a Trustee’s foreclosure sale on September 8, 2020, where it purchased the Second Deed of Trust on the property.  Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges Defendants, who owned the First Deed of Trust on the property, engaged in a conspiracy to defraud Plaintiff. Plaintiff obtained a TRO on January 7, 2021, enjoining any non-judicial foreclosure action against the property.  It is further alleged that on October 6, 2021, Defendant AWBCO recorded a notice of Assignment of the Deed of Trust to R&R Real Properties, LLC (“R&R.”)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant AWCBO’s attorney of record, Raymond Robinson (“Robinson”) is the Managing Member of R&R and incorporated the company.  R&R allegedly conducted a nonjudicial foreclosure of the property on October 21, 2021, and then entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Frank Sillman (“Sillman.”) Accordingly, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental Complaint on February 23, 2022, containing an eleventh cause of action for Embezzlement against EIJ, a twelfth cause of action for wrongful foreclosure against Robinson and eighteen other Defendants, and a thirteenth cause of action for Criminal extortion against Robinson and four other defendants.  That operative pleading is now the Verified Third Amended Complaint and Second Amended Supplemental Complaint.On May 31, 2023, this court awarded Plaintiff’s former counsel, Vip Bhola, attorney’s fees in the amount of $61,875.00 against Defendants Greg Royston and Raymond Robinson, jointly and severally. This award arose from a proceeding finding these Defendants guilty of contempt. Then, in a related lawsuit, 23STCV25484, Vipan Kant Bhola v. Gregory T. Royston, et al., Bhola alleged that Defendant Royston had made a fraudulent transfer in attempts to avoid action on the attorney’s fee award, and obtained a lis pendens on Royston’s property. Upon motion by Royston to extinguish the lis pendens, this court found Bhola could not establish the probable validity of the claim. Thereafter, this court awarded Defendant Royston $16,500 in attorney’s fees and $1,223.12 in costs for successfully moving to extinguish the lis pendens.Defendant Greg Royston now moves for an order offsetting the two attorney’s fee awards. Vipan Bhola opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Offset Attorney’s Fee Awards is GRANTED.This Court orders Bhola to file a Partial Satisfaction of Judgment as to his judgment obtained in this case, in the amount of $17,723.12.  Royston is to file a Full Satisfaction of Judgment as to his judgment obtained in the related case (23STCV25484).  Both of these are to be filed within ten (10) days.Defendant Royston is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion for Order Offsetting Attorney’s Fee Awards A. BackgroundOn December 15, 2021, Plaintiff Vista Land filed a motion to hold Respondents Robinson and Royston in contempt, alleging Respondents had foreclosed upon the property at 5529 Vanalden Street, Tarzana, CA, despite the existence of a preliminary injunction enjoining non-judicial foreclosure. On January 21, 2022, this court issued an Order to Show Cause re contempt against Respondents.  On July 15, 2022, following an eight-hour contempt trial, this Court adjudged Respondents guilty of contempt.On June 1, 2023, after noticed motion by Attorney Vip Bhola as former counsel for Plaintiff in the contempt proceeding, this court awarded Mr. Bhola an award of attorney’s fees in the total amount of $61,875.00, against Defendants Greg Royston and Raymond Robinson, jointly and severally. (See June 01, 2023, Minute Order.)This attorney’s fee award prompted the related case, 23STCV25484, Vipan Kant Bhola v. Gregory T. Royston, et al., in which Bhola alleged that Defendant Royston and his wife, Yuko Royston, transferred all of their interest in real property in Rancho Palos Verdes, CA, to Defendant The YGR Living Trust. (Compl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleged this transfer was an attempt to avoid collection of the judgment for attorney’s fees and in violation of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act, Cal. Civ. Code section 3439 et seq. On December 8, 2023, this court granted Defendant Royston’s motion to expunge the lis pendens on the property, finding Bhola could not establish the probable validity of his claim. (See 12/08/23 Minute Order and Final Ruling.) The court later awarded Royston $16,500 in attorney’s fees and $1,223.12 in costs against Bhola based on his success in defeating the lis pendens. (See 02/07/2024 Minute Order and Final Ruling.)B. AnalysisDefendant Royston moves for an order that the attorney’s fees and costs in his favor and against Vip Bhola in LASC Case no. 23STCV25484 be offset against Bhola’s award of attorney’s fees against Mr. Royston in LASC Case no. 20STCV47123.Generally, “a judgment debtor who has acquired a judgment or claim against his judgment creditor may ask the court in which the judgment against him was rendered to have his judgment or claim offset against the first judgment. The offset of judgment against judgment is a matter of right absent the existence of facts establishing competing equities or an equitable defense precluding the offset.” (Brienza v. Tepper (1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 1839, 1847–48.)In opposition, Bhola argues first that this court lacked jurisdiction to hear the attorney’s fees motion because he dismissed the case prior to the hearing. That argument fails. While a “plaintiff's voluntary dismissal of an action generally deprives the court of jurisdiction in the case…courts have carved out a number of exceptions to this rule in order to give meaning and effect to a former party's statutory rights.” (Pittman v. Beck Park Apartments Ltd. (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 1009, 1022.) “One frequent example of postdismissal or postjudgment retention of jurisdiction occurs when courts hear motions related to attorney fees and costs.” (Id. [citing Barry v. State Bar of California (2017) 2 Cal.5th 318, 326].)Bhola also argues there is no blanket rule mandating an offset, and attempts to distinguish the cases from those cited in the moving papers. While this court agrees there may not be a blanket rule requiring an offset, the distinctions raised by Bhola are ones without a difference. Here, the simple fact is that the parties to this motion have conflicting attorney’s fee awards against each other. Equitable considerations make it appropriate to offset these awards such that any amount owed to Royston is simply credited to the larger award owed to Bhola. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for an Offset is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   April 18, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.