 Case Number:  23CHCV01625    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  9/20/24




Case
  Name: Guadalupe Rodriguez v. City of Los Angeles, City of San Fernando,
  County of Los Angeles, Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, State of
  California, California Highway Patrol, Southern California Regional Rail
  Authority D.B.A. Metrolink, Officer Sgrano 44738, Officer Sjebbins 41090, and
  Does 1 to 50




Case No.
  23CHCV01625



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

SEPTEMBER 20, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01625

 
Motion
filed: 7/1/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles (as to
the Demurrer) and Defendants City of Los Angeles, Officer Sgrano 44738, and
Officer Stebbins 41090 (as to the Motion to Strike)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Guadalupe Rodriguez
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order to grant Defendant’s demurrer to Causes of Action against City of Los
Angeles in Plaintiff’s Complaint, and to strike portions of the Complaint
pertaining to punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Guadalupe Rodriguez (“Plaintiff” or “Rodriguez”) filed the Complaint
against Defendants City
of Los Angeles (“City of LA”), City of San Fernando, County of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, State of California, California Highway
Patrol, Southern California Regional Rail Authority D.B.A. Metrolink, Officer
Sgrano 44738 (“Sgrano”), Officer Stebbins 41090 (hereafter “Stebbins,”
erroneously sued as Sjebbins), and Does 1 to 50, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) Battery (Civ. Code, § 43) (against all Defendants), (2)
Negligence (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2(a), 820(a)) (against all Defendants), (3)
Negligent Hiring, Training and Supervision (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2(a), 820(a))
(against Defendants City of LA, City of San Fernando, County of Los Angeles,
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, State of California, California
Highway Patrol, Southern California Regional Rail Authority D.B.A. Metrolink,
and Does 1 to 50), and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(against Sgrano, Stebbins, and Does 1 to 50.) Subsequently, the Court dismissed
Defendants County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County’s Sheriff’s Department
on March 27, 2024, Defendants City of San Fernando on April 8, 2024, Defendants
State of California and California Highway Patrol on April 22, 2024, and
Southern California Regional Rail Authority on May 6, 2024. The only remaining
named Defendants are City of LA, Sgrano, and Stebbins.
 
On July 1, 2024, Defendants City of LA filed the instant
Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action (the “Demurrer”).
Concurrently, Defendants City of LA, Sgrano, and Stebbins (collectively, the
“Moving Defendants”) filed the instant Motion to Strike (the “Motion”).
Subsequently, Plaintiff Rodriguez filed his Opposition to the Demurrer and the
Motion on September 11, 2024. City of LA replied on September 12, 2024. Moving
Defendants also filed their Reply to the Opposition to the Motion on September
12, 2024.     
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here,
Moving Defendants’ counsel attests that “[p]rior to filing this motion, I
emailed Plaintiff’s counsel about the City’s concerns with the Complaint.
Counsel and I spoke briefly on the telephone on April 23, 2024, concerning the
responsive pleading deadline and the City’s intention to file a demurrer to the
complaint and a motion to strike the punitive damages claim. Plaintiff’s
counsel stated that he needed more time to review the Complaint in light of the
City’s concerns and agreed to an extension for the City and Officers Sgrano and
Stebbins to respond to the Complaint until such time as counsel was able to
meet and confer. Plaintiff’s counsel and I agreed to touch base in mid-May and
schedule a time to meet and confer. Since that time, I have emailed Plaintiff’s
counsel multiple times about the demurrer and motion to strike; however,
Plaintiff’s counsel has not been able to meet and confer further about the
issues raised in the City’s motion.” (Smith Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
            Based
on the above declaration, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirements
are satisfied.
 
B.    
Second Cause
of Action – Negligence
 
1)     
Government
Direct Tort Immunity
 
The
Government Claims Act states that “except as otherwise provided by statute, [a]
public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an
act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other
person.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.)  As the Senate Legislative Committee
explained in the comment to Government Code Section 815, “the practical effect
of this section is to eliminate any common law governmental liability for damages
arising out of torts.”
 
“[D]irect
tort liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring
them to be liable, or at least creating a specific duty of care, and not on the
general tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714.” (Munoz v. City of Union
City, (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1112.) “The cases do make plain,
however, that a verdict against a county must be overturned if it is
erroneously based on a negligence theory.” (Hilts v. Solano County (1968)
265 Cal.App.2d 161, 171.)
 
            In
the Opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Complaint pleads statutory basis –
specifically, Government Code sections 815.2 and 820.
 
            Government
Code section 815.2 provides:
 
“(a) A public entity is
liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee or his personal representative.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided by
statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or
omission of an employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from
liability.”
 
As
such, a governmental entity may be vicariously liable for its employee’s
negligent acts or omissions within the scope of employment, unless the employee
is immune from liability from such injuries. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to identify a specific statute duty that would impose direct
liability on the City of LA for a Negligence claim. Without a specific statute,
Plaintiff’s reliance on Government Code sections 815.2 only supports a theory
of vicarious liability, not direct liability.
 
However,
in reviewing the sufficiency of a complaint against a demurrer, the Court is
not limited to the pleader’s theory of recovery and must determine whether the
allegations of the complaint state a cause of action on any available legal
theory. If it does, the demurrer must be overruled. (Adelman v. Associated
Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 352, 353.) 
 
Therefore,
the Court will proceed to examine the vicarious liability claim against City of
LA to determine whether the Complaint sufficiently alleges a cause of action
under this legal theory.
 
2)      Vicarious Liability
 
With
respect to negligence by a public employee, such an employee is generally
liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the same extent as a private
person. (Gov. Code, § 820, subd. (a).) However, “a public employee is not
liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission where the act or
omission was the result of the exercise of the discretion vested in him,
whether or not such discretion be abused.” (Gov. Code, § 820.2.) (Underlines
added.)
 
Cases analyzing whether there has
been an “exercise of discretion” under section 820.2 “‘draw[ ] the line between “planning”
[or] “operational” functions of government’” and “‘lower-level, or
“ministerial,” decisions that merely implement a basic policy already
formulated.’” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (2021)62 Cal.App.5th 129,
147 (Wong).) 
 
In Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 794 (Lopez), the court
held that “an individual bus driver's decision [not to intervene in one
passenger’s violent assault against another] concerning what form of protective
action to take in a particular case” was “the kind of ministerial,
‘operational’ action ... that is not immunized by ... section 820.2[.] [italics
omitted]” In McCorkle v. City of Los Angeles (1969) 70 Cal.2d
252, 261-262 (McCorkle), the court rejected claims of immunity for a
police officer’s negligent conduct of a traffic investigation. 
 
Conversely, courts have concluded that the
discretionary act statute does immunize officials and agencies against claims
that they unreasonably delayed regulations under which a murdered security
guard might have qualified himself to carry a defensive firearm. (Nunn v.
State of California (1984) 35 Cal.3d 616, 622-623.) Thus, an exercise
of discretion under section 820.2 requires “a policy decision [by a public
employee], consciously balancing risks and advantages”; put differently, that
the employee has “render[ed] a considered decision.” (Johnson v.
State (1968) 69 Cal.2d 782, 793-795.)
 
Here,
the Complaint alleges that “Defendants ... negligently failing to determining
[sic] the fact that Plaintiff posed no threat of physical harm to any person
when she was detained and/or handcuffed, negligently inflicting physical injury
upon Plaintiff as described, and negligently employing excessive force against
Plaintiff when the same was unnecessary and unlawful.” (Compl. ¶ 26.) “The
subject incident was additionally caused by the negligent deployment of the
Defendants and their failure to develop a tactically sound plan for addressing
Plaintiff’s identity.” (Id. ¶ 27.)
 
            Similar
to the defendants’ conduct in McCorkle and Lopez, the Court finds
that the allegations sufficiently plead that Defendants Sgrano and Stebbins’s decision to detain and handcuff
Plaintiff constituted an operational act performed in carrying out mandatory
duties, rather than a policy decision. Consequently, such a decision or action was
not discretionary, but rather ministerial in nature. 
 
Therefore, section 820.2 does not confer immunity upon Officers
Sgrano and Stebbins, as employees of Defendant City of LA, thereby excluding
their employer City of LA from the exception to vicarious liability under this
section.
 
            Based on the above, the Court
OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action.
 
C.   
Third Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Training and
Supervision
 
In California,
an employer may be liable to a third party for negligently hiring or retaining
an unfit employee. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 828, 836.) 
 
“[A] direct claim against a
governmental entity asserting negligent hiring and supervision, when not grounded in the
breach of a statutorily imposed duty owed by the entity to the injured party,
may not be maintained.” (de Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 238, 255-256(de Villers).)
 
However,
our Supreme Court carefully reiterated the distinction between the direct
liability and the vicarious liability of a public entity. As is discussed
previously under the Second Cause of Action analysis, direct liability of a public entity must be founded on a specific
statute either declaring the entity to be liable or creating a specific duty of
care. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a), Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection
Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1180 [“section 1714 is an insufficient
statutory basis for imposing direct liability on public agencies.”]) In
contrast, the
vicarious liability of a public entity for torts committed by its
employees within the course and scope of their employment with the agency.
(Gov. Code, § 820, de Villers, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 251.)
 
In Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 1848, the appellate court held the district could be liable for
plaintiff’s injuries under a theory of vicarious liability for school
personnel’s negligent hiring and supervision of the molester, reasoning that
“[i]n our case, while Ferguson's
conduct in molesting Virginia G. will not be imputed to the District, if individual District employees responsible for hiring and/or
supervising teachers knew or should have known of Ferguson's prior sexual
misconduct toward students, and thus, that he posed a reasonably foreseeable
risk of harm to students under his supervision, including Virginia G., the
employees owed a duty to protect the students from such harm.” (Id. at p. 1855.)
 
In C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School District (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, our Supreme Court clarified that a plaintiff need not to
specifically plead, before
undertaking discovery, “the identity of a government employee whose alleged negligence
is made the basis for vicarious liability under section 815.2[.]” (Id. at p.
872, italics in original.)
 
            Here,
City of LA concedes that C.A. opinion addresses the vicarious liability of an
employer for its employees’ alleged conduct, and stating “[t]he City is not
challenging the Complaint to the extent it is based on vicarious liability as
to the City.” However, it contends that any argument asserted in Plaintiff’s
Opposition that are premised on vicarious liability are moot and do not defeat the
Demurrer. 
 
The
Court disagrees with City of LA’s contention for the fundamental reason that a demurrer must
be overruled if the allegations of the complaint state a cause of action on any
available legal theory. (Adelman, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p.
353.) It is immaterial that Plaintiff argues that one legal theory, namely
direct tort liability against it, must fail, while conceding that an
alternative legal theory of vicarious liability is potentially available based
on the allegations.
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES
the Demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action.
 
D.   
First and
Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional Tort Claims
 
The First Cause of Action – Battery – and the Fourth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – are both common
intentional tort claims. 
 
In its Motion, City of LA merely states that “the
intentional tort claims alleged directly against [it] essentially alleges that
the City stopped and detained Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 5.) It further asserts, “However,
the City cannot take these actions on its own ... the City acts through its
employees.” (Ibid.) 
 
It is evident that the First and Fourth Cause of Action rely
on the theory of vicarious liability. City of LA does not provide legal
analysis to support its Demurrer as to these two causes of action – it neither
argues that insufficient relationships were alleged to establish vicarious
liability nor substantiates that vicarious liability is excepted under
Government Code section 820.2. By contrast, the Court finds that the Complaint
sufficiently alleges the employer-employee relationship giving rise to such
liability. (Compl. ¶¶ 7, 19.)
 
 
Accordingly, as the analysis previously discussed applies to
these two causes of action, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the First
and Fourth Cause of Action. 
            
E.    
Motion to
Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
In its Motion to Strike, Moving Defendants
seeks to strike the following portions from the Complaint:
 
(1)  
Paragraph 27: “The aforementioned acts of the
individual defendants were willful,
wanton, malicious and
oppressive, and justify the awarding of exemplary and punitive damages as
against the individual defendants named herein.”
 
(2)  
Paragraph
39: “Defendants' OFFICER SGRANO 44738 and OFFICER SJEBBINS 41090
and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, conduct was so outrageous as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated by a civilized community.”
 
(3)  
Paragraph
43: “The above-described acts of Defendants OFFICER SGRANO 44738 and OFFICER
SJEBBINS 41090 and DOES 1 through 50, and each of them, were outrageous,
intentional, unlawful, malicious, and committed for the express purpose of
causing Plaintiff to suffer increased humiliation, mental anguish and emotional
and physical distress, and represented conduct which goes beyond all possible
bounds of decency so as to be regarded as utterly intolerable in a civilized
community. The conduct of the above-mentioned Defendants, and each of them, in
confirming and ratifying this conduct was done with the knowledge that
Plaintiff would certainly suffer great physical and emotional distress, and was
undertaken with a wanton and reckless disregard of the consequences to the
Plaintiff.”
 
(4)  
Paragraph
47:“he[sic] aforementioned acts and omissions alleged herein were intended by
each Defendant to cause injury to Plaintiff, and were undertaken with a
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of the Plaintiff as the acts and
omissions were willful, wanton, malicious and oppressive, thereby justifying
the awarding of exemplary and punitive damages against Defendants in an amount
to be determined according to proof at trial.”
 
(5)  
Item
4 of Prayer: “4. For punitive damages against the individual defendants in
their individual capacities in an amount to be determined according to proof at
trial[.]”
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the
[Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the
plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of
the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’
must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.)
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here
must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous
consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins.
Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is
properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht
Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges “malicious”
or “oppressive” conduct in three conclusory paragraphs. (Compl. ¶¶ 24, 43, and
47.) The allegations lack the necessary factual support to establish requisite
evidence for punitive damages. Specifically, the pleadings are devoid of any
detailed factual showing that supports a finding of malice, oppression, or
fraud. Without such factual underpinning, Plaintiff fails to meet the
threshold required to sustain a claim for punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead facts supporting relief for
punitive damages, concluding that Moving Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
justified.
 
Based on the above, the Court
GRANTS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
City of Los Angeles’s Demurrer to the Complaint
is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants
City of Los Angeles, Officer Sgrano 44738, and
Officer Stebbins 41090’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Guadalupe Rodriguez is GRANTED LEAVE TO AMEND the
paragraphs subject to the Motion to Strike within 20 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.