 Case Number:  21STCV21804    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV21804




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Amelia Aguilar 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On June 10, 2021, Plaintiff Amelia
Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants La Mexicana Meat
Market, North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC, and Does 1 to 20 for negligence and
premises liability after allegedly tripping and falling on a mat.   
 
            Plaintiff
now moves to compel the deposition of North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC’s
(“Defendant”) president, Moon Y. Kang. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions.
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party . . . ,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Krystale L. Rosal shows multiple efforts to contact
Defendant’s counsel, through email or voicemail, in order to schedule the
subject deposition. (Rosal Decl. ¶ 21, Exh. L.) After Kang did not appear for
the deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel requested alternative dates from Defendant.
(Id. ¶ 22.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Moon Y. Kang (“Kang”) set
for August 25, 2023. Defendant objected on the basis that the date was
unilaterally set. (Rosal Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) However, when Plaintiff emailed asking
for alternative dates, Defendant did not respond. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. E.) Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed multiple times and left voicemails throughout October and
November 2023 for dates. (Id. ¶¶ 8-14.) Defendant did not respond. On
November 13, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with a notice to take Kang’s
deposition on December 5, 2023. (Id. ¶ 15, Exh. F.) On November 30,
2023, Defendant served an objection arguing that a subpoena was required, and
the witness was unavailable on the date unilaterally set. (Id. ¶ 17,
Exh. H.) Plaintiff’s counsel stated she would not take the deposition off
calendar until Defendant provided alternative dates. On December 5, 2023, Kang
did not appear at the deposition and Plaintiff obtained a certificate of
nonappearance. (Id. ¶ 20, Exh. K.) As of the date of filing this motion,
Defendant has not provided additional dates. (Id. ¶ 27.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet and confer,
that it served a timely objection, and that the motion is untimely. First,
Defendant relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480(b) to argue that
this motion is untimely. However, the motion is brought pursuant to section
2024.450, which does not contain a time requirement. Second, the Court rejects
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer. Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration describes at least fifteen separate attempts by counsel,
to which Defendant’s counsel did not respond with a proposed date for
deposition. Finally, although Defendant did serve timely objections regarding
the deponent’s unavailability, here, Defendant’s counsel’s complete failure to
respond to numerous efforts by Plaintiff’s counsel to schedule a mutually
convenient date undermines the objection that the deposition was unilaterally
noticed.
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has still not provided
dates for Kang’s deposition. (Reply, 2.) Accordingly, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Plaintiff seeks $1,310 in monetary sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel of record, based on a $250 hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The
Court finds sanctions are warranted. However, the amount requested is excessive
in light of the nature of the motion. Accordingly, the Court awards monetary
sanctions in the amount of $810 (3 hours of attorney time plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s president, Moon Y. Kang’s deposition is GRANTED. Moon
Y. Kang shall appear for deposition within 20 days.
 
The Court further grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $810.00. Defendant North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC and
its counsel of record, jointly and severally, shall pay monetary sanctions in
the amount of $810.00 to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 