  Case Number:  21STCV14402    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV14402




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Pomona Healthcare & Wellness
  Center, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 16, 2021, Plaintiff Mamie Russell, by and through her Power
of Attorney, Della Russell (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants
Pomona Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC dba Park Avenue Healthcare &
Wellness Center, and Does 1 to 100 for the following: (1) elder abuse and
neglect under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Child Protection Act and (2)
a violation of the Patient Bill of Rights.
 
Defendant Pomona Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC dba Park Avenue
Healthcare & Wellness Center (“Defendant”) demurred to the complaint. The
Court sustained the demurrer because Plaintiff’s power of attorney, Della
Russell, filed the complaint on Plaintiff’s behalf. No guardian ad litem was
appointed, and the record did not show that Della Russell was a licensed
attorney. The Court granted leave to amend the complaint if an application for
a guardian ad litem or other proper appearance was made within 20 days. (Min.
Order, 11/20/23.) On November 21, 2023, Defendant mailed notice of the Court’s
order. 
 
Defendant now moves to dismiss Plaintiff’s action pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2), arguing that Plaintiff failed to file an
amended complaint within the time period specified by the Court. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2) states: “The
court may dismiss the complaint as to that defendant when: … (2) Except where
Section 597 applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave
to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court
and either party moves for dismissal.” If a plaintiff fails to amend after the
court has sustained a demurrer, the court may construe the failure to amend as
an admission that the plaintiff cannot cure the defects that the court
identified and dismiss the plaintiff's complaint.  (Cano v. Glover
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 330 [reversing trial court order dismissing without
prejudice, and ordering dismissal with prejudice after plaintiff amended
complaint four times but failed to state a cause of action].) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff was granted leave to amend on the condition that an
application for guardian ad litem or proper appearance was made within 20 days.
Currently, no application for a guardian ad litem has been filed and no
appearance has been made by Plaintiff. Plaintiff has received notice of this
motion by mail and has not filed an opposition. Therefore, because Plaintiff
failed to amend in time, the motion to dismiss as to moving defendant is
granted. Moreover, the only other defendants are Does 1 through 100, who remain
unnamed and unserved since the complaint was filed on April 16, 2021.
Accordingly, the Court dismisses the entirety of the complaint.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant Pomona Healthcare &
Wellness Center, LLC’s motion to dismiss. The action is dismissed with
prejudice and all dates are advanced and vacated. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice
and file a proof of service of such. 