  Case Number:  19STCV42761    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HYUNG KOO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL FITNESS PARTNERS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV42761
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 1, 2024



 
On November 27, 2019, Plaintiff
Hyung Koo filed this personal injury action. 
Plaintiff later identified Defendant Doe 4 as Philmont Management Inc.
On
November 16, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication.
PROCEDURAL CONSIDERATIONS
“Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather
to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously
review complex motions for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine
quickly and efficiently whether material facts are undisputed.”  ((United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides a convenient
and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)
Many of Defendant’s “material facts” are unnecessary
and are not, in fact, material to the claims or defenses.  For example, UMF 4 states,
“Cable crossover machines have been popular in fitness gyms around the world for
many years.”  These are not material facts
for the sake of this motion.  UMF 23 states,
“In fact, all witnesses testified that Philmont was not responsible for the purchase,
delivery, installation, securing, or maintaining of any gym equipment.”  What
a party said or perceived is not a “material fact”; rather, it is evidence of a
fact.  (Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 106 (Reeves).)  “The separate statement should include only material
facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)
“[T]rial
courts have the inherent power to strike proposed ‘undisputed facts’ that fail to
comply with the statutory requirements and that are formulated so as to impede rather
than aid an orderly determination whether the case presents triable material issues
of fact.  If such an order leaves the required
separate statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is justified in
denying the motion on that basis.”  (Reeves, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 106.)
Although
the Court will not strike portions of the separate statement here, counsel is cautioned
to include only facts that are truly material to the motion.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
objections to the Declaration of Brian Park and its Exhibit B are overruled.
BACKGROUND
FACTS
In
2011, Defendant was engaged by Central Plaza to undertake tenant improvement work
to existing office space located in a building owned by Central Plaza.  (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF”  10-11.) 
This tenant improvement work consisted of the construction of new shower/restroom
facilities and partitions, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, fire sprinkler, fire
alarm, and an exterior staircase to the second floor.  (UMF 12.) 
The City of Los Angeles inspected and issued building permits for the work,
which made clear that these newly constructed improvements “were for office use
only, and not in conjunction with any other uses,” the building owner is Central
Plaza, and the permit applicant is Seong Bae Kim (architect).  (UMF 13-14.) 
Defendant is included in these permits as the general contractor for the
construction.  (UMF 15.)  The City of Los Angeles’s final inspection in
connection with the building permits was performed on August 20, 2012, and the City
accepted Defendant’s completed work on August 23, 2012.  (UMF 16.) 
Thereafter, the property owner Central Plaza accepted Defendant’s work and
paid for it.  (UMF 17.)  Defendant undertook no additional work after its
tenant improvements were completed and accepted both by Central Plaza and the City
of Los Angeles on August 23, 2012.  (UMF 22.)
Sometime
after Defendant’s substantive work was completed, in June 2012, the property owner
Central Plaza, the tenant Central Fitness, and/or the architect Seong Bae Kim sought
two separate permits changing the use of the space from office use to a fitness
facility.  (UMF 18.)  The City of Los Angeles performed its final inspection
for the change of use permits on October 11, 2012, and approved and issued the permits
for the facility on November 5, 2012.  (UMF
19.)  Defendant did no further construction
work to obtain these change of use permits. 
(UMF 20.)
All
work undertaken by Defendant was overseen and inspected by the subject property
manager Jamison Services.  (UMF 21.)  Central Plaza did not “just blindly trust” Defendant
and “let them do whatever they want”; Jamison Services monitored Defendant’s work
at all times on behalf of Central Plaza. 
(UMF 28.)  The installation of gym
equipment was outside of the scope of Defendant’s work.  (UMF 24.) 
Defendant did not and could not direct, control or supervise any Central
Fitness or Central Plaza personnel.  (UMF
26.)  Defendant did not own, rent, possess
or control Wilfit Sports Club or the building or real property where Wilfit Sports
Club is located.  (UMF 27.)
The
Cable Crossover Machine was delivered to Wilfit gym by Peter Kilgore in late July
2012.  (Additional Material Facts “AMF” 32.)  The Cable Crossover Machine was never secured
to the wall, never secured to the ceiling, and never secured to the floor of Wilfit
gym.  (AMF 34.)  The Cable Crossover Machine needed to be secured,
as required by the “Securing Equipment Disclaimer” and “Installation Agreement.”  (AMF 36.)
The
“Securing Equipment Disclaimer” reads, “THE FOLLOWING MACHINES MUST NOT BE USED
UNTIL SECURED CORRECTLY BY YOU,” and it was signed and dated by Jinsoo Choi (Assistant
Property Manager/Operations Manager for Jamison Services) on July 18, 2012.  (AMF 37-39.)
The
“Installation Agreement” dated July 18, 2012 reads, “The listed machines must not
be used until secured correctly by you,” and it lists Sung (aka Joseph) Ahn with
his email address as a contact for Installation.  (AMF 42-43, 47.)
Ahn
worked for Defendant from approximately 2009 or 2010 until 2014.  (AMF 48.) 
Ahn’s job duties and responsibilities for Defendant was to provide construction
estimates.  (AMF 49.)  When Ahn estimated the cost of constructing Wilfit
gym, he understood that Defendant was constructing a gym.  (AMF 52.) 
Ahn’s estimate identifies Moo Young as the general for demolition, John Kang
as the electrician, and Jae Hong Lee as mechanical, and all three of them were employees
of Defendant.  (AMF 53.)
When
the construction was almost done, Brian Park (Defendant’s owner and president) learned
that the change of use was being made.  (See
AMF 55, 57.)  Brian Park never did any construction
of Wilfit gym.  (AMF 58.)
On
November 8, 2019, Plaintiff was exercising inside of Wilfit Sports Club and was
injured when the Cable Crossover Machine toppled over and crushed him.  (UMF 1, 3, 5-9; AMF 35.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
The
first and second causes of action allege general negligence and premises liability.  (The third cause of action is not brought against
Defendant.)  Defendant argues that it owed
no legal duty to Plaintiff and did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries.
A
cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) 
The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the
same.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)
A.        Defendant Was Not Responsible for the
Installation of the Cable Crossover Machine and Did Not Cause Plaintiff’s Injuries.
Defendant
argues that it “was not responsible for the purchase, installation, securing, or
maintenance of the subject cable crossover machine.  The uncontroverted evidence shows Philmont personnel
did not purchase, deliver, install, secure, or maintain the subject cable crossover
machine.”  (Motion at pp. 12-13; see id.
at pp. 20-21.)
“In
premises liability cases, summary judgment properly may be granted where a defendant
unequivocally establishes its lack of ownership, possession, or control of property
alleged to be in a dangerous or defective condition.”  (Lopez v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th
705, 714.)
Defendant’s
evidence shows that it was not responsible for the purchase, delivery, installation,
securing, or maintaining of any gym equipment, and installation of gym equipment
was outside the scope of its work.  (UMF 23-24.)  Defendant did not own, rent, possess, or control
the gym or its building.  (UMF 27.)  Defendant did not and could not direct, control,
or supervise any Central Fitness or Central Plaza personnel.  (UMF 23.)
Defendant
has met its moving burden of showing that Plaintiff cannot establish all elements
of his claims—namely Defendant’s duty to Plaintiff and causation of Plaintiff’s
harm.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
Plaintiff
argues that the Cable Crossover machine was delivered to the gym in late July 2012,
and Defendant did not complete construction until August 20, 2012.  (Opposition at p. 7.)  Defendant’s employee Ahn was identified as a contact
for the Installation Agreement.  (Opposition
at p. 9; AMF 42.)  Jamison Services’ Assistant
Property Manager/Operations Manager signed the Securing Equipment Disclaimer, which
read, “THE FOLLOWING MACHINES MUST NOT BE USED UNTIL SECURED CORRECTLY BY YOU.”  (Opposition at p. 10; AMF 37-39.)  Plaintiff therefore argues that “[i]t is black
letter law that contractors like Philmont owe a duty under these circumstances,”
and “triable questions of fact exist whether Philmont was responsible for and actually
did install the gym equipment.”  (Opposition
at p. 10.)
However,
as Plaintiff recognizes, all work undertaken by Defendant was overseen by Jamison
Services—it was not Defendant who oversaw all work.  (See Opposition at p. 10.)  Plaintiff does not cite any evidence that disputes
Defendant’s showing that it was not responsible for installing gym equipment.  The Installation Agreement was completed and signed
by K. Kim as Central Fitness’s General Manager. 
(Opposition, Ex. 9 at p. 7.)  To the
extent that Plaintiff is relying on K. Kim’s representation of Ahn as a responsible
contact for installation, that is hearsay when used to prove the truth of Ahn’s—and
therefore Defendant’s—responsibility for installation.
Summary
judgment is granted on this ground.
B.        Defendant Is Shielded From Liability Under
the Completed and Accepted Doctrine.
Defendant
alternatively argues the defense of the “completed and accepted” doctrine.  (Motion at pp. 17-18; see Answer at p. 9 [“THIRTY-FIRST
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Completed, Inspected and Approved)”].)
“[W]hen
a contractor completes work that is accepted by the owner, the contractor is not
liable to third parties injured as a result of the condition of the work, even if
the contractor was negligent in performing the contract, unless the defect in the
work was latent or concealed.  [Citation.]  The rationale for this doctrine is that an owner
has a duty to inspect the work and ascertain its safety, and thus the owner’s acceptance
of the work shifts liability for its safety to the owner, provided that a reasonable
inspection would disclose the defect.  [Citation.]”  (Jones v. P.S. Development Co., Inc. (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 707, 712.)
All
of Defendant’s work was overseen and inspected by Jamison Services.  (UMF 21.) 
The City of Los Angeles’ final inspection in connection with the “office
use only” building permits was performed on August 20, 2012, and the City accepted
Defendant’s completed work on August 23, 2012. 
(UMF 16; see UMF 13.)  Thereafter,
the property owner Central Plaza accepted Defendant’s work and paid for it.  (UMF 17.) 
Defendant was not involved in the change of use permits.  (UMF 18-20.)
Defendant
has met its burden of showing that its work was inspected and accepted by the owner,
constituting a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
Plaintiff
argues that the defect was latent, so this defense cannot apply.  (Opposition at p. 15.)  “A patent defect can be discovered by the kind
of inspection made in the exercise of ordinary care and prudence, whereas a latent
defect is hidden and would not be discovered by a reasonably careful inspection.”  (Delon Hampton & Associates, Chartered
v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 250, 255.)  “‘[T]he contractor is liable if the work done
and turned over by him is so negligently defective as to be imminently dangerous
to third persons, provided the contractor knows, or should know, of the dangerous
situation created by him, and the owner does not know . . .  and would not discover it by reasonable inspection.’”  (Sanchez v. Swinerton & Walberg Co.
(1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1461, 1466-1467.)
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]he Cable Crossover can be secured by eyebolt (to attach the top
of the machine to the ceiling), wall bracket, or floor plate (to secure the machine
to the floor).  When looking at the photograph
of the machine (Ex. 17), a reasonable person would not be able to see a floor plate
securing the Cable Crossover to the floor. 
A reasonable person would not understand that the Cable Crossover was never
properly secured to the floor by screws.” 
(Opposition at p. 16.)
Plaintiff’s
evidence consists of photographs of the Cable Crossover Machine and its attached
warning labels.  (Opposition, Ex. 17.)  Notably, the warning states that “it is mandatory
to secure the equipment to the wall with the specific fixing screws” and it
directs the reader to the User’s Manual for instructions.  The first photo clearly shows that the Cable Crossover
Machine is not screwed to the wall.  Plaintiff
cites no evidence about securing it with an eyebolt to the ceiling or to a floor
plate.  Plaintiff also does not provide, for
example, an expert declaration attesting to a latent defect.  Instead, the photograph suggests that the fact
that the Cable Crossover Machine was not secured would indeed be discovered by the
owner’s reasonably careful inspection. 
The Court therefore concludes, based on the evidence presented, that the
failure to secure the Cable Crossover Machine was a patent defect.
Plaintiff
has failed to show the existence of a triable issue of fact about whether there
was a latent defect that precludes this defense.
Summary
judgment is granted on this ground.
C.        The Motion Should Not Be Denied Under
Section 437c, Subdivision (h).
Plaintiff
argues that the motion should be denied under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (h) because Koen (aka Ken) Kim refused to sit for deposition.  (Opposition at p. 17.)
If
affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment show that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot be presented, the Court shall
deny the motion or order a continuance to permit additional discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)
Plaintiff
contends that K. Kim’s deposition could uncover why he identified Joseph Ahn on
the Installation Agreement, whether he understood that Defendant was to complete
the installation of gym equipment, and what communications he had with Defendant
and Ahn about the construction of the gym. 
(S. Kim Decl. ¶ 30.)  However, Plaintiff
does not explain how these facts are essential. 
Plaintiff only notes that K. Kim was Peter Kilgore’s main point of contact
for delivery of gym equipment to the gym, and he identified Defendant’s employee
Ahn as a contact for installation.  (Opposition
at pp. 7, 17.)  Whether K. Kim believed Ahn
to be a contact for installation does not rebut Defendant’s evidence that it was
not actually responsible for installation. 
(See Opposition at p. 17.)
Additionally,
Plaintiff’s inability to present these facts is due in large part to its failure
to follow through on deposing K. Kim.  On
January 10, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to compel Koen Kim’s deposition,
noting that Plaintiff agreed to postpone the August 6, 2023 deposition and did not
serve any other deposition subpoena.
The
Court concludes that the motion is not subject to denial or continuance under section
437c, subdivision (h).
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant
is ordered to submit a proposed judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
February 21, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 1st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 