 Case Number:  21STCV27084    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PHILIP LAWRENCE, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PATRIZIO MOI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV27084
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE AMENDED COMPLAINT; GRANTING MOTIONS TO RELIEVE COUNSEL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 1, 2024



 
On July 22, 2021, Plaintiffs Philip Lawrence and
Philmar Studios Inc. filed this action against Defendants Patrizio Moi, Moi
Productions Inc., and The Record Plant Inc.
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel filed motions to be relieved as counsel.
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiffs
provide a redlined copy of the proposed FAC showing all amendments.  (Mulvey Decl., Ex. C.)  Plaintiffs summarize the proposed amendments
in four categories: (1) non-substantive clerical corrections; (2) factual
corrections and/or the inclusion additional facts, allegations and evidence
which was previously omitted from the original complaint; (3) amending the
ninth cause of action to plead all elements under the applicable Civil Code
sections; and (4) the addition of new bases for a cause of action based both on
facts already pled and the facts and evidence which was added.  (Mulvey Decl. ¶ 15.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel “believe[s] the amendment
is necessary and proper in the furtherance of justice, to seek, in good faith,
to correct errors, amend a cause of action consistent with the facts plead
(including facts that were not originally included) and to ensure that the
Plaintiffs have not been deprived of their statutory right to adjudicate their
meritorious claims.”  (Mulvey Decl. ¶
16.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel identifies each
proposed amendment and the reasons for amendment in detail.  (Mulvey Decl. ¶ 18.)  The amendments come after a thorough review
of the file and the facts after counsel substituted in on March 28, 2023.  (Mulvey Decl. ¶ 3.)  Beginning in June 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel
attempted to meet and confer with Defendants about filing the FAC, but
Defendants would not stipulate to its filing. 
(Mulvey Decl. ¶¶ 4, 11.)
Defendants
argue that the motion is untimely and Plaintiffs unduly delayed in seeking
amendment.  (Opposition at pp. 4-6.)  In light of Plaintiffs’ new counsel
substituting in late and attempting to meet and confer with Defendants only
three months after being retained, Plaintiffs did not unduly delay in bringing
this motion.
Defendants
argue that they will be highly prejudiced by amendment because “it would cause
further postponement of the final adjudication on this matter, postponement of
the final assessment of damages, and would likely compromise Defendant’s
ability to collect their damages prior to the disposal of Lawrence’s Bankruptcy
proceedings.”  (Opposition at pp. 11-12.)  Trial is not until October 28, 2024, and
there is no pending request to continue that date.  Accordingly, amendment will not further delay
adjudication of this case.  Defendants
have also known about the nature of the amendments since June 2023.  (Mulvey Decl. ¶ 4.)
Defendants’
other arguments are primarily about the merits of the new claims, including the
sufficiency of pleading and evidentiary support.  (See Opposition at pp. 6-11.)  However, the Court does not ordinarily consider
the validity of the proposed amended pleading when determining whether to grant
leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  The proposed FAC, received
on January 9, 2024, is deemed filed as of February 1, 2024.
Plaintiffs
are ordered to serve the FAC within ten days.
MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS
COUNSEL
Steven
T. Lowe, counsel of record for Plaintiffs Philip Lawrence and Philmar Studios
Inc., seeks to be relieved as counsel. 
Counsel’s declarations state that the clients have been unable to meet
their financial obligations to counsel. 
No party opposed the motions.
Absent
a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should
be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968)
268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.)  Counsel’s
motions comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  Trial is not until October 28, 2024, and
there is no prejudice to Plaintiffs.
On
January 12, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of their motion for
summary adjudication, but the March 14, 2024 hearing reservation was not
cancelled.  Due to the withdrawal of this
motion, the proposed orders no longer contain correct information about the
next hearing dates.  The Court will modify
this information before signing the orders.
The
unopposed motions to be relieved are GRANTED and effective upon filing a proof
of service showing service of the signed Form MC-053 orders and this order on Philip
Lawrence, Philmar Studios Inc., and all parties who have appeared.
However,
“a corporation cannot represent itself in a court of record either in propria
persona or through an officer or agent who is not an attorney.”  (Caressa Camille, Inc. v. Alcoholic
Beverage Control Appeals Bd. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)  Therefore, an Order to Show Cause Re: Failure
to Retain New Counsel for Philmar Studios Inc. is scheduled for 05/03/2024 (May
3, 2024) at 8:30 a.m. in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  Philmar Studios Inc. must retain new counsel
by that date or the Court may dismiss its claims.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 1st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 