 Case Number:  22STCV07210    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BASILIA PUERTO, individually,
  and as Successor in Interest of decedent Javier Jaime Puerto, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AUXILIARY RESIDENTIAL CARE, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV07210
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR ORDER
  THAT DEPOSITION TESTIMONY MAY BE TAKEN ELECTRONICALLY INSTEAD OF STENOGRAPHICALLY
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
February 1, 2024



 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff
Basilia Puerto (individually, and as Successor in Interest of decedent Javier Jaime
Puerto) filed a Motion for Order that Deposition Testimony May Be Taken Electronically
Instead of Stenographically.  Plaintiff seeks
an order that applies to all parties in this action.  (See Motion at p. 2.)  Cross-Defendant CHA Hollywood Medical Center LP
opposes the motion.
When
taking a deposition, “[u]nless the parties agree or the court orders otherwise,
the testimony, as well as any stated objections, shall be taken stenographically.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §. 2025.330, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff
argues that “electronic recording of depositions is often more convenient, more
efficient, and less expensive than stenographic reporting,” and he notes “the well-known
stenographic reporter shortage and the reliability of electronic recording” and
“logistical problems and inefficiencies or being forced to use a stenographic reporter
to record deposition testimony.”  (Motion
at p. 7.)  However, Plaintiff argues only
briefly and generally.  There is no showing
that there are any specific problems with stenographic reporting for depositions
in this case.
Additionally,
as noted by Cross-Defendant (Opposition at p. 4), a stenographic transcript will
still be required in order to offer deposition testimony as evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.340, subd. (m) [“If no
stenographic record of the deposition testimony has previously been made, the party
offering an audio or video recording of that testimony under Section 2025.620 shall
accompany that offer with a stenographic transcript prepared from that recording.”].)
In
reply, Plaintiff argues that deposition transcripts can be unreliable, and “[w]ith
a digital recording, the witness or counsel can listen and correct a transcript
as needed, or the court can listen and make a ruling if the parties cannot agree
on what was said.”  (Reply at p. 2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel observes that “[i]n most depositions
[he has] attended in the last ten years, the stenographic reporters made audio recordings
of the deposition as a backup.”  (Ibid.)  This is not a reason to eschew the requirement
of stenographic reporting because the party noticing the deposition may record the
deposition testimony by audio or video technology as long as that intention is properly
noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.330, subd.
(c).)
The
motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 1st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 