 Case Number:  BC697068    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Ferreira Construction Co., Inc.’s unopposed
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Kyle Olsen (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On
or about May 9, 2017, Plaintiff sustained injuries after his vehicle collided
with an X-Lite guardrail end terminal that bordered I-10.
On March 8, 2018,
Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Valmont
Industries, Inc. (“VII”), Valmont Highway, Armorflex International Limited
(“Armorflex”), Lindsay Corporation (“Lindsay Corp.”), Lindsay Transportation
Solution Sales & Service LLC (“Lindsay TSSS”), Ferreira Construction Co.,
Inc. (“Ferreira”), State of California (“CalTrans”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Negligence
and Negligence Per Se
2.                 
Strict
Liability
3.                 
Negligence

4.                 
Negligence
On May 18, 2018,
Ferreira filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Statewide
Traffic Safety and Signs Inc. and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Contribution
2.                 
Declaratory
Relief
3.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
4.                 
Implied
Indemnity
On June 20, 2018, this case was transferred
from Department 3 of the Personal Injury Court to this instant department.
On August 27,
2018, CalTrans filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against VII,
Valmont Highway, Armorflex, Lindsay Corp., Lindsay TSSS, Ferreira, Powell
Constructors Inc (“Powell”) and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Express
Indemnity
On November
19, 2018, Powell filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against
Ferreira and Moes 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Express
Indemnity
3.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
4.                 
Equitable
Apportionment
5.                 
Implied
Contractual Indemnity 
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On November 14, 2022, Ferreira dismissed its cross-complaint, without prejudice.
On August 31, 2023,
the parties filed a “Stipulation Pursuant to CCP 583.330 to Extend the Time to
Bring Matter to Trial,” extending the trial deadline up to and including June
17, 2024.
On May 10, 2024, the
parties filed a “Stipulation Pursuant to CCP 583.330,” extending the trial
deadline up to and including November 1, 2024.
A Trial Setting
Conference is set for May 28, 2024 in Department 89 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
A Status Conference
Re: 5-Year Statute Date is set for June 6, 2024 in
Department 1 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.

Legal Standard
“Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligators, upon giving notice in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of
Section 1005 . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
“A determination by the court that the settlement was made
in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)
“[T]he intent and policies underlying
section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including
a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.  Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) Additionally, “the trial court’s good faith
determination must take into account the settling tortfeasor’s potential
liability for indemnity to a cotortfeasor, as well as the settling tortfeasor’s
potential liability to the plaintiff.” (Far
West Financial Corp. v. D&S Co. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn. 16.) “If
section 877.6 is to serve the ends of justice, it must prevent a party from
purchasing protection from its indemnification obligation at bargain-basement
prices.” (Long Beach Memorial Medical
Center v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 865, 876.)
The moving party’s initial evidentiary burden depends on
whether the good faith of the settlement is being contested. If the nonsettling
defendants do not oppose the motion on the good faith issue, a “barebones”
motion which sets forth the grounds of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case, is sufficient. (City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
Discussion
Ferreira moves the court for an
orders determining that the settlement between Plaintiff, Ferreira, CalTrans
and Powell is a good faith settlement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§
877 and 877.6 and barring all present and future claims, actions and
prosecutions of any complaints or cross-complaints by any party for equitable
or implied comparative contribution, equitable or implied partial comparative
contribution, or equitable or implied partial comparative indemnity against
Ferreira, CalTrans and Powell (collectively, “Construction Defendants”) by any
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor pertaining to this matter.
Merits
The
motion is unopposed; [2] in
this situation, it is enough for Ferreira to make a “barebones motion which
sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets
forth a brief background of the case…” (City
of Grand Terrace, supra, 192
Cal.App.3d at 1261.)
Ferriera’s
motion meets this lower threshold. 
The
motion provides the requisite “brief background of the case.” The motion
recites that the settlement was entered into in good faith and addresses the Tech-Bilt factors. The terms of the
settlement are as follows: (1) Construction Defendants will pay Plaintiff
$9,250,000.00, contingent upon approval of this instant motion, (2) each party
will bear its own attorney’s fees and costs, (3) Plaintiff will be responsible
for any liens, release Construction Defendants from unknown and future claims
and will dismiss Construction Defendants with prejudice and (4) each
Construction Defendant will dismiss any cross-claims it may have against
Plaintiff or any of the other defendants, and waive any future claims of
indemnity or contribution against Plaintiff, the Construction Defendants and/or
the Lindsay Defendants (referred to as “Products Defendants”). (Ulloa Decl., ¶¶
11 and 12).
This
case involves an automobile accident involving Plaintiff, who, at approximately
2:20 a.m. on the morning of May 9, 2017, was driving his Silver Chevy Silverado
Truck on the I-10 eastbound near the City of Pomona. (Id., ¶ 2).
Plaintiff asserts that he fell asleep and that his truck veered off the highway
near the Fairplex Drive offramp. (Id.) Plaintiff drove up an embankment
and hit the terminus portion of the X-Lite Guardrail system at a negative 7-10
degree angle. (Id.)
Plaintiff
alleges that the terminus portion of the X-Lite system failed to telescope as
it was designed to do and pierced the vehicle’s driver’s compartment, striking
him in the right groin area and piercing his right leg and buttocks. (Id.,
¶ 3). The guardrail passed through the bottom of the driver’s side backrest and
exited out the back of the truck’s cab. (Id.)
Ferriera
asserts that Plaintiff’s allegations in this case can be divided into
(1) a products liability claim based on defect theories against the Products
Defendants who were involved in the design, manufacture, and sale of the
guardrail system and (2) a negligence claim against the Construction
Defendants, which includes the end user and installers of the guardrail system.
(Id., ¶ 4).
On
January 24, 2024, the Construction Defendants and Plaintiff mediated this
matter before the Hon. Cesar Sarmiento (Ret.) (“Sarmiento”).[3]
Sarmiento produced a Mediator’s Settlement Proposal, which the Construction
Defendants and Plaintiff approved. (Id., ¶ 10, Exh. B.) The parties,
including Plaintiff and all Defendants, have exchanged comprehensive written
discovery and conducted depositions of pertinent witnesses. (Id., ¶ 14).
The court
determines that the settlement entered into between Plaintiff and the
Construction Defendants was made in good faith. Thus, the unopposed motion is granted.
 


