 Case Number:  24STCV03364    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
TRIXXI CLOTHING
  COMPANY, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MEIGUI, LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV03364
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to stay arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff Trixxi
Clothing Company, Inc. filed this action against Defendants Meigui, LLC, Shirin
Moftakhar, and Gabriella Ferrari, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) interference with contract, (4)
misappropriation of trade secrets, (5) trademark infringement, (6) unfair
business practices, (7) common law unfair business practices, and (8)
conversion. 
            Defendants Moftakhar and Ferrari
worked for Plaintiff as Director of Design and Director of Sales, respectively.
The complaint is premised on Moftakhar’s and Ferrari’s formation of a competing
company, Defendant Meigui, LLC. 
            Prior to filing this action,
Plaintiff initiated a JAMS arbitration on December 19, 2023, alleging that
Moftakhar and Ferrari formed a competing business in violation of their
employment agreements and misappropriated Plaintiff’s confidential information.
(O’Kane Decl., Ex. 1.) Moftakhar and Ferrari filed their response on January
16, 2024. (Id., Ex. 5.) An arbitrator was appointed on January 29, 2024
after a rank and strike process. (Id., Ex. 6.) Plaintiff filed this
action on February 8, 2024.  
            On September 12, 2024, Defendants
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff in this action for harassment,
retaliation, and wage violations. 
            On September 6, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion to stay or dismiss the aforementioned JAMS arbitration.
Plaintiff filed its opposition on September 30, 2024. Defendants filed their
reply on October 4, 2024.   
DISCUSSION 
I.
The Court Lacks Authority to Decide the Issue
There is no legal mechanism by which the
Court can stay or dismiss an arbitration independently initiated by the
parties. “[A]n arbitration has a life of its own outside the judicial system.” (Byerly
v. Sale (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1312, 1316.) “The trial court may not step
into a case submitted to arbitration and tell the arbitrator what to do and
when to do it: it may not resolve procedural questions, order discovery,
determine the status of claims before the arbitrator or set the case for trial
because of a party's alleged dilatory conduct. It is for the arbitrator, and
not the court, to resolve such questions.” (Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 489.) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2 does not provide any authority to stay or dismiss an
ongoing arbitration. That section only governs what a court may do upon hearing
a motion to compel arbitration. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 [“On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses
to arbitrate that controversy . . .”].) There has been no such motion in this
case. Section 1281.2 does not allow the Court to interfere in an arbitration
initiated before the lawsuit was filed.     
Even if the Court had ordered arbitration
pursuant to a motion to compel, it would thereafter retain only “vestigial
jurisdiction” to appoint arbitrators, grant a provisional remedy, and confirm,
correct, or vacate the arbitration award. (Lew-Williams v. Petrosian
(2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 97, 105.) Thus, there is no authority for the Court to
stay or dismiss the arbitration currently pending before JAMS. 
II.
The EFAA Does Not Apply
The EFAA provides that “no predispute
arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or
enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or
State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment
dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402.) 
This does not authorize staying or
dismissing an existing arbitration independently initiated by the parties
before any allegations of sexual harassment were involved. The EFAA invalidates
certain arbitration agreements; it does not retroactively render claims
non-arbitrable when they have already been submitted to arbitration. Otherwise,
any party could unilaterally remove arbitrable claims from arbitration by
simply asserting counterclaims for sexual harassment. Plaintiff cites no
authority suggesting that the EFAA permits such a result. Thus, Defendants’
subsequent allegations of sexual harassment do not justify staying or
dismissing the pending arbitration.  
III.
Waiver Does Not Justify Interference with Arbitration
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
waived its right to compel arbitration. Again, no motion to compel arbitration
has been put at issue. There is no authority in the waiver jurisprudence cited
by Defendants suggesting that a trial court may interfere in an existing
arbitration. The cases deal with compelling arbitration; none discuss, much
less authorize, withdrawing claims from pending arbitration. 
 
IV.
A Stay of This Action is Warranted
            “[T]he trial court may exercise its
discretion to stay . . . claims pending the outcome of the arbitration.” (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.) “Because the
issues subject to litigation . . . might overlap those that are subject to
arbitration . . ., the trial court must order an appropriate stay of trial
court proceedings.” (Franco v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 947, 966.) “The stay's purpose is to preserve the status quo until
the arbitration is resolved, preventing any continuing trial court
proceedings from disrupting and rendering ineffective the arbitrator's
jurisdiction to decide the issues that are subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.)     
Defendants request a stay of this action
as an alternative. Given the overlapping nature of the claims in arbitration, a
stay is warranted to prevent duplicity and inconsistent findings. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to stay or
dismiss arbitration is DENIED. However, this action is stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration. 