 Case Number:  24STCP02156    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
VICKIE METCALFE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HOME PRO REMODELING & CONSTRUCTION
  INC., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCP02156
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to set aside sister state
  judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff Vickie
Metcalfe initiated this action by filing an application for entry of judgment
on sister-state judgment against Defendant Home Pro Remodeling &
Construction Inc. The underlying judgment is a default judgment entered in
Oregon state court. 
            On September 18, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to vacate the sister state judgment. Plaintiff filed
her opposition on September 30, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on October 3,
2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            A sister state judgment “may be
vacated on any ground which would be a defense to an action in this state on
the sister state judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1710.40(a).) “Common defenses
to enforcement of a sister state judgment include the following: the judgment
is not final and unconditional (where finality means that no further action by
the court rendering the judgment is necessary to resolve the matter litigated);
the judgment was obtained by extrinsic fraud; the judgment was rendered in
excess of jurisdiction; the judgment is not enforceable in the state of
rendition; the plaintiff is guilty of misconduct; the judgment has already been
paid; suit on the judgment is barred by the statute of limitations in the state
where enforcement is sought.” (Casey v. Hill (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 937,
976.) 
            “The party moving under section
1710.40 to set aside the sister state judgment has ‘the burden to show by a
preponderance of the evidence why it was entitled to relief.’” (Conseco
Marketing, LLC v. IFA & Ins. Services, Inc. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 831,
841.) “For example, if the movant proves service of process in the sister state
action was not made or was defective, this burden has been met. Under these
circumstances, the sister state judgment is void for lack of fundamental
jurisdiction and therefore unenforceable in California.” (Ibid.) 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is granted. (See Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is granted. (See Evid. Code, § 452(c); Belen v. Ryan Seacrest
Productions, LLC (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1160, fn. 2.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant argues that the sister
judgment in Oregon is defective because the Oregon court lacked jurisdiction
over Defendant. 
a. Minimum Contacts
First, Defendant argues that it had no
minimum contacts with Oregon. (See M.C. v. Quest Glob., Inc. (2023) 328
Ore. App. 378, 382-85.) Defendant avers that it is a California company with
its principal place of business in California. (Dayan Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant
avers that it has never conducted business in Oregon and has no relation to
Plaintiff or the Oregon co-defendants in the underlying action. (Id., ¶¶
4-6.)
However, Oregon state records show that
Yaacov Dayan, Defendant’s CEO, is also the president of co-defendant
IRemodeling. (Plntf.’s RJN, Ex. 3, 4.) Thus, the companies do share common
management, contrary to Mr. Dayan’s declaration. Furthermore, after being
solicited, Plaintiff signed a contract in Oregon with IRemodeling. (Def.’s RJN,
Ex. A; Metcalfe Decl. ¶ 5.) The solicitor handed Plaintiff a folder with the
website address www.homepro-remodeling.com
and an office address in Portland, Oregon. (Ibid.)
The Court finds that Mr. Dayan’s
declaration is not credible based on his misrepresentations about the
relationship between Defendant and IRemodeling. That, combined with Plaintiff’s
evidence, demonstrates that Defendant had minimum contacts with Oregon
sufficient for personal jurisdiction. At the very least, Defendant has not
satisfied its burden of proving a lack of minimum contacts. (See Conseco,
supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at p. 841 [moving party bears the burden of proof on
a motion to vacate].)   
b. Service of Summons
Second, Defendant argues that service of
process was improper in the underlying action. Specifically, Defendant cites
ORCP 7(D)(2)(c), which requires leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
with a person apparently in charge at the defendant’s office, and then
first-class mailing the summons and complaint to the defendant. Defendant
argues that service was improper because the summons and complaint were left
with Defendant’s clerk but not subsequently mailed. (See Def.’s RJN, Ex. B;
Dayan Decl. ¶ 10.) 
However, ORCP 7(D)(2)(c) only applies “[i]f
the person to be served maintains an office for the conduct of business.” Here,
Defendant is a corporation, not a person with an office. Service on
corporations is governed by ORCP 7(D)(3)(b). The primary service method for a
corporation is “[b]y personal service or office service on a registered agent,
officer, or director of the corporation; or by personal service on any clerk on
duty in the office of a registered agent.” (ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(i).) No subsequent
mailing is required.
The proof of service here indicates that
Defendant was served “by personal service upon Dikla Golask . . . who was the
clerk on duty at the office of Yaacov Dayan, who is the Registered Agent
thereof.” (Def.’s RJN, Ex. B.) Service was made at the address 6350 Laurel
Canyon Blvd., Los Angeles.[1] (Ibid.)
Defendant argues that under ORCP
7(D)(3)(b)(ii), personal service on its clerk in California was ineffective
because the clerk was not located in the county where the action was filed.
Defendant cites the prior version of ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(ii), which lists the
following alternative service methods: substitute service, “personal service on
any clerk or agent of the corporation who may be found in the county where the
action is filed,” or mail. The current version of ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(ii) lists the
alternatives as follows: substitute service, “personal service on any clerk or
agent of the corporation,” or mail. There is no requirement for the clerk or
agent to be located in the county where the action is filed.  
Even assuming the older version of ORCP 7
applied here, ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(ii) describes alternative methods of service, one
of which is to personally serve a “clerk or agent of the corporation”
who is located in the county where the action is filed. But ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(i)
still governs the primary method of service on a corporation, and it allows “personal
service on any clerk on duty in the office of a registered agent”
without reference to that clerk’s location. Ms. Golask was served as the clerk
on duty at the office of Yaacov Dayan, Defendant’s registered agent. (Def.’s
RJN, Ex. B.) Ms. Golask was served under the primary method described in ORCP
7(D)(3)(b)(i), not the alternative method described in ORCP 7(D)(3)(b)(ii). 
 Defendant
does not deny that Ms. Golask was the clerk on duty at the office of Yaacov
Dayan, that Dayan is Defendant’s registered agent, or that Ms. Golask was
personally served with the summons and complaint. Dayan only claims that Ms.
Golask did not inform him of the service. (Dayan Decl. ¶ 9.) However, that has
no bearing on proper service. Ultimately, the evidence shows that Defendant was
properly served under ORCP 7. Therefore, Defendant has not met its burden of
proving a lack of jurisdiction.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to set aside
sister state judgment is DENIED.


