 Case Number:  23SMCV02960    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer brought by defendant Sunrise.  A similar demurrer brought by defendant TH
Community is on calendar for June 5, 2024. 
The two demurrers are similar, and it could be that this ruling
effectively disposes of both.  
 
At issue is a lease. 
Plaintiff contends that when plaintiff moved in, the landlord promised
to make certain repairs to the premises. 
Those repairs allegedly were either not made at all, not made in a
timely fashion, or not made properly. 
Plaintiff also contends that other problems developed after plaintiff
moved in.  Among the problems alleged are
a rodent infestation, a lack of hot water, a non-functioning air conditioner,
problems with the gas, problems with the heat, blocked drains, and other
issues.  Plaintiff also alleges that
defendant told the Gas Company to keep the gas turned off.  Plaintiff also asserts that there is a mold
problem.  Plaintiff says that the
landlord was aware of these issues. 
According to plaintiff, the landlord’s motive is financial: to force
plaintiff out.  Plaintiff also states that
the landlord (defendant here) has tried unsuccessfully to evict.  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for breach
of contract, breach of the warrant of habitability, negligent maintenance,
nuisance, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Plaintiff does not attach the contract nor does plaintiff quote it
verbatim.  Defendant Sunrise demurs;
plaintiff opposes.
 
Defendant’s major theme is that plaintiff is a deadbeat who
moved into the premises in January 2020 and has not paid any rent since.  Defendant notes that a UD case is currently
pending, but the court notes that the matters have not been related and
therefore that case has no bearing on this one.
 
Turning to the particulars, defendant complains that the
breach of contract cause of action is uncertain because the lease is neither
attached nor quoted verbatim.  The court
disagrees with the uncertainty demurrer. 
A contract can be pled by asserting the contract’s terms in legal
effect, and the court believes that was done. 
It is clear that the lease is a written lease, or at least it is clear
enough to the court.  Defendant says the
lease was not attached in order to fuzz up the various parties, but the court
doubts it.  Defendant may rely on the
written lease even on demurrer and even if the lease is not attached to the
complaint so long as there is no reasonable debate as to the lease’s actual
written terms.  The demurrer to the first
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant also contends that the breach of the warranty of
habitability is not properly pled.  As to
Sunset, it contends that it is not a party to the lease, and thus it cannot be
held liable.  Maybe; but since no one has
presented the actual written lease to the court, the demurrer cannot be
sustained on that ground.  And even were
Sunset not a signatory to the lease, in its capacity as manager it could be
that there is enough to hold it liable. 
(The court notes that Sunset could have appended the lease to the
demurrer papers, but it chose not to do so.) 
Defendant goes further to say that the manner in which the unit is
uninhabitable is not specified adequately. 
The court disagrees.  A number of
items are specifically listed in paragraph 8 and the complaint further alleges
in paragraph 42 that the repairs were not made as promised.  Paragraph 43 alleges further problems.  It is enough to withstand a pleading
challenge and the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.  Paragraph 44 alleges that plaintiff
adequately notified defendant of the problems.
 
The third cause of action is for negligent maintenance of
the premises.  The court views this as a
flavor of negligence.  While it seems a
bit duplicative, the court sees no mischief in it.  For the same reasons that the second cause of
action survives, so does the third.  The
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The fourth cause of action is for nuisance.  The demurrer to this cause of action is that
it is duplicative of the third cause of action. 
But nuisance and negligent maintenance are two separate torts; they can
be pled in the same complaint.  The
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 
The fifth cause of action is for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  Plaintiff asserts
that the reasons that the problems were not fixed is because the landlord
wanted plaintiff to be evicted but starting in early 2020, could not do so
because of various COVID laws.  The court
thinks that the claim that the landlord was deliberately making the unit
uninhabitable during COVID in order to force plaintiff out is the sort of
outrageous conduct that, if proven, could satisfy the tort.  The complaint also alleges that the landlord
called the police to try and force plaintiff out of the unit by telling them
that plaintiff was a squatter rather than a tenant, asking the gas company to
clear the red tag on the neighbor’s property but not plaintiff’s unit even
though there was no difference between the two other than that plaintiff was
not paying rent, and instructing workmen not to fix the garage door for
plaintiff’s unit.  The demurrer to this
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The sixth cause of action is breach of the covenant of good
faith.  Plaintiff argues that defendant
was a fiduciary and breached that duty. 
The court has read the cause of action and does not believe that it goes
to a contractual breach, but rather that plaintiff is attempting to allege a
tort.  Breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing is not a tort.  It
sounds only in contract (other than in some cases involving insurers).  Nor is a landlord a fiduciary.  The relationship between a landlord and a
tenant is contractual, not fiduciary. 
The cause of action is not proper. 
The demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is granted only because this
is the original complaint and it is virtually a certain abuse of discretion to
deny it.  But the court doubts that
plaintiff will be able to cure this problem, at least if plaintiff continues to
view it as a tort.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN
PART.  As to attorneys’ fees, the court
assures the defense that fees will not be awarded absent a legal ground to do
so.  But it is not possible to tell at
this stage whether such an argument will be made, and the request does no
mischief.  As to striking the request for
punitive damages due to negligence, the court agrees with the defense and
paragraph 58 is STRICKEN WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  In all other respects, the motion is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff has 30 days’ leave to amend.  
 
For purposes of clarity, the court does not intend this
ruling to have any effect whatsoever on the UD action.