 Case Number:  22AHCV00428    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
25, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         DOLLY HWANG, an
individual, v. JUDY CHOU WANG, an individual, POD JOHN MICHAEL WANG, an
individual,  YAYA ADVISOR, LLC,
MILKIE/FERGUSON INVESTMENTS INC., and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00428
 
            
 
DEMURRER

 
MOVING PARTY:              Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Dolly Hwang  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
opposition filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 29, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff demurrers to
Cross-Complainant’s first amended cross-complaint. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Dolly
Hwang’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Judy Chou Wang  and her son Pod John Michael Wang (“John”)
convinced her to invest $200,000 pursuant to a promissory note but failed to
pay Plaintiff back under the agreement. 
 
            Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on August 3, 2022, alleging seven causes of action for (1)
breach of written contract, (2) fraud and intentional misrepresentations, (3)
civil conspiracy, (4) elder abuse for damages, (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, (6) promissory estoppel, and (7) unjust enrichment. 
 
            Cross-Complainant Judy Chou Wang
(“Cross-Complainant”) filed a first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) on  October 20, 2023.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
demurrer to the first amended cross-complaint is SUSTAINED.
 
            The
demurrer is tentatively sustained without leave to amend. At hearing
Cross-Complainant bears the burden of demonstrating that the defect can be
cured by amendment. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff demurrers to Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action for
abuse of process.
 
            “The tort of abuse
of process arises when one uses the court's process for a purpose other than
that for which the process was designed. ‘[T]he essence of
the tort [is] ... misuse of the power of the court; it is an act done in the
name of the court and under its authority for the purpose of perpetrating an
injustice.’ To succeed in an action for abuse of process, a litigant must
establish two elements: that the defendant (1) contemplated an ulterior motive
in using the process; and (2) committed a willful act in the use of the process
not proper in the regular conduct of the proceedings. In other words, abuse of
process requires an act outside the purpose of the process.” (Brown v.
Kennard (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 40, 44, footnotes omitted.) 
 
            Cross-Complainant’s
first amended cross-complaint is difficult to follow. However, it appears that Cross-Complainant
alleges that Plaintiff filed a meritless case (FACC at p. 14:20), improperly
served the summons and complaint (FACC at p. 15:13-17), and improperly added
other defendants (FACC at p. 16). 
 
            However, Cross-Complaint
does not allege any facts sufficient to allege an act that constitutes an
improper act outside the purpose of the process. Cross-Complainant merely
alleges legal conclusions that Plaintiff’s actions were done with ulterior
motives. However, even as alleged, Cross-Complainant fails to allege that
Plaintiff acted outside the purpose of the process in furthering this case. 
 
“Material facts alleged in the complaint are treated as true for
the purpose ruling on the demurrer. [Citation.] Also taken as true are facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. [Citation.]
However, contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint are not considered in judging its sufficiency.” (Kisesky v.
Carpenters’ Trust for So. California. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d, 228.) 
 
Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action
fails to state a claim for abuse of process. Plaintiff’s demurrer is sustained.

 
            Plaintiff
demurrers to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action, which appears to be
for recission. Civil Code section 1689 provides scenarios under which a
contract may be rescinded. 
 
Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action
seeks to void a promissory note. (FACC ¶ 79.) Cross-Complainant’s allegations
seem to imply that a promissory note was entered into by the parties. However,
Cross-Complainant does not allege the existence of a promissory note, attach
the note, or allege the legal effect of any contract. Cross-Complainant has
failed to allege the existence of a contract necessary to seek recission. Plaintiff’s
demurrer is sustained. 
 
Plaintiff demurrers to Cross-Complainant’s
third cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
            The
essential elements of a breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Green Valley
Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th. 425, 433.)
 
            Cross-Complainant’s
third cause of action alleges that Plaintiff breached a power of attorney
contract. However, Cross-Complainant does not allege how Plaintiff purportedly
breached the contract. Cross-Complainant alleges that Plaintiff engaged in some
wrongful, but it unclear what breach of contract Cross-Complainant alleges.
Cross-Complainant fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim for breach
of contract. Plaintiff’s demurrer is sustained.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
demurrer is tentatively sustained without leave to amend. At hearing Cross-Complainant
bears the burden of demonstrating that the defect can be cured by amendment. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 25,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
