 Case Number:  21STCV41460    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
25, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE: March 19, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         FLORENCE M.
SANCHEZ, an individual, v. THE NORTHEAST COMMUNITY CLINIC, a California
corporation, EMMA BLANDINA TREJO, M.D., an individual, SANDRA CHU DAMIANI,
M.D., an individual; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV41460
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants The Northeast Community
Clinic, Emma Blandina Trejo, M.D., and Sandra Chu Damiani, M.D. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Florence M. Sanchez
 
SERVICE:                              Filed September 19, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 11, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 19, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Florence M.
Sanchez’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Emma Blandina Trejo, M.D. (“Dr.
Trejo”), Sanda Chu Damiani (“Dr. Damiani”), M.D., and the Northeast Community
Clinic (“the Clinic” or “Defendant”) failed to properly evaluate and treat
Plaintiff, resulting in her kidney failure going undetected. 
 
            Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on November 7, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1)
medical negligence, (2) negligent misrepresentation, and (3) risks of
nontreatment. 
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party
may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contented
that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section
473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move for summary judgment. Previously, this court sustained
The Northeast Community Clinic and Dr. Blandina’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
second and third causes of action. On May 19, 2023, the parties stipulated to
strike Plaintiff’s second and third causes of action as to Dr. Sandra Chu
Damiani. Thus, the only remaining claim is Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for medical negligence.  
            
To bring a medical malpractice
action, Plaintiff must establish: “ ‘(1) the duty of the professional to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.’ ” (Borrayo
v. Avery, (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 304, 310.) 
 
“California courts have
incorporated the expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary
judgment in medical malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell
within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment
unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro
v. Regents of University of California, (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-85.)
 
In her complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to properly treat her or advise her regarding her kidney
health between 2019 and 2021. (FAC ¶¶ 22-27.) Plaintiff alleges that in 2019, Dr. Trejo failed to
perform tests or refer her to specialists related to her kidney health. (Id.
¶ 22.) She alleges that around August of 2020, she was informed that she
was suffering from kidney failure that Defendants failed to check for. (Id. ¶
25.) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff is
unable to demonstrate that they breached the standard of care. Defendants
submit the declaration of Eduardo Añorga, M.D. (“Dr. Añorga”) to meet
their initial burden. Dr. Añorga is physician licensed to practice in
California and board certified by the American Board of Family Practice.
(Añorga Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.) He provides he is
familiar with the applicable standard of care related to family practice and
primary care services. (Id. ¶ 3.)
 
Dr. Añorga provides a summary of Plaintiff’s visits
to the Northeast Community Clinic starting from August 16, 2016. (Añorga  Decl. ¶¶ 5a-5n.) Dr. Añorga notes that Plaintiff had
asthma, type II diabetes, and was obese. (Id. ¶¶ 5b-5d.) The Northeast Clinic’s physicians ran various tests,
prescribed medication, and provided information for lifestyle changes. (Id. ¶¶
5e-5g.) Dr. Añorga notes that Plaintiff missed a few appointments between 2017 and 2019. (Id.
¶¶ 5i, 5n, 5t.)
 
On August 11, 2019, Plaintiff presented to the emergency
department at Torrence Memorial. (Añorga Decl. ¶ 5o.) Plaintiff returned to the Northeast
Community Clinic on September 6, 2019, and September 18, 2019. (Id. ¶¶
5q and 5s.) During her visits, referrals were ordered for specialists,
including for a kidney specialist, or nephrologist. (Id. ¶ 5q.) September
19, 2019, was Plaintiff’s last visit with the Northeast Community Clinic. (Id.
¶ t.)
 
Dr. Añorga opines that Defendants complied with the
standard of care at all times. (Añorga Decl. ¶ 6.) He opines that Defendants acted properly because there was
no reason to necessitate a referral to a nephrologist prior to September of
2019, and because Defendants properly specialists that Plaintiff saw outside of
the Northeast Community Clinic for the management of Plaintiff’s diabetes and hypertension.
(Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) Further, Dr. Añorga opines that Defendants properly ordered labs
for Plaintiff and managed her medicine. (Id. ¶¶ 9-10.) He also opines
that Defendant and Dr. Trejo did in fact refer Plaintiff to a nephrologist,
which complied with the standard of care. (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Further, as to causation, Dr. Añorga provides that
to a reasonable degree of medical probability, there was no act or omission
from Defendants that contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. (Añorga Decl. ¶ 15.) He opines that an earlier
referral would not have changed the outcome because Plaintiff was obese and
largely non complaint. (Ibid.) He opines that Plaintiff’s kidney
problems were a natural progression of her chronic diabetes and hypertension. (Ibid.)
He provides that Plaintiff opted not to follow the healthcare plan provided by
Defendants, and after she saw a nephrologist in August of 2020, she continued
the same general treatment recommended by Defendants. (Ibid.)
 
“In a medical malpractice action the
element of causation is satisfied when a plaintiff produces sufficient evidence
‘to allow the jury to infer that in the absence of the defendant's
negligence, there was a reasonable medical probability the
plaintiff would have obtained a better result.’” (Espinosa V. Little Co. of
Mary Hospital (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1304, 1314-15.) “[C]ausation must be
proven within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert
testimony.” (Dumas v. Cooney, (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603.) 
 
Defendants have met their initial of showing that Plaintiff is
unable to demonstrate that they breached the standard of care in their
treatment of Plaintiff. Defendants have also met their initial burden as to
causation. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff relies on the declaration of Dr. Terrance
L. Baker, a physician licensed to practice in Maryland. Dr. Baker opines that
Defendants breached the standard of care by failing to timely refer Plaintiff
to an endocrinologist, failing to refer Plaintiff to a nephrologist after
abnormal 2018 test results, and failing to modify her treatment plan. (Baker
Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
“In order to testify as an expert in
a medical malpractice case, a person must have enough knowledge, learning and
skill with the relevant subject to speak with authority, and he or she must be
familiar with the standard of care to which the defendant was held.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“In those cases where a medical specialist is alleged to have acted
negligently, the ‘specialist must possess and use the learning, care and skill
normally possessed and exercised by practitioners of that specialty under the
same or similar circumstances.’ ” (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)  
 
As a preliminary note, Dr. Baker
does not state that he is familiar with the standard of care applicable to
Defendants in the present case. Further, Dr. Baker does not explain how he
reached his opinion that Defendants breached the standard of care. He does not
explain what the abnormal test results consisted of or why Defendants breached
by failing to take certain steps. Plaintiff has failed to raise a
triable issue of fact as to whether Defendants breached the standard of care.
 
As to causation, Dr. Baker opines
that Plaintiff was a “responsible patient” and that Defendants showed a lack of
interest in their care of Plaintiff. (Baker Decl. ¶ 7.) He also opines that Defendants breach of the standard of
care, to a reasonable degree of medical certainty, “were a result” of
Plaintiff’s renal failure and required kidney transplant. (Id. ¶ 10.)
Even assuming Dr. Baker intended to state causation in the opposite direction
and opine that Plaintiff’s harms were a result of Defendant’s breach of the
standard of care, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to
causation. 
 
“An expert's opinion . . . ‘may not
be based on assumptions of fact that are without evidentiary support or based
on factors that are speculative or conjectural, for then the opinion has no
evidentiary value and does not assist the trier of fact. [Citation.] Moreover,
an expert's opinion rendered without a reasoned explanation of why the
underlying facts lead to the ultimate conclusion has no evidentiary value
because an expert opinion is worth no more than the reasons and facts on which
it is based.’ ” (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 123.) 
 
            Dr.
Baker merely provides speculative conclusions with no reasoned explanation that
Defendants caused Plaintiff’s injuries. He fails to provide the underlying
facts he used to reach his conclusion and the explanation of how he reached his
conclusion. Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to
causation. 
 
            The court
is also inclined to sustain Defendant’s evidentiary objection No. 9.  As the Plaintiff has not had any opportunity
to address this objection in their moving papers, they may address it at the hearing.  Granting this objection would also be dispositive
of the motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 25,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
