  Case Number:  21GDCV00949    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
25, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PASADENA POST NO. 13, DEPARTMENT OF
CALIFORNIA, THE AMERICAN LEGION, a California non-profit corporation, v. THE
LEGION CORPORATION OF PASADENA, a California non-profit corporation; MICHAEL
SEATON, an individual, LYNN GARCIA, an individual; JOHN MCGUIRE, an individual;
TONY MARTINEZ, an individual; GEORGE CURTIS, an individual; EUGENE SACCO, an
individual; THE SACCO GROUP, LLC, a California limited liability corporation;
THE SACCO GROUP, LLC, dba SURETY SOLUTIONS, TOO TIRED TO COOK, LEGION CLUB OF
PASADENA, and MICRO PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMPANY; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV00949
 
            
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
The Legion Corporation of Pasadena, Michael Seaton, Lynne Garcia, John McGuire,
Tony Martinez, George Curtis, and Eugene Sacco; The Sacco Group LLC (“Demurring
Parties”);
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff Pasadena Post No. 13,
Department of California, The American Legion
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 5, 2023; Joinder filed on
October 11, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 12, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 18, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Demurring Parties object to
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
             
             This case arises out of Pasadena Post No. 13, Department of California,
the American Legion’s (“Plaintiff” or “Pasadena Post 13”) claims it is the
proper corporate identity for the originally incorporated Pasadena Post 13
corporation and thus the proper owner of properties in dispute.
 
            Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”) on
September 11, 2023, against Defendants the Legion Corp, Michael Seaton
(“Seaton”), Lynne Garcia (“Garcia”), John McGuire (“McGuire”), Tony Martinez
(“Martinez”), George Curtis (“Curtis”) Eugene Sacco (“Sacco”), the Sacco Group,
LLC (“Sacco Group”), and the Sacco Group, LLC dba Surety Solutions, Too Tired
to Cook, Legion Club of Pasadena, and Micro Project Management Company (“Sacco
Group”) alleging five causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach
of fiduciary duty, (3) constructive fraud, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5)
conversion. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
            
            Demurring
Parties’ demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.
 
            Demurring
Parties’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s fees is GRANTED.
 
            Demurring
Parties’ motion to strike is DENIED in all other regards.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Overview 
 
            Demurring
Parties object to Plaintiff’s SAC. On March 22, 2022, this court ruled on
Demurring Parties’ previous demurrer. The demurrers were sustained only as to
The Sacco Group, LLC’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second and third causes of
action. The demurrers were overruled in all other regards. 
 
            “[A]
defendant cannot demur on the same grounds to a previous demurrer that was
overruled[.]” (County of El Dorado v. Superior Court (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 620, 625.) 
 
            Demurring
Parties argue that Plaintiff’s SAC is deficient because Plaintiff lacks
standing, and its claims are time barred. However, these issues were raised and
overruled in the previous demurrers. Thus, Demurring Parties’ arguments here
are similarly rejected. 
 
            First
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
            Demurring
Parties object to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for declaratory relief. “ ‘To qualify for
declaratory relief, [a party] would have to demonstrate its action presented
two essential elements: “(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and
(2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to [the
party's] rights or obligations.” ’ ” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)
 
            Plaintiff alleges an actual
controversy exists between the parties as to whether Defendants’ actions are
inconsistent with the purpose of the incorporation of Pasadena Post 13 and its
articles of incorporation and whether Plaintiff is the rightful owner of
certain property . (SAC ¶ 90-95.) Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to state a claim
for declaratory relief. Demurring Parties’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause
of action is overruled.
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            Demurring
Parties object to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty. 
 
The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2)
the breach of that duty; (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” (IIG
Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 646.) “[A] fiduciary
relationship is ‘ “any relation existing between parties to a transaction
wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith
for the benefit of the other party.” ’ " (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants owed it a duty as the board of directors of The Legion
Corp. (SAC ¶¶ 97-99.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
breached that duty by disenfranchising the voting members and claiming that
Pasadena Post 13 had no members. (Id. ¶ 100-102.) Plaintiff alleges
causation and damages. (Id. ¶¶ 112-114.) Plaintiff has alleged facts
sufficient to state a claim for breach of fiduciary duty. Demurring Parties’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is overruled.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Constructive Fraud
 
            Demurring
Parties object to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for constructive fraud. 
 
“ ‘Constructive fraud “arises on a
breach of duty by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another
which induces justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.” [Citation.]
Actual reliance and causation of injury must be shown. [Citation.]’ ” (Prakashpalan
v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131.)
“Constructive fraud exists in cases in which conduct, although not actually
fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in which such conduct is a
constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual consequences and all the
legal effects of actual fraud.” (Ibid.) Constructive fraud, as defined
by statute, arises “[i]n any breach of duty which, without an actually
fraudulent intent, gains an advantage to the person in fault, or any one
claiming under him, by misleading another to his prejudice, or to the prejudice
of any one claiming under him”. (Civ. Code section 1573, subd. (1).)
 
Demurring Parties argue that Plaintiff failed
to allege her claim for constructive fraud with adequate specificity.
“Constructive fraud, like actual fraud, must be pleaded with specificity.” (Knox
v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 434.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
owed it a fiduciary duty. (SAC ¶ 117.) Plaintiff alleges that the Legion Corp.
breached its duty by failing to give statutory notice when it terminated its
members. (Id.  ¶ 118.) Plaintiff
alleges that the board of directors of the Legion Corp. changed the corporate structure
to lose its 501(c)(3) status. (Id. ¶ 119.) Plaintiff alleges that the
Sacco Group, LLC failed to provide accurate information to Plaintiff, accepted
donations payable to Pasadena Post 13, and redirected donations. (Id. ¶¶
121-123.) Plaintiff also alleges causation and damages. (Id. ¶¶
124-125.)
 
 
Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to
state a claim for constructive fraud. Demurring Parties’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for constructive fraud is overruled.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
 
Demurring Parties demurrer to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment. Demurring Parties argue that
unjust enrichment is not a separate cause of action. 
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are ‘receipt of a benefit
and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’ ” (Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants obtained and retained funds owed to Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶ 131.) Further, some courts have recognized
that unjust enrichment is not a separate cause of action in California. (See Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.) However, California
appellate courts have also directed trial courts to issue an order overruling
demurrers to causes of action for unjust enrichments. (See Professional Tax
Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 242.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged a cause of action for unjust
enrichment. Demurring Parties’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
is overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Conversion
 
            Demurring Parties object to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of
action for conversion.
 
“The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Welco Electronics , Inc.
v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208.) “Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless
there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts
a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (PCO,
Inc. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that it has a right to
ownership of funds and real property controlled by Defendant. (SAC ¶ 134-135.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s possession. (Id.
¶ 136.) Plaintiff also alleges damages. (Id. ¶ 138.) In support of
their demurrer, Demurring Parties argue that Plaintiff did not have a right to
possess the properties at issue. Demurring Parties’ argument is more akin to
factual arguments, which are not applicable at the pleading stage. “Material facts alleged in the complaint are treated as true for
the purpose ruling on the demurrer. [Citation.] Also taken as true are facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. [Citation.]” (Kisesky
v. Carpenters’ Trust for So. California. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d, 228.)
Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to state a claim for conversion.
Demurring Parties’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is overruled.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Demurring Parties move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages, attorney’s fees, and restitution.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages my not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) 
 
            “ ‘A party
may not recover attorney fees unless expressly authorized by statute or
contract.’ ” (Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464.) 
 
            Because
Plaintiff’s claim for constructive fraud survives, Plaintiff has alleged
conduct, i.e. fraudulent conduct, that supports a claim for punitive damages.
Similarly, Plaintiff claim for unjust enrichment survives, which means
Plaintiff is entitled to raise a claim for restitution. Lastly, Plaintiff
concedes the issue of attorney’s fees and withdraws its claim for attorney’s
fees. (Opposition at p. 12:2-3.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Demurring
Parties’ demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.
 
            Demurring
Parties’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s fees is GRANTED.
 
            Demurring
Parties’ motion to strike is DENIED in all other regards.
 
            Moving
Parties to provide notice. 
 
            
Dated:   January 25,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
