  Case Number:  24TRCV01108    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 17, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01108
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rosario
Marcela Rivera Santos v. General Motors LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff,
Rosario Marcela Rivera Santos 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 

¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel GM’s
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
GM’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (3) Motion to Compel
GM’s Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) –(3) – CONTINUED.  The Court will take action reasonably required
to ensure that the meet-and-confer IN GOOD FAITH requirement of the Discovery
Act is not ignored by both sides. It is not in good faith to give the responding
party a single day deadline to respond to a lengthy meet-and-confer letter.  It is not in good faith for a responding to
allow a month to pass after a meet-and-confer letter with no substantive response
to the issues raised.   If the parties and their counsel intend to continue
to congest the Court with discovery motions and objections to the meet and
confer process, the Court can impose a case management order that mandates
certain things both sides might find problematic.  But before the Court goes there, it will
instead continue the hearing so Plaintiffs do not lose their 45-day clock --
and will order the parties to meet telephonically or in person and confer either
in the second half or September or the whole month of October -- with a view
towards narrowing the issues and discovery requests the Court must decide before
a November return date.  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff, Rosario Marcela Rivera
Santos (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”)
and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and
(3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2.
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff
propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Requests for Admission, Set One. 
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff notes that Defendant GM
responded asserting allegedly boilerplate objections that are not
code-compliant. Plaintiff also notes that Defendant GM did not provide
verifications in support of its responses until June 12, 2024. To date,
Plaintiff contends that GM has not provided further responses to this discovery
that could assist in Plaintiff’s allegation that GM willfully violated its
obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
            On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Motions to Compel
Further Responses. On August 30, 2024, Defendant GM filed opposition briefs. On
September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed reply briefs. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests,
the party requesting may move for an order compelling further responses for
interrogatories (Code Civ. Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Code. Civ.
Proc. section 2033.290), and request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section
2031.310). “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service
of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any
specific later date to which the requesting party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right to compel further
response to the requests for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290,
subd. (c).) 
B.    Discussion 
 
                                    
i.         
Meet and
Confer Efforts 
 
            In the
declaration of Gregory Sogoyan, Esq.’s (“Sogoyan Decl.”), counsel for
Plaintiff, he notes that on July 25, 2024, he sent Defense counsel a letter
attempting to meet and confer “in good faith” regarding Defendant’s deficient
responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Admission, Set One. (Sogoyan Decl.,
¶ 19, Exhibit 7.) Sogoyan contends that the letter detailed GM’s deficient and
boilerplate responses to Plaintiff’s interrogatories and honed in on
Defendant’s responses laden with allegedly unsubstantiated boilerplate
objections. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶ 19.) Further, Sogoyan notes that he detailed the
various deficiencies that existed in GM’s discovery responses to Plaintiff’s
justifiably relevant and discovery information sought to forward its claims
that Defendant willfully violated the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and
requested responses BY JULY 26, 2024, i.e. one day later, and offered a
responsive extension deadline in efforts to further meet and confer. Despite
this, the Sogoyan notes that as of the date of filing Plaintiff’s motions,
Defendant remains unresponsive despite Plaintiff’s July 25, 2025 meet and
confer letter. 
 
In GM’s opposition brief, it argues that Plaintiff
failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to bringing this motion. GM
contends that Plaintiff’s letter, rather than narrow the scope of the discovery
requests at issue, took the position that each request was appropriate and
necessary, and demanded that GM withdraw its objections and supplement its
previous production.  
 
Here, neither party met and conferred in good faith.
Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter was sent on July 25, 2024, the
letter required responses only one day later, on July 26, 2024, and
subsequently filed the Motions to Compel Further four days after the letter on
July 29, 2024. The Court wonders how Plaintiff’s counsel believed GM’s counsel
would be able to provide further written responses to 109 discovery
interrogatories and/or requests. The Court also wonders how this could be
perceived as being in good faith.  As of
a month later, on August 30, 2024 when GM filed its Opposition to the instant
motions, GM has apparently not spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel, had not prepared
substantive or amended responses, or taken other steps to moot or resolve the discovery
dispute.
 
Because
of the present meet and confer issue between the parties, instead of ruling on
the motions in today’s hearing, the Court CONTINUES this motion to a date
available on the Court’s calendar in November of 2024.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer about
the discovery requests in dispute, and ordered each to provide a status report
with when and how they met and conferred including a description by discovery
set and request number of the remaining interrogatories and requests at issue. 