 Case Number:  23CMCV00066    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00066
 Makila Moorer v. City of Compton, et al.
Tuesday,
 August 6, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT, CITY OF COMPTON’S, PERSON MOST
 QUALIFIED; REQUEST FOR IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT, CITY OF COMPTON’S,
EMPLOYEE, DAMION TIMMONS; REQUEST FOR IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       The complaint
alleges that Plaintiff fell into a “sidewalk/utility access hole” allegedly,
owned and maintained by Defendants which Plaintiff asserts was in a defective condition.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 3-5.) The complaint asserts a cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property. (Gov Code § 835.) Defendant, Pacific Bell
Telephone Company dba AT&T (“Pacific Bell”) who answered the complaint on August
2, 2024, also filed a cross-complaint on the same date for indemnity and
contribution against Defendant, City of Compton (“City”). 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff
served notice on the City for the deposition of a city employee, Damion
Timmons, who provided a declaration on behalf of the City, asserting that the
City did not have control over the utility box. Plaintiff also served a notice
of deposition of City’s person most qualified (“PMQ”), ostensibly to determine
whether the City had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
and to marshal facts to determine whether the City was negligent in the
maintenance, operation, control, or supervision of the utility box at issue. 
       Plaintiff
filed separate motions to compel the depositions of both witnesses but after
lengthy efforts to schedule a date, the City ultimately refused to produce an
appropriate PMQ or Mr. Timmons for deposition on May 23, 2024. Instead, the
City filed a motion for sanctions under Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7 requesting the
City’s dismissal, contending it did not own, control, or maintain the utility
box at issue based on the Timmons declaration. On July 15, 2024, the court denied
the motion. 
       Following
the City’s failure to appear at the deposition and produce both witnesses, Plaintiff
attempted to meet and confer again on June 5, 2024. The City did not respond. 
       The
City did not file an opposition to either of Plaintiff’s motions by July 24,
2024, nine court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).)
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Service
of a deposition notice is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action “or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280 subd.(b).) 
       If a party or party-affiliated witness fails
to appear for a deposition after service of a deposition notice, without having
served a valid objection, the party giving notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document or tangible thing described in the notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.) The moving party must show good
cause for the deposition and an attempt to meet and confer following the
nonappearance. (Id.) 
       Plaintiff
served a notice for Mr. Timmons’ and for the PMQ witness’s deposition on May 8,
2024, scheduled for May 23, 2024. (Habbas decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 11.) Defendant did
not produce a witness and failed to respond to Plaintiff’s effort to meet and
confer following the City’s nonappearance. (Habbas decl., ¶ 19, Ex. 18.)
        As the City did not oppose both motions, there
is no substantial justification for the City’s objection and failure to produce
the witnesses. Plaintiff has shown good cause for both depositions given the
City’s assertion that it did not have control over the utility box and given
facts that Plaintiff must prove in order to prevail on her claim. Imposition of
sanctions are warranted. The court finds that $400 per hour incurred by
Plaintiff’s counsel is reasonable.
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Plaintiff’s two motions to compel the deposition of Mr. Timmons and the City’s
person most qualified. Defendant City is ordered to produce a witness or
witnesses responsive to both deposition notices within 14 days of the court’s
order as requested by Plaintiff. The court imposes sanctions of $1,320 for both
motions against Defendant, City of Compton, and its counsel, Dominique N.
Westmoreland, jointly and severally, payable to Plaintiff within 14 days. The
hours spent are reduced as Defendant did not oppose, and Plaintiff did not file
a reply brief. 



Prepare two motions


$200 x 4 hours


$800.00




Appearance


$200 x 2 hours


400.00




Filing fees


$60 x 2 motions


120.00




Total for both motions


 


$1,320.00



 
 