 Case Number:  23CMCV01645    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01645
 Jane Doe E.W. v. Lynwood Unified School District, Fred Tah
Tuesday, August
 6, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT, LYNWOOD UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’S,
FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff, now 31 years old, was approximately 17 years
old and attending Vista High School when she was subjected to sexual abuse
perpetrated by Defendant, Fred Tah (“Tah”), a teacher employed by Defendant,
Lynwood Unified School District (“District”). Plaintiff alleges claims for
childhood sexual abuse, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (3)
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, (4) failure to report suspected
child abuse, (5) negligent supervision of a minor, (6) and negligence.
      On
February 15, 2024, the District filed a cross-complaint against Defendant Tah
for indemnity and contribution.
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to request for production of documents, No. 43,
and  No. 44. Plaintiff requests an
employee roster or similar writings identifying administrators, teachers,
coaches, employees, and or/staff assigned to the school during the relevant
time period, including documents identifying superintendents. Plaintiff argues
that witness information is discoverable. The District refuses to respond on
grounds of privacy. The parties are unable to resolve their differences.
      In
opposition, the District argues that the requests are overbroad as they seek
identification of virtually ever District employee that worked at the school
site the year of Plaintiff’s alleged sexual harassment, including custodians
and cafeteria workers all the way up to District Superintendents. The District
has responded to form interrogatories and identified all District employees
with relevant knowledge. The District is willing to respond to a narrower
inquiry. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff argues that the District does have responsive documents but
refuses to disclose them. The District does not cite any authority that permits
unilateral narrowing of a document request. 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      A
motion to compel further responses to a document request is proper where the
requesting party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive
and/or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
      The
District’s objections to the requests are well taken. While Plaintiff argues
that the documents are necessary to identify potential witnesses, the document
request is not limited to employees with knowledge of the incident. As framed,
the document request is overbroad. Plaintiff has not shown why every person
employed by the District during the relevant time period should be identified,
regardless of whether the employee has relevant knowledge.
      A
document request must specifically describe each item to be produced “or by
reasonably particularizing each category of item.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.030, subd. (c)(1).) A responding party is
permitted to object to the requests. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.240 subd. (b)(2).)
IV.  
CONCLUSIONS
      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to requests 43
and 44 is DENIED. 
 
       
 