 Case Number:  24CMCV00550    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  A 
24CMCV00550
 Amber Hendree v. Santander Consumer USA dba Chrysler Capital & Lithia
 Motors, Inc. etc.
Tuesday,
 August 6, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER TAKING
 DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT OFF CALENDAR
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR
CHANGE OF VENUE
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       This action
arises from Plaintiff’s purchase of a vehicle and Defendant’s alleged
violations of the financing terms and for engaging in unlawful debt collection
practices. Defendant, Costa Mesa-CJD, Inc. dba Orange Coast Chrysler Dodge Jeep
Ram Fiat, filed its demurrer to the complaint on July 3, 2024. Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint on July 12, 2024, rendering the demurrer moot.
Accordingly, the demurrer is taken off calendar. 
       The first
amended complaint alleges claims arising from the same facts; namely, Defendant’s
alleged misrepresentation of the finance contract terms, fraudulent debt
collection practices, and wrongful repossession. Plaintiff alleges 29 causes of
action for statutory violations and other common law claims arising from these
facts.         
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff
now moves to change venue of this action to United States District Court for
the Central District given the alleged violations of federal statutes.  
       Defendant,
Santander Consumer USA, Inc. dba Chrysler Capital argues that the court has no authority
to transfer venue to a federal court. Only a defendant has the right of removal
to a federal court. Plaintiff could have brought this matter to federal court
by filing her complaint in that court. 
       The
court’s file does not reflect that Plaintiff filed a reply brief by July 30,
2024, five court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).        
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Plaintiff
does not cite any authority that gives a state trial court the power to “change
venue” of its own matters to federal court. The term “venue” indicates the
particular county (or counties) within the state where a case is to be heard. (K.R.L.
Partnership v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 496.) The
procedure for transferring a state court matter to a district court of the
United States is by removal, a right afforded to defendants. (28
U.S.C.A. § 1441 (West).) 
       The
state’s jurisdiction is limited to its own territory. (Global
Packaging, Inc. v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1623, 1630 ["Any
attempt to exercise authority beyond these limits would be deemed in every
other forum ... an illegitimate assumption of power, and be resisted as mere
abuse.”].) 
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
       As this court has no authority to
transfer this matter to a federal court, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. The
demurrer of Costa Mesa-CJD, Inc. dba Orange Coast Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Fiat
is TAKEN OFF CALENDAR. 
       
 