

Hearing
Date:              February 2, 2024
Case
Name:                 Villanueva v. Robbins
Brothers Jewelry, Inc. 
Case
No.:                    21STCV07074
Matter:                        Motion to File Documents
under Seal 
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Robbins Brothers Jewelry, Inc. and Mark Pimental

Responding
Party:      None

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to File Under Seal
is denied.

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiffs Thomas Villanueva (Villanueva) and Hernando Quintero’s
(Quintero) (jointly, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint, alleging FEHA claims for (1) discrimination
based on religion, (2) harassment based on religion, (3) retaliation for
complaints of religious discrimination and/or harassment, (4) retaliation for
reporting violations of law (Labor Code § 1102.5 and 1102.6), and (5) wrongful
termination against their employers, Defendants Robbins Brothers Jewelry, Inc. and
Mark Pimental (Defendants).
 
On April 7, 2023,
Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. On December 28, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a redacted opposition to the motion for summary judgment and a notice of
an intent not to file a motion to seal this record. Then, on January 5, 2024,
Defendants filed a redacted reply. 
 
            On
January 8, 2024, Defendants filed a motion
for a court order permitting these documents to be filed under seal. No
opposition was filed. 
 
            The motion to file
under seal is denied. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“A party requesting that a record be
filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the
record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (California
Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The court must make express findings
to support sealing under California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550. Specifically,
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550, subdivision (d), provides:
 
“The court may order that a record
be filed under seal only if it expressly finds that: 
(1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”  
 
            The party seeking to
seal a document bears the burden of proof. (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894.) Specifically, “[a] party requesting that a
record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (CRC, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants move
for a court order allowing Plaintiffs’ opposition to the motion for summary judgment
and Defendants’ reply to be filed unredacted under seal. Defendants argue that
the papers contain sensitive information pertaining to third party employee
personnel matters, and other nonpublic and competitively sensitive corporate
information. 
 
            Specifically,
Defendants seek to seal the following documents:[1]
 
(1.)  Portions of Plaintiffs’ Memorandum of Points
& Authorities and Separate Statement which reference and/or discuss
confidential materials;
(2.)  Exhibits 10, 11, 12, and 14 to Plaintiffs’
Compendium of Evidence (portions of the deposition transcripts of Marc
Friedant, Christine Benigo, Sue Hopeman, and Leo Cid);
(3.)  Exhibits 16, 17, 19, 34, 35, and 38 to
Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence (documents produced by Defendants in
discovery);
(4.)  Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Joshua I.
Epstein contained in Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections (portions of the
deposition transcript of Carmen Pimentel); and
(5.)  Portions of Defendants’ Reply Memorandum of
Points & Authorities and Response to Plaintiffs’ Statement of Additional
Material Facts which reference and/or discuss the confidential materials
submitted in connection with Plaintiffs’ opposition to MSJ.
 
Defendants also seek to seal the
following documents that Plaintiff publicly filed but which, they
contend, should have been filed under seal:
 
(6.)  Exhibits 18, 20, 21, 23, and 36 to Plaintiffs’
Compendium of Evidence (documents produced by Defendants in discovery), and
(7.)  Portions of Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement
which reference and/or discuss confidential materials (specifically,
Plaintiffs’ “Statement of Additional Material Facts” Nos. 30 and 212).
 
By way of background, the California
Supreme Court has held that there is a First Amendment right of public access
to “ordinary civil trials and proceedings.” (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc.
v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1212.) As our high court has
explained, this constitutional right is a “qualified” one in the sense that the
proceedings “are ‘presumptively open’ ” and in order for them to be ordered
closed, the court must give advance notice of the potential closure and must
conduct a hearing and must make express findings supporting the closure order
and/or the sealing of court records. (Id. at p. 1217.)
 
Since NBC Subsidiary,
California Courts of Appeal have regularly employed a constitutional analysis
in resolving disputes over public access to court documents. (E.g., In re
Marriage of Nicholas (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1575 [holding sealing
orders implicate the public’s right of access under the First Amendment.]; Savaglio
v. Wal–Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596 [explaining the public
has a First Amendment right to access civil litigation documents filed in court
and used at trial or submitted as basis for adjudication].)
 
Thus, under NBC Subsidiary, before
the presumption of openness established by the First Amendment may be overcome,
the trial court must hold a hearing and expressly find that (1) there is an
overriding interest supporting sealing of the records; (2) there is a
substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent sealing;
(3) the sealing order is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest;
and (4) there is no less restrictive means of meeting that interest. (NBC,
supra, at pp. 1217–1218.) The Judicial Council codified the NBC
constitutional standards in rules 2.550 and 2.551—which are also known as “
‘the sealed records rules.’ ” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.)


Here, Defendants argue that the documents
they seek to seal contains “highly sensitive matters pertaining to Robbins Brothers’
security systems and procedures, internal decision making and investigations
into private third-party matters, non-public corporate financial information,
and third-party personnel information protected by employees’ privacy rights.”
(Mot., 7:3-6.) 
 
Defendants’ evidence for their request to seal specific documents
is inadequate. 
 
For example, Defendants seeks to seal lists identifying individuals that were selected for a reduction in force (Exhibits
21 and 38 to Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence), noting that these lists
contain private information pertaining to third party individuals including
years of service, rates of pay, severance amounts, age, ethnicity, and gender.
However, there is no analysis or “specific showing” that “serious
injury” will occur absent a sealing order. (McNair v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn., supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 35; Huffy Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 106 abrogated on other grounds in
Curtis v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 471; CRC, rule
2.550(d)(3).) “ ‘ “Broad allegations of harm, bereft of specific examples or
articulated reasoning” ’ ” are insufficient. (McNair v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn., supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 35.)
 
Defendants make another argument
that Equity
Purchase Agreement pertaining to the 2021 sale of the company (Exhibit 35) contains
highly sensitive and non-public corporate financial information – arguing that the
disclosure of which could be used to unfairly compete with and/or harm Defendant
Robbins Brothers’ business. Similar to the request to seal the list of individuals
that were selected for a reduction in force, the vague assertion of harm here is
insufficient and, as discussed below, lacking any evidentiary support.
Moreover, in reviewing this exhibit, the purchase agreement appears to be standard
purchase agreement such that the Court cannot ascertain the specific provision
that contains the “highly sensitive” financial information. 
 
Defendants also seek to seal deposition testimony pertaining
to its alarm systems and security procedures. Defendants argue the disclosure
of this information could potentially threaten the security of Defendants’ jewelry
stores. In reviewing the redacted deposition transcripts, the Court was unable
to locate any specific deposition testimony that appears to pertain to “alarm systems
and security procedures” or even appears to pertain to general security issues
at all. Absent evidence to support this argument or even a specific
identification of some portion of evidence appearing to have any real
implications on security, the mere reference to security and claim of harm is
woefully inadequate. 
 
No other specific arguments are made
as to any other specific records. 
 
Moreover, as noted above, the only evidence
submitted to support the motion to seal derives exclusively Defendants’
attorney’s declaration that certain documents produced during discovery were
designated confidential pursuant to the parties’ protective order. (Cohen Decl.,
¶¶ 2-4, Ex. A.) This evidentiary ground alone is inadequate to justify sealing
here. (McNair v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 25, 35–36 [An agreement “alone is insufficient to constitute an
overriding interest to justify sealing.”]; CRC, Rule 2.551, subd. (a) [“court
must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement
or stipulation of the parties”].) Specifically, courts have found that
enforcement of binding contractual obligations not to disclose “can
constitute an overriding interest within the meaning of Rule 243.1(d)
[currently California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550].” (Universal City Studios
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (Unity Pictures Corp.) (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273, 1284 [italics added].) However, in ordering records sealed,
the court must also find a substantial probability that the moving party would
be prejudiced absent sealing. (Id. at 1280-1284.)
 
Lastly, the request to seal is not
narrowly tailored. Defendants argue they do “not seek to seal the entirety of the
MSJ opposition and reply—only those limited portions that contain and/or refer
to confidential and private information.” (Mot., 8:1-8.) However, while
technically true, the motion ignores the fact that Defendants seek to seal
entire exhibits (or the vast majority of the redacted exhibit) of evidence
underlying the motion. Even a cursory review of these redactions indicates that
the sealing request is overbroad. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court denies Defendants’ motion to seal. Defendants and Plaintiffs are ordered to file
the unredacted versions of the papers and any supporting documentation electronically
by February 9, 2024.
 


