

 
            This
action arises from a dispute involving a $1.5 billion construction renovation
of the Hyatt Regency Century Plaza Hotel in Century City (Project). Plaintiff
Control Air Enterprises, LLC was the HVAC subcontractor for the Project and claims
it is owed millions of dollars for the labor and materials it furnished to
Defendant Webcor Construction, L.P (Webcor), the general contractor on the
Project. Plaintiff Control Air Enterprises also alleges it is owed money for
labor and materials provided to Defendant Next Century Partners, LLC (NCP),
owner of the Hyatt Regency Century
Plaza Hotel. On August 14, 2022, Plaintiff Control Air Enterprises, LLC
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Webcor and NCP. 
 
            On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff
Control Air (CAE) filed a form Amendment to Complaint (Fictious/Incorrect
Name), replacing “Doe 1” with Next Century Partners Mezzanine Borrower LP (NCPMB).
 
            On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint against Defendants Webcor, NCP, and NCPMB, alleging
causes of action for (1) Breach Of NCP Contract; (2) Fraud-Nondisclosure; (3)
Breach Of Hotel Subcontract; (4) Breach Of Tower Subcontract; (5) Fraud In The
Inducement (Hotel SCO and Tower SCO); (6) Quantum Meruit; (7) Foreclosure Of
Mechanic’s Lien (Hotel); (8) Foreclosure Of Mechanic’s Lien (Towers); (9)
Disgorgement For Violation Of Contractor Licensing Laws; and (10) Declaratory
Relief regarding Violation Of Contractor Licensing Laws. 
 
On June 26, 2023, Defendants Webcor,
NCP, and NCPMB each filed a separate demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
            Defendant Webcor’s demurrer was sustained with leave as to
the fifth cause of action and sustained without leave to amend as to the ninth
and tenth causes of action. Defendant NCP’s demurrer was overruled as to the first
cause of action. Defendant NCPMB’s demurrer was sustained with leave to amend
as to first, second, sixth, seventh and
eighth causes of action.
 
            On October
19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint against Defendants Webcor,
NCP, and NCPMB, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of NCP Contract; (2)
Fraud-Nondisclosure; (3) Breach of Hotel Subcontract; (4) Breach of Tower
Subcontract; (5) Fraud In The Inducement (Hotel SCO and Tower SCO); (6) Quantum
Meruit; (7) Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien (Hotel); and (8) Foreclosure of
Mechanic’s Lien (Towers).
 
            On November
30, 2023, Defendants Webcor and NCPMB both filed a demurrer to the Third
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposed each demurrer.
 
            Defendant
Webcor’s demurrer is sustained without leave as to the fifth cause of action.
Defendant NCPMB’s demurrer is overruled as to first, second, sixth, seventh and eighth causes of action.
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Webcor
Construction, L.P.’s Demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
in the Inducement
            
            Defendant
Webcor argues the fifth cause of action for fraud in the inducement was not
pled with the specificity required for a fraud cause of action and fails to
state a claim.
 
            Promissory fraud or false promise “
‘is a subspecies of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud.’ [Citations.]” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973–974.) “An action for promissory fraud may lie where a defendant fraudulently
induces the plaintiff to enter into a contract.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
 
The elements of promissory fraud “are: (1) a promise
made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the
existence of the intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3)
intent to deceive or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable
reliance by the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the promise;
and (6) resulting damage to the promise[e].” (Behnke v. State Farm General
Ins. Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1453.) 
 
As with any other form of fraud, each element of a
promissory fraud claim must be alleged with particularity. (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1059–1060.) “A plaintiff's burden in asserting a
fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a case, the
plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly
fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’ [Citation.]” (Lazar v.
Superior Court, supra, 12 Cal.4th at 645.)
 
            Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action relies
primarily on the allegations in Paragraph 71. The paragraph has three sentences,
none of which supports a claim for fraud.
 
First,
Paragraph 71 of the TAC alleges “[f]rom December 2021 through January 30, 2022,
Kurt Ricci and others on behalf of WEBCOR engaged in meetings and discussions
with Greg Ellis and others on behalf of CAE to try to resolve certain disputes
over the Hotel and Tower Subcontracts.” This sentence contains no allegation of
any specific representations. 
 
Second,
Paragraph 71 of the TAC alleges “[o]n or about December 16, 2021, Kurt Ricci
and others from Webcor memorialized terms of an agreement between WEBCOR and
CAE in an email sent to Greg Ellis of CAE that promised ‘No further credits or
back-charges will be processed against Control Air or Webcor in associated with
this scope of works [sic].’” 
 
            This allegation refers generally to
“Kurt Ricci and others from Webcor” as the persons making the representation.
(TAC ¶ 71.) However, the allegation does
not allege who specifically sent the email containing the specific
representation. (TAC ¶ 71.) Moreover, the TAC
is devoid of any allegations as to these named and unnamed persons’ authority
to speak on behalf of the Webcor. (West
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.) 
 
            Additionally, the falsity of this
specific email representations is unclear. The TAC alleges Webcor promised “No
further credits or back-charges will be processed against Control Air or Webcor
in associated with this scope of works [sic].” (TAC ¶71.) This allegation is
unclear as to what was “this scope of work” as there is no other context to
this written representation. Similarly, the TAC’s allegation that “Despite
repeatedly promising CAE that it would not assert backcharges related to a
certain portion of CAE’s work, WEBCOR did just that” is equally unclear as what
Webcor wrongly backcharged. (TAC ¶ 73.) Simply put, it is unclear from the identified
representation what was specifically promised by Webcor and what was specifically
done by Webcor in violation of this promise.
 
Finally,
paragraph 71 contains an allegation that “on or about January 26, 2022, Kurt
Ricci of WEBCOR made a promise to CAE to not assert any backcharges against CAE
relating to any work performed prior to the execution of the Hotel SCO and
Tower SCO in a written agreement contained in the Hotel and Tower SCOs and
transmitted that writing to Greg Ellis.” (TAC ¶ 71.) 
 
            First, for the reasons discussed in
the Court’s ruling on the demurer to the SAC, Plaintiff cannot rely on a fraudulent
promise set forth in the written SCOs (to the extent this allegation attempts
to do so). 
 
            Further, Plaintiff executed the
Hotel SCO and Tower SCO on January 21, 2022. (TAC ¶¶ 46- 47, Exs. D-E.) Thus,
these January 26, 2022 representations were made after Plaintiff CAE entered
into the Hotel SCO and Tower SCO, undermining the argument that the allegedly
false representations induced CAE to enter into these agreements. Because the representations
post-date the SCOs, they cannot, as a matter of law, have been relied upon to enter
into the SCOs. That is, the TAC fails to show lack detrimental reliance on these
January 26 representations.
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s fraud cause
of action remains deficient for multiple reasons. 
 
Webcor’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
            
Next
Century Partners Mezzanine Borrower, LLC’s
Demurrer to the First, Second, Sixth, Seventh and
Eighth Causes of Action
 
            Defendant Next
Century Partners Mezzanine Borrower, LLC (NCPMB) demurs to the first, second,
sixth, seventh and eighth causes of action on the grounds that the TAC alleges insufficient
facts about NCPMB’s purported involvement in the wrongdoing arising from the renovation
project. 
 
As
the demurrer notes, only a handful of paragraphs attribute any specific
allegations against NCPMB. (Dem., 3:19-4:16 [citing TAC ¶¶ 3, 16, 17, 19, 38,
39].) With respect to Paragraphs 3 and 16, these allegations contain only
slight changes from the SAC and no new substantive allegations. (Compare SAC ¶¶
3, 16 with TAC ¶¶ 3, 16.) Essentially, these allegations state that NCPMB is the
sole member of NCP and owns 100% of the equity interests of NCP. 
 
The
only new allegations relating to alter ego liability are the allegations that NCP
and NCPMB are both are managed and controlled by the same individual, Michael
Rosenfeld, and use the same office address (TAC ¶ 17), and the allegation that the
NCP and NCPMB share the same purpose of financing, developing and constructing
the Century Plaza Hotel (TAC ¶ 18). 
 
The
only other change to the TAC as it relates to NCPMB’s liability is that instead
of referring to “Owner Defendants,” the TAC now refers specifically to NCP and
NCPMB.[1] 
 
The
remaining paragraphs referring to NCPMB rely on alleging that NCPMB was the
alter ego of NCP. That is, CAE continues to rely on the alter ego theory as to
NCP to extend liability to NCPMB, having alleged no specific allegations of wrongdoing
against NCPMB.  
 
            Defendant NCPMB’s demurrer contends
that the alter ego allegations are insufficient to attach liability onto NCPMB
from other defendants’ conduct, and argues that Plaintiff simply
recites several common boilerplate factors in support of alter ego liability. 

 
            Based on the new factual allegations,
the alter ego
allegations in the TAC are sufficient. 
 
“Ordinarily
a corporation is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from its
stockholders, officers and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities
and obligations. [Citation.] The same is true of a limited liability company
(LLC) and its members and managers. [Citations.] [¶] That legal separation may
be disregarded by the courts ‘when [a corporation or LLC] is used [by one or
more individuals] to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.’ ”
(Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214,
220-221; see Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 539.) 
 
“Before the
alter ego doctrine will be invoked in California, two conditions generally must
be met. [¶] ‘First, there must be such a unity of interest and ownership
between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities
of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there
must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of
the corporation alone.’ [Citation.] While courts have developed a list of
factors that may be analyzed in making these determinations, ‘[t]here is no
litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be pierced; rather the
result will depend on the circumstances of each particular case.’ ” (Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 221; see Mesler
v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300; Sonora Diamond Corp.
v. Superior Court, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 538.)
 
In general,
the conditions in which a court may disregard the structure of a limited
liability company and consider it the alter ego of a member “necessarily vary
according to the circumstances in each case inasmuch as the [alter ego]
doctrine is essentially an equitable one and for that reason is particularly
within the province of the trial court.” (Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185
Cal. App. 4th 799, 811.)
 
Here, the TAC
adds the following specific factual allegations regarding alter ego: identical equitable ownership in the two
entities, use of the same offices, and common interest and purpose. Additionally,
the TAC contains the allegation that NCPMB is the sole
member of NCP and owns 100% of the equity interests of NCP, which adds to the
alter ego analysis. 
 
These allegations are sufficient for
pleading purpose to allege alter ego liability. (See e.g., Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 224 [evidence that
an LLC “serve[s] as a vehicle for holding and investing” the money of an
individual who is also the sole and managing member of that LLC supports a
unity of interest].)
 
NCPMB’s
demurrer is overruled.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Webcor’s demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action. Defendant NCPMB’s
demurrer is overruled as to first,
second, sixth, seventh and eighth causes of action. 


