 Case Number:  23STCV24697    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV24697 TIFFANY BANK vs
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant City of Los
Angeles 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA IS GRANTED IN
PART;
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
On October 10, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the present slip and fall case against Defendants, including
Defendant City of Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that she was injured when she
tripped over an uneven sidewalk located near 670 S. Dunsmuir Ave, Los Angeles,
CA 90036. In response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.2, which asks Plaintiff to
identify each injury Plaintiff attributes to the subject incident and the area
of her body affected, Plaintiff stated: "back pain, ankle pain, knee pain,
body soreness, increased anxiety, insomnia, and depression." On May 30,
2024, Defendant served eight subpoenas for Plaintiff’s insurance and medical
records. Plaintiff alleges that none of the aforementioned subpoenas are
limited in time or scope, as they seek “any and all” records related to
Plaintiff from each of the entities. Specifically:
1.  Kaiser
Permanente (Medical Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and
digital medical records including but not limited to both private and
industrial records, doctors notes, treatment and evaluation records, nurses
notes, inpatient and outpatient records, correspondence, lab results,
diagnostic test results and all medical and radiology reports. To Include any
and all Exchange of Liens and Correspondence in addition to Meds, Bills,
X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
2.  Kaiser
Permanente (Billing Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and
digital itemized billing records. To include any and all Exchange of Liens and
Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
3.  Kaiser
Permanente (Radiology Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and
digital X-rays, MRI’s and CT scans and reports. To include any and all Exchange
of Liens and Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance,
etc.”
4.  SimonMed
Imaging (Medical Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and digital
medical records including but not limited to both private and industrial
records, doctors notes, treatment and evaluation records, nurses notes,
inpatient and outpatient records, correspondence, lab results, diagnostic test
results and all medical and radiology reports. To Include any and all Exchange
of Liens and Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance,
etc.”
5.  SimonMed
Imaging (Billing Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and digital
itemized billing records. To include any and all Exchange of Liens and
Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
6.  SimonMed
Imaging (Radiology Records): “[a]ny and all non-privileged physical and digital
X-rays, MRI’s and CT scans and reports. To include any and all Exchange of
Liens and Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
7.  Southern
California Sports Rehabilitation (Medical, Billing, Radiology Records): “[a]ny
and all non-privileged physical and digital MEDICAL and ITEMIZED BILLING
records including but not limited to both private and industrial records,
doctors notes, nurses notes, inpatient and outpatient records, correspondence,
lab results, diagnostic test results and all medical and radiology reports. To
include and and all actual X-RAY FILMS, CT & MRI SCANS on CD ONLY. To
Include any and all Exchange of Liens and Correspondences in addition to Meds,
Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
8.  Westside
Pain Specialists (Medical, Billing, Radiology Records): “[a]ny and all
nonprivileged physical and digital MEDICAL and ITEMIZED BILLING records
including but not limited to both private and industrial records, doctors
notes, nurses notes, inpatient and outpatient records, correspondence, lab
results, diagnostic test results and all medical and radiology reports. To
include and and all actual X-RAY FILMS, CT & MRI SCANS on CD ONLY. To
Include any and all Exchange of Liens and Correspondences in addition to Meds,
Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.”
Plaintiff now moves the
Court to limit the subpoenas for medical and radiology records to treatments of
only those body parts and medical conditions that Plaintiff put at issue and
from ten (10) years prior to the date of the subject incident to the present.
Plaintiff also requests that the subpoenas for billing records be limited to
include only records from the date of the subject incident to the present.
Legal Standard
CCP section 1987.1
states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1(a).)  “In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Id.) 
Subdivision (b) provides that a party may make a motion pursuant to subdivision
(a).  (Id., § 1987.1(b).) 
 As a general
rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of
the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial
or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court. (1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be discovered impacts a
person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited protections come into play
for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993,
999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal and financial matters. (Id.)
The court must balance competing rights — the right of a litigant to discover
relevant facts and the right of an individual to maintain reasonable privacy —
in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Id.) 
A motion to quash a
subpoena for personal records, including medical records, must be accompanied
by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt at informal
resolution of the dispute” between the party requesting the records and the
“consumer” or “employee” whose records are involved or counsel for such
person.  (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)   The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet and confer requirement. 
Scope of the Subpoena
        In
Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, the
California Supreme Court found that the following should be considered by the
trial court in balancing the interests between the right of civil litigants to
discover relevant facts and the right of bank customers to maintain reasonable
privacy regarding their financial affairs: “. . . the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the parties and on
the trial, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting
disclosure, and ability of the court to make an alternative order which may
grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another form, or disclosure only in the
event that the party seeking the information undertakes certain specified
burdens which appear just under the circumstances.” (Id. at
658.)  
        Although
relevance is typically construed liberally (see Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co.
v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 169), the standard is more stringent
when a party is attempting to discover documents which are constitutionally
protected by the right to privacy:   
 [E]ven when
discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues of
ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a
careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy.  . . . [I]f an intrusion on the right of
privacy is deemed necessary under the circumstances of a particular case, any
such intrusion should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its
objective . . . [meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the interest.
Mere convenience of means or cost will not satisfy that test for that would
make expediency and not the compelling interest the overriding value.  (Lantz
v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854-1855 [internal quotes
and citations omitted].) 
 This is true even
where the party asserting the right to privacy is the party who brought the
suit.  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842
[“While the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such waiver
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits . . . . [A]n implicit waiver of a
party’s constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to
the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution of the
lawsuit.”].)  The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally
protected information to establish direct relevance.  (Harris v.
Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)  
Discussion
In balancing
Defendant’s interest in having access to relevant documents to formulate its
defense against Plaintiff’s privacy interests in protecting her medical and
financial privacy, the Court finds "direct relevance" to mean
documents, either financial or medical, that relate to treatments of the body
parts and conditions at issue. In this case, these are treatments for
Plaintiff’s back, ankle, and knee, as well as conditions such as body soreness,
increased anxiety, insomnia, and depression. Defendant, in the opposition, does
not allege that there are additional body parts at issue.
The Court does not find
unfettered access to all of Plaintiff’s medical history to be directly relevant
and, in cases such as this one, typically limits access to both billing and
medical documents to a period of 10 years from the date of the incident to the
present. The court finds 10 years to provide a good balance between protecting
Plaintiff’s privacy interest while still providing Defendant with ample
information to prepare its defense.
The Court finds billing
records relating to the treatment to be directly relevant to assess the nature
and quality of treatment that Plaintiff has received related to the body parts
at issue, the progress of any condition affecting the specified body parts, and
to identify any unusual increases in medical expenses post-incident. These
records are relevant for determining the legitimacy and extent of Plaintiff’s
claimed damages.
Thus, the Court grants
the present motion in part and limits the subpoenas as follows: Medical and billing
records are limited to treatments for back pain, ankle pain, knee pain, body
soreness, anxiety, insomnia, and depression from ten (10) years prior to the
date of the subject incident to the present. 
The Court declines to
issue sanctions under the circumstances, as it granted Plaintiff’s motion only in
part. Additionally, there is a legitimate dispute regarding the scope of the
subpoenas, and the Court finds that both parties have acted with substantial
justification.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 