 Case Number:  24STCV05452    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
Hearing Date: 7/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 24STCV05452 SHAUN MAYE WILLIAMS
et al. vs LYFT et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Lyft 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
 
Background 
 
This case stems from a June 20, 2022, motor vehicle accident in
which Plaintiffs Mycah Bacchus and Shaun Williams allegedly sustained personal
injuries. At the time of the accident, Plaintiffs were passengers in a vehicle
driven by Lyft driver Sabrelio Sibrian. Plaintiff Mycah Bacchus used the Lyft
platform to arrange the ride for Plaintiffs. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the present action. On March 21, 2024, law firm Homan, Stone & Rossi,
attorneys for Defendant Sibrian, erroneously filed an answer on behalf of Lyft.
On April 3, 2024, law firm Fox Rothschild, filed an answer on behalf of Lyft,
and on May 22, 2024, Lyft filed a notice of errata indicating that due to a
clerical error, Homan, Stone & Rossi filed an answer for Lyft but Homan was
retained to represent Defendant Sibrian only and never represented Lyft in this
action. On May 22, 2024, Lyft filed the present motion to compel arbitration.
 
Legal Standards 
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)¿ Under the Federal Arbitration Act, a court’s inquiry is limited to a determination of (1)
whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2) whether the arbitration
agreement covers the dispute.  (9 U.S.C., § 4;¿Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130;¿Howsam¿v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.¿(2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84;¿see¿Simula, Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716 [if the finding is affirmative on both
counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the arbitration agreement in
accordance with its terms].)¿ If a
clause delegating enforcement under the FAA exists, the court may only
adjudicate the enforceability of the delegation clause itself; if found
enforceable, questions regarding the enforceability of the underlying agreement
as a whole is reserved for the arbitrator.  (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc.
v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 72.)  In order for a delegation clause
to be enforceable, there must be a showing that the parties “clearly and
mistakably agreed that an arbitrator, not a court, would decide the question of
enforceability.”  (Peleg v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 1425, 1442.) This showing is fulfilled if the arbitration agreement
provides that its “enforcement” shall be governed by the FAA. (Victrola 89,
LLC v. Jaman Props. 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355-56.) 
 
“If an application has been made to a court .
. . for an order to arbitrate a controversy . . . the court in which such
action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application for an order to
arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy is ordered,
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.”¿(Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
Analysis 
 
A. Controlling Law 
 
Lyft’s arbitration agreement with Plaintiff
expressly states that “the agreement to arbitrate (“Arbitration Agreement”) is
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act”.¿(Def’s Ex. 2; Section 17(a) of the Arbitration Agreement.) Parties
to an arbitration agreement may voluntarily elect to have the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) govern enforcement of that agreement.¿(Victrola 89, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p.
355.)¿Here, the parties have so elected.¿Plaintiffs does not dispute the applicability of FAA in their
opposition. Accordingly, the Court finds that the FAA applies. 
 
B. Existence of an Agreement 
 
Under both Title 9 section 2 of the United
States Code (known as the FAA) and Title 9 of Part III of the California Code
of Civil Procedure commencing at section 1281 (known as the California
Arbitration Act, hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.¿(Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence
of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.¿(Code of Civ., Proc. § 1281.2.)¿ In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.¿(Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)¿Once
petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists.¿(See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
215, 219.) 
 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.¿(See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at 218; see also
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration.¿The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically
or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference”].)¿Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts
to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to
the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]”¿(Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.) 
 
Lyft has met its initial burden of showing that an arbitration
agreement exists between the parties. The 2016 Lyft Terms of Service, which
contains the original arbitration agreement between the parties (Def’s Ex. 2),
states in pertinent part:
 
 
PLEASE
BE ADVISED: THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS PROVISIONS THAT GOVERN HOW CLAIMS YOU AND
LYFT HAVE AGAINST EACH OTHER CAN BE BROUGHT (SEE SECTION 17 BELOW). THESE
PROVISIONS WILL, WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION, REQUIRE YOU TO SUBMIT CLAIMS YOU HAVE
AGAINST LYFT TO BINDING AND FINAL ARBITRATION ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS, NOT AS A
PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY CLASS, GROUP OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION OR
PROCEEDING …
 
By
entering into to this Agreement, you expressly acknowledge that you understand
this Agreement (including the dispute resolution and arbitration provisions
Section 17) and accept all of its terms. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE
TERMS AND COND ITIONS OF THIS AGREEM ENT, YOU MAY NOT USE OR ACCESS THE LYFT
PLATFORM. ¿(Def’s Ex. 2 at pg. 1.)¿¿ 
 
Furthermore, Section 17(a) of the 2016 Terms
provides the following: 
 
YOU AND
LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN
A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY
ARBITRATION, as set forth below. This agreement to arbitrate ("Arbitration
Agreement") is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act ("FAA'') … All
disputes concerning the arbitrability of a Claim (including disputes about the
scope, applicability, enforceability, revocability or validity of the
Arbitration Agreement) shall be decided by the arbitrator, except as expressly
provided below. (Def’s Ex. 2 ¶ 17(a)
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute having assented to Lyft's 2016 terms at
the time of downloading the Lyft application. Defendant has provided evidence
that in order to access Lyft's software platform to request rides, a person
(the "user") must first create a Lyft user account using the Lyft
App. This process requires the user to input information such as their first
and last name, email address, and phone number. After entering the required
personal information, the user is prompted within the Lyft App to accept the
Terms of Service during their account creation process. A user cannot access
the Lyft software platform without first creating a Lyft user account and
cannot request or purchase rideshare services through the Lyft App unless they
have affirmatively accepted Lyft's Terms of Service. (Declaration of Alex
Sniegowski ¶¶ 7-8)
 
Plaintiff argues that Ms. Bacchus and Mr. Williams are not bound by
even the original agreement they have entered into because Lyft had abandoned
those terms by the time of the subject collision. This argument is not backed
by any evidence or legal authority and is speculative. 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that Lyft has presented zero evidence
to establish that Ms. Bacchus or Mr. Williams received and therefore
voluntarily assented to these terms when they continued using the Lyft app.
However, this is not true. Defendant has produced evidence showing that
Plaintiffs both affirmatively accepted Lyft's Terms of Service within the Lyft
App on four separate occasions and Plaintiffs could not have used Lyft’s
services unless consenting to the terms. (Defendant's Exhibits 1 and 8, Sniegowski
Decl.¶¶ 13-14.) Plaintiff has failed to provide any evidence, such as
declarations or documents, to rebut this. Thus, the Court finds the existence
of an arbitration agreement between the parties.
 
C. Arbitrability 
 
1.  Legal Standard 
 
There often are three separate contracts for a
court to consider in deciding whether to compel arbitration: the underlying
contract, the arbitration agreement, and the delegation clause.¿A delegation clause purports to delegate arbitrability to the
arbitrator.¿The arbitration agreement and delegation
clause are often found within the underlying contract itself. 
 
Arbitration “is a matter of contract between
the parties.”¿First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan, (“First Options”) (1995) 514 U.S. 938, 943.¿Where the parties have agreed to arbitration, challenges to the
validity of the underlying contract are for the arbitrator to decide.¿Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters, (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096, 1108
(citations omitted).¿However,
challenges to the validity of the arbitration clause itself are generally
resolved by the court in the first instance.¿Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson, (“Rent-A-Center”) (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 71. 
 
In First Options, the United States
Supreme Court explained that the question of who should decide what is
arbitrable in an arbitration agreement is fairly simple and turns on the
parties’ agreement. 514 U.S. at 943. If the parties agreed to submit the arbitrability issue to the
arbitrator, then he or she should decide. Id. If the parties did not agree to submit the
arbitrability question to the arbitrator, then the court should decide
arbitrability. Id. This rule is based on the practical reason
that a party who has not agreed to arbitrate should normally have a right to a
court’s decision on the merits of a dispute. Id. at 942-43. Given that a party cannot be forced to
arbitrate unless it has agreed to do so, the courts should be hesitant to
interpret an arbitration provision’s silence or ambiguity on the who should decide arbitrability issue
as giving the arbitrator that power. Id. at 945. Therefore, courts should not assume that the parties agreed to
arbitrate arbitrability without clear and unmistakable evidence that they did
so. Id. at 944. 
 
In Rent-A-Center, the United States
Supreme Court addressed the question of who rules on the enforceability of a
delegation clause: the court or the arbitrator?¿Id. at 67-76.¿The high
court held that a delegation clause within an arbitration agreement must be
viewed as an independent contract.¿Id.¿ As with any independent contract, the courts
must resolve specific challenges to the delegation clause that are proper under
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) section 2, which includes any generally
applicable contract defenses.¿561 U.S.
at 68, 71.¿This rule requiring judicial consideration of
contract defenses to the enforceability of the delegation clause only exists
where the challenge is made to that clause.¿Id. at 71 (challenge to enforcement of arbitration agreement is
insufficient to challenge delegation clause).¿See also Nielsen, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th at 1108
(discussion Rent-A-Center’s holding). 
 
Thus, the issue of arbitrability “is an issue
for judicial determination unless the parties have clearly and unmistakably
provided otherwise.”¿Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 83.¿Parties may agree to have the arbitrator decide not only the merits
of a particular dispute, but also gateway questions of arbitrability such as
whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers
a particular controversy.¿ The
default presumption – “and it is a ‘strong’ one” – is that the parties intend the courts, not the arbitrator, to
decide arbitrability.¿Clayton Douglass v. Serenivision, Inc., (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 376, 386.¿Where the parties have delegated arbitrability to the arbitrator
through a clear and unmistakable delegation clause, a court may not override
the contract to decide any issue of arbitrability.¿See Henry Schein, Inc. v. Archer & White Sales, Inc.,
(“Henry Schein”) (2019) 139 S.Ct. 524, 529 (arbitrator, not court, must decide
argument that the argument for arbitration is “wholly groundless”).
 
2.  Discussion
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute that they assented to the 2016 terms or
the delegation clause contained within, which states: "All disputes
concerning the arbitrability of a Claim (including disputes about the scope,
applicability, enforceability, revocability, or validity of the Arbitration
Agreement)." The delegation clause is clear and unmistakable, and the
parties agreed to delegate all disputes concerning arbitrability to the
arbitrator. Furthermore, Defendant does not argue that the initial arbitration
agreement was entered into via fraud, duress, or that the delegation clause or
the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. (Def’s Ex. 2 ¶17(a).)
 
Plaintiff puts forth the following arguments: that the personal
injury claim is outside the scope of the 2016 terms, that Plaintiff has waived
arbitration, and that the third-party litigation exception applies. The
overriding issue with Plaintiff’s opposition is that the various arguments put
forth mostly relate to arbitrability, which Plaintiff does not dispute has been
delegated to the arbitrator. Additionally, Plaintiff’s arguments rely on
remedies available only under the California Arbitration Act (CAA), which have
been preempted as the parties have elected the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) to
be the controlling law.
 
A.  Applicability of Arbitration
 
Plaintiffs argue that they originally entered into an arbitration
agreement with Lyft under the 2016 terms, but the terms were materially changed
in 2020, and only the 2020 agreement covers the present personal injury claims.
The Court is not persuaded because in the foregoing analysis under the
"existence of an agreement" section, it found that Plaintiffs
affirmatively assented to modifications to the terms, including the 2020 terms.
Furthermore, even assuming, arguendo, that Plaintiffs did not assent to any
modifications, the Court is still not convinced that Plaintiffs’ personal
injury claims are not covered by the 2016 terms.
 
The Court examined the 2016 Terms and the 2020
Terms and does not see any material changes. The material changes were not
highlighted to the Court, and there is no reference to the inclusion of
personal injury claims in the 2020 Terms. Furthermore, the 2016 terms state:
"These Claims include ... the Services, any other goods or services made
available through the Lyft Platform … and all other federal and state statutory
and common law claims." (Def’s Ex. 2 ¶ 17(a).)
 
In Section 1 of the 2016 Terms, Lyft defines
Services as: "the driving services provided by Drivers to Riders that are
matched through the Platform shall be referred to collectively as the
'Services.'"
 
Undoubtedly, Plaintiff Bacchus’s personal
injury claims relate to the “Services” Lyft provided to Plaintiff or fall under
the catch-all provision of "all other federal and state statutory and
common law claims," as Plaintiff does not dispute that Bacchus utilized
the Lyft application to obtain driving services from Lyft, where Plaintiff was
injured as a passenger.
 
As to Plaintiffs’ argument that Plaintiff
Williams did not himself utilize the Lyft application for driving services and
therefore the arbitration agreement does not apply to Williams, the Court notes
that although Williams did not use the application to order the Lyft, he did
use the driving services rendered by the driver, as he was one of the
passengers who was allegedly injured while riding in a vehicle driven by a Lyft
driver. The court does find that an ambiguity exists as to whether Williams’s
personal injury claims fall under claims arising out of Services provided by
Lyft. Nonetheless, it is undisputed that both Bacchus and Williams delegated
the question of the scope and applicability of the arbitration agreement to the
arbitrator and whether the arbitration agreement applies to the dispute at hand
is a question for the arbitrator. (Douglass v. Serenivision, Inc. (2018)
20 Cal.App.5th 376, 386.)
 
B.  Waiver and Third Party Exception
 
Plaintiffs’ other arguments—that there is no
arbitration agreement with Defendant Sibrian, that there is a related action
with a serious possibility of conflicting rulings pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c),
or that Defendant through its conduct has waived arbitration pursuant to CCP §
1281.2(a)—all cite to CCP § 1281.2 or the California Arbitration Act (CAA).
However, Plaintiff does not dispute that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
applies. Therefore, CCP § 1281.2 is preempted, and the third-party litigation
exception under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2(c) is
preempted [Dias v. Burberry Ltd. (S.D. Cal. June 9, 2021) 2021 WL 2349730, at
*18 (holding that Section 1281.2 was inapplicable because FAA governs the
Agreement)].
 
Furthermore, as to waiver, although “the right
to arbitration, like other contractual rights, can be waived” (Martin v.
Yasuda, 829 F.3d 1118, 1124 (9th Cir. 2016)), “the question whether a party
waived its right to arbitrate on the basis of its litigation conduct is a
question of arbitrability” and thus a gateway issue (Id. at 1123.) This
issue is “presumptively for a court and not an arbitrator to decide,” unless
there is “clear and unmistakable language” that shows the parties' intent for
an arbitrator to decide the issue (Id. at 1123-24.) Here, pursuant to
Section 17a of the 2016 terms or 2020 terms, Plaintiffs agreed that “All
disputes concerning the arbitrability of a Claim (including disputes about the
scope, applicability, enforceability, revocability or validity of the
Arbitration Agreement)” would be decided by the arbitrator. The delegation clause
is clear and contains unmistakable language. Therefore, the issue of waiver is
for the arbitrator and not the court to decide.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the
proceedings as to Lyft pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1,
et seq.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 