 Case Number:  24STCP00706    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  85 
Moore v. Board of Civil Service
Commissioners, City of Los Angeles, et al., 
24STCP00706

Tentative
decision on motion for judgment: granted




 



 
 
Respondent City of Los Angeles (“City”) and its Department
of Airports (collectively, “City”) move pursuant to CCP section 1094 for judgment
on the First Amended Petition filed by Petitioner Ivan Moore (“Moore”).
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Petitioner Moore commenced this action on March 8,
2024.  The operative pleading is the
First Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on April 16, 2024.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.            
The City’s Los Angeles World Airports (“LAWA”) is a
proprietary department of the City.  FAP
¶2.  LAWA and the City employed Moore at
all relevant times.  FAP ¶2.  
On or about July 5, 2022 LAWA and the City notified Moore
that he was being discharged, effective July 5, 2022.   FAP ¶6.
Morre filed an appeal to the Commission pursuant to the
Commission’s and City’s rules.   FAP
¶7.  Moore sought review whether the
charges in the discharge notice were true and the penaltyof discharge was
appropriate.  FAP ¶9.  
The matter was heard by a hearing examiner who issued a
report, decision, and recommendation on June 20, 2023.  FAP ¶10. 
The hearing examiner determined that Moore’s discharge should not be
sustained.  FAP ¶11.  The hearing examiner’s report identified that
the parties stipulated that Skelly’s requirements had been met, none of
the charges or the penaly were sustained. 
The City’s only evidence was hearsay, which is not sufficient by itself
to prove a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in a civil
action.  FAP ¶12.
The Commission thereafter considered the hearing examiner’s
report.  FAP ¶13.  On December 14, 2023, the Commission adopted
findings and conclusions opposite from its hearing examiner.  FAP ¶14. 
On January 8, 2024, the Commission sustained LAWA’s decision to
discharge.  FAP ¶15, Ex. 1.  
Moore seeks mandamus with respect to the Commission’s
decision as not supported by the findings and the findings are not supported by
the weight of the evidence.  FAP
¶17.  The Commission also failed to
provide an analytical bridge from the evidence to its final conclusion.  FAP ¶18.  
The Commission further did not proceed in the manner required by law.  FAP ¶19.
Moore has exhausted all administrative remedies by filing
and pursuing and appeal.  FAP ¶22.   Pursuant to City’s Charter section 1017,
Moore has filed a Demand for Reinstatement with the Commission (Ex. 2) and a
Clam for Compensation with the City Clerk (Ex. 3).  FAP ¶23.
Moore prays for a writ of mandate requiring the Commission
to reverse the decision, and ordering full benefits and back pay from the date
of discharge, as well as attorney’s fees and costs of suit.  FAP at Prayer 1.  
 
2. Course of Proceedings
A proof of service on file shows that Moore served the FAP
via personal service on the Commission’s authorized agent, Brenda Salgado, and via
personal service on the authorized agent of the City and LAWA on April 16,
2024.
On June 11, 2024, the court overruled Respondents’ demurrer
to the FAP, ordering that they would have 20 days to answer only.  Respondents answered on June 27, 2024.
 
B. Applicable Law
A motion for judgment under CCP section 1094 may be made
where the petition for a writ of mandate (1) presents no triable issue of fact
or (2) is based solely on the administrative record. The CCP section 1094 motion for judgment is a mechanism to obtain a streamlined
review on a particular undisputed issue based on undisputed facts or the
administrative record.  Dunn v. County
of Santa Barbara, (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1293.  See also 2 CEB California Administrative Mandamus §13.23 (3d ed. 2007).  When a question of fact is raised by
the respondent’s answer, the petitioner has the right to countervail it with
proof.  CCP §1091; Lassen v. City of
Alameda, (“Lassen”) (1957) 150 Cal.App.2d 44, 47.  If the facts are undisputed or only a
question of law is raised, the court may hear the matter upon the papers filed
and argument.  Lassen, supra,
150 Cal.App.2d at 47.  
The petitioner also may waive the right to present evidence,
and the matter still may be heard under CCP section 1094.  Ibid. 
If a question of fact is raised by the answer, a CCP section 1094 motion
is not appropriate and the matter must be heard at trial.  See id. at 48.  In denying a CCP
section 1094 motion, the court may decide that the facts are disputed and hence
the motion is procedurally defective, or it may decide that the undisputed
facts/record show the moving party cannot prevail on that issue.  
 
C. Governing Law
1. City Charter
Section 1016
“Any board or
officer having the power of appointment shall have the power to suspend or discharge
any officer, member or employee of the office or department. No person in the
classified civil service shall be discharged or suspended except for cause,
which shall be stated in writing by the board or officer having the power to
make such discharge or suspension.”  City
Charter §1016(a) (discharge or suspension for cause).
“The written
statement of cause shall be filed with the Board of Civil Service
Commissioners, with certification that a copy has been served upon the person
so discharged or suspended, in accordance with Section 1018. Upon filing with
the board, the discharge or suspension shall take effect.”  City Charter §1016(b) (statement of cause).
“Within five days of
service of the written statement upon any person so discharged or suspended,
the person shall file a written application with the board in order to require
the board to hold a hearing to investigate the grounds for the discharge or suspension.
In the event that the person does not file an application, the board may, but
is not required to, within 15 days after the filing of the written statement
with the board, determine to hold a hearing to investigate the grounds for the
discharge or suspension.”  City Charter
§1016(c) (application for hearing).
“If, after
investigation and hearing as required by law is held, the board finds, in
writing, that the grounds stated for the discharge or suspension were
insufficient or were not sustained, the board shall order the person to be
reinstated or restored to duty. With the consent of the appointing authority,
the board may also reduce the length of the suspension, or may substitute
suspension for discharge, if the board makes a written finding that such action
is warranted. The order of the board with respect to the discharge or
suspension shall be promptly certified to the appointing board or officer, and
shall be final and conclusive.”  City
Charter §1016(d) (reinstatement; restoration).
“If the board orders
reinstatement or restoration to duty of a person who has been discharged or
suspended, the person shall be entitled to receive compensation from the City
the same as if he or she had not been discharged or suspended by the appointing
board or officer.”  City Charter §1016(e)
(compensation).
 
2. City Charter
Section 1017
“Whenever it is
claimed by any person that he or she has been unlawfully demoted, suspended,
laid off or discharged, and that person has filed an application for a hearing
as provided in Section 1016(c) and reinstatement or restoration to duty has
been denied, the person may file a written claim for compensation and a
demand for reinstatement. The claim and demand must be filed within 90 days
from the date of the decision of the board following a hearing, or if no
hearing is applied for, from the date on which it is claimed that the person
was first illegally, wrongfully or invalidly demoted, laid off, suspended or
discharged. The demand for reinstatement must be filed with the board and
the claim for compensation must be filed with the City Clerk. Failure to file a
demand for reinstatement with proof of filing with the board, within the time
specified in this section, shall be a bar to any action to compel
reinstatement.  Proof of filing with the
City Clerk of the claim for compensation within the time and in the manner
specified shall be a condition precedent to any recovery of wages or salary
claimed to be due on account of demotion, layoff, suspension or discharge.
Except as provided in this section, claims for compensation shall conform to
the requirements of Section 350.”  City
Charter §1017 (emphasis added).
 
D. Statement of Facts
1. City’s Evidence
Moore appealed his discharge from employment as a Custodian
Supervisor for LAWA to the Board.  Whidden Decl., ¶2.  Moore had a two-day evidentiary hearing for his
appeal on January 30 and March 7, 2023. Whidden Decl., ¶2.
The Board heard the matter on September 14, September 28,
October 26, and December 14, 2023, at which point the Board rendered its final
decision to uphold the disciplinary charges against Moore and sustain his
discharge from employment. Whidden Decl., ¶5.
 
Demand for Reinstatement
After conducting a diligent search of Board records and
reasonable inquiry into locating a demand for reinstatement filed or served by
or on behalf of Moore, the Board’s Executive Director, Bruce Whidden
(“Whidden”), did not locate any such demand for reinstatement in connection
with his discharge. Whidden Decl., ¶5.
The only records Moore filed on the Board following the
Board's final decision sustaining his discharge were: a. a conformed copy of
his petition to the court entitled “Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate
Reversing Administrative Decision” (Ex. A); b. a non-conformed copy of his
amended petition entitled “Amended Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate
Reversing Adniinistrative Decision” (Ex. B). Whidden Decl., ¶6.
The Executive Director of the Board does not generally
review court-filed writ petitions filed or served on the Board office by employees
or former employees who had an administrative case before the Board.  Whidden Decl., ¶9.  When the office receives a writ petition, it
is forwarded to the City Attorney's Office for handling.  Whidden Decl., ¶7.
The Board did not receive or review the writ petitions filed
by Moore with the Board office.  Whidden
Decl., ¶10.  Whidden reviewed only the
first page of the writ petitions that Moore filed with the Board office and they
were immediately forwarded to the City Attorney's Office.  Whidden Decl., ¶8.
When demands for reinstatement are filed with the Board
office they are placed on 9 the Board agenda for Board action.  Whidden Decl., ¶11.  The Board did not receive, review, or vote on
the demand for reinstatement attached 11 to any of Mr. Moore's writ petitions
referenced above as Exhibits A and B. 
Whidden Decl., ¶12.
 
Claim for Compensation
After conducting a diligent search and reasonable inquiry of
the City Clerk's records, Deputy City Clerk Mellinda Novoa (“Novoa”) did not
locate any claim for compensation or claim for damages relative to Moore.  Novoa Decl., ¶2.
Novoa did locate in the City Clerk's records a writ petition
entitled  “Verified Petition For Writ of
Mandate”, served on the City on February 28, 2024 (Ex. A).  Novoa Decl., ¶3.
Novoa also located a conformed copy of a writ petition
containing the following: Civil Case Cover Sheet, Civil Case Cover Sheet
Addendum and Statement of 16 Location, Notice of Case Assignment- Unlimited
Civil Case, Verified Petition For Writ of Mandate, Notice of Trial Setting
Conference, and Attached Orders Thereon. This was served on the City on March
21, 2024 Ex. B). Novoa Decl., ¶4.
Novoa further located a writ petition entitled “Amended Verified
Petition For Writ of Mandate Reversing Administrative Decision, served on the
City on April 16, 22 2024 (Ex C)  Novoa
Decl., ¶5.
The City Clerk's Office generally only reviews the title or
cover pages (e.g., civil case cover sheet, notice of case assignment,
etc.) of legal complaints and other similar legal documents served on the City
Clerk and then sends them to the City Attorney's Office.  Moore’s petitions were sent to the City
Attorney's Office.  (See Exs. A,
B, and C).  Novoa Decl., ¶2.
 
2. Moore’s Evidence
Demand for Reinstatement
Ronique Moore (“Ronique”), Moore’s wife, “served the Demand
for Reinstatement to Whidden on behalf of Moore.  Ronique Aff., ¶1.  On February 28, 2024, Ronique went to the
Board office where she waited for someone to meet her in the lobby.  Ronique Aff., ¶1.  She was told “they” were in a meeting and it
would be a while.  Ronique Aff., ¶1.  
Whidden eventually came to the lobby and Ronique informed
him that she was there to provide a request for reinstatement and a copy of the
petition that would be filed with the court. 
Ronique Aff., ¶1.  Whidden indicated
that they do not typically accept those, but she informed him that it was a
request for reinstatement for Moore and he accepted the paperwork.  Ronique Aff., ¶1.  She handed Whidden a document entitled
“Verified Petition For Writ of Mandate Reversing Administrative Decision and a
Demand for Reinstatement Letter.” 
Ronique Aff., ¶1.  She orally
informed Whidden that she was providing him with a demand for reinstatement and
a copy of the documents that would be filed in court.  Ronique Aff., ¶1.
 
Claim for Compensation
Ronique also served the Claim for Compensation.  Ronique Aff., ¶2.  On February 28, 2024, she went to the City
Clerk’s office where she informed “them” that she was there to provide a copy
of a lawsuit which was to be filed along with a Claim for Compensation for
Moore.    Ronique Aff., ¶2.  Ronique handed the clerk a document entitled
“Verified Petition For Writ of Mandate Reversing Administrative Decision and a claim
for compensation letter.”  Ronique Aff.,
¶2.  She explained that the lawsuit had
not yet been filed with the court but would be. 
Ronique Aff., ¶2.  When the clerk
stamped the Court Clerk’s copy, Ronique asked that the clerk also stamp hers ,
and the clerk did so (see Ex. 1). 
Ronique Aff., ¶2.  Ronique asked
the clerk her name, and she said “Marisol G.” 
Ronique Aff., ¶2.
 
E. Analysis
The City moves for
judgment pursuant to CCP section 1094.  
City Charter section 1017 states, in pertinent part that
“[t]he demand for reinstatement must be filed with the board and the claim for
compensation must be filed with the City Clerk. Failure to file a demand for
reinstatement with the proof of filing with the board, within the time
specified in this section, shall be a bar to any action to compel
reinstatement.”  
The City argues that Moore did not file a demand for
reinstatement with the Board. Whidden Decl., ¶5. He only filed: a (1) court
conformed copy of his initial writ petition; and (2) an amended writ petition,
each containing a demand for reinstatement attached as Exhibit 2.  Whidden Decl., Exs. A and B.  Moore admitted that he failed to file the
demand for reinstatement as a standalone document in his declaration in
opposition to the City’s motion to strike stating that he attached the demand
for reinstatement and the claim for compensation to his petitions.  Mot. to Strike Opp., Moore Decl., ¶3 (“I also
went with my wife where she filed with the Board of Civil Service Commissioners
a Demand for Reinstatement, which I also attached to the Verified Petition.”).  
The City argues that it appears Moore would have the court
construe the demand for reinstatement attached to his writ petitions as the
demand for reinstatement itself.  The demand
for reinstatement must be a standalone document.  This is why Whidden did not locate any such
demand.  Whidden Decl., ¶5.  The error in how Moore sought to satisfy his
administrative exhaustion duties by attaching the demand to his petition(s) was
so great that it denied the City notice and an opportunity to act, and thus
amounted to a failure to exhaust altogether. 
Mot. at 7.
Neither the Petition nor the FAP substitute for filing the
demand for reinstatement under City Charter section 1017.  Moore’s presentation of his demand for
reinstatement via attachment as an exhibit to his Petition (lawsuit) is that it
fails to constitute a demand in itself, thereby depriving the Board notice of
its existence.  Since the Board office
transmits all legal complaints to counsel, Whidden only reviewed the first page
for this purpose, and forwarded them to the City Attorney’s Office.  Whidden Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.  Because it is neither customary nor necessary
for him to review lawsuits, Whidden did not have the opportunity to identify
the demand for reinstatement buried at the end of the Petitions.  Thus, the Board had no reason to, and did not,
receive or review, the Petitions filed with the Board office.  Whidden Decl., ¶¶ 9-10, 12.  Mot. at 9-10.
Moore’s failure to afford notice to the Board deprived it of
following fixed procedures to determine the issue of reinstatement before Moore
sought relief from the court. When an individual files a demand for
reinstatement with the Board office, they are agendized for the Board’s review
and action  -- i.e.,
consideration, deliberation, approval, denial.  See Whidden Decl., ¶11.  “The demand [for reinstatement] may be
somewhat analogous to the requirement of a petition for a rehearing addressed
to the board [of Civil Service Commissioners]. The board is given an additional
opportunity to pass upon the issue before resort is had to the courts.”  Steen v. Board of Civil Service Comm’rs,
(1945) 26 Cal. 2d 716, 722.  By affixing
the demand for reinstatement, Moore deprived the Board of the opportunity to
reconsider the discharge before he sought recourse from the court.  Mot. at 10.
Moore’s demand for reinstatement amounts to a misdirected
claim similar to the claim in Mota v. Tri-City Healthcare Dist., (2021)
565 F. Supp. 3d 1207, 1209, 1211, which did not reach the body which would decide
the demand. In Mota, the plaintiff sued a public hospital district for
malpractice and delivered her government claim to the public entity’s risk
manager, who provided it to its legal department, and whose in-house counsel
provided it to its outside counsel.  Id.
at 1211-12.  In granting summary judgment,
the court found that because plaintiff failed to mail her claim to the
appropriate person and that it never made it to the hospital district’s board.  Id. at 1211.  The court held that the provisions deeming
actual receipt of the misdirected claim as compliance were not satisfied
because the board did not receive it.  Id.
at 1212.  Here, too, the demand was
buried under a legal complaint and did not reach the Board, which was the decision-making
body.  Mot. at 14.
The court agrees that Moore was required to file a
standalone demand for reinstatement with the Board and that attaching it as an
exhibit does not suffice to meet the requirements of City Charter section
1017.  
There is ambiguity in Ronique’s affidavit whether she filed
the demand for reinstatement as a standalone document.  She states that she informed Whidden that she
was there to provide a request for reinstatement and a copy of the petition
that would be filed with the court. 
Ronique Aff., ¶1.  She handed
Whidden a document entitled “Verified Petition For Writ of Mandate Reversing
Administrative Decision and a Demand for Reinstatement Letter.”  Ronique Aff., ¶1.  She orally informed Whidden that she was
providing him with a demand for reinstatement and a copy of the documents that
would be filed in court.  Ronique Aff.,
¶1.  Thus, it is unclear from Moore’s
evidence whether Ronique gave Whidden the Petition with the demand for
reinstatement attached or as a standalone document.
However, the Board and the City Clerk, respectively, do not
have a standalone demand for reinstatement and a standalone claim for
compensation in their files.  They do
have the Petition and the FAP, which suggests no standalone demand was
filed.  Moore also does not assert that
the demand for reinstatement was a standalone document.  In fact, he notes that the City argues that
he did not file a demand for reinstatement with the Board but acknowledges that
it received the demand for reinstatement that was attached to the Amended
Petition.  Opp. at 2.  He also states that it is unfair to him that
he failed to file a demand for reinstatement simply because Whidden did not
read the documents he had been given. 
Opp. at 3.  These arguments imply that
no standalone document was delivered.[1] 
 
F. Conclusion
The undisputed
evidence shows that, on February 28, 2024, Ronique served the Board with
the Petition and that it had a demand for reinstatement attached as an exhibit.  This was inadequate to comply with City
Charter section 1017. [2]  The motion for judgment under CCP section 1094
is granted.  
The City’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment, serve it on Moore for approval as to form, wait ten days after
service for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and then
submit the proposed judgment along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for September 17,
2024 at 9:30 a.m.
 
 
 


