 Case Number:  BC709376    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Sadeghi v. Pinscreen,
Inc., et. al., Case No. BC709376 
Tentative Ruling re: Defendant’s Renewed Motion for
Summary Adjudication 
Defendant Pinscreen, Inc. filed a renewed motion for summary
adjudication (MSA) on the issue of duty. The motion for summary adjudication is
denied.
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and if not to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Atlantic
Richfield).) Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence
in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Once the moving party has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
            The
Court’s “role on summary judgment is simply to decide whether the parties
possess evidence requiring the fact-weighing procedures of a trial. (Soto v.
County of Riverside (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 492, 496.) “The purpose of the
summary judgment procedure is not to try the issues, but merely to
determine whether there are issues to be tried.” (Orser v. George
(1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 660, 668.)
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1008(a) provides:  “When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008.)
“Section
1008, subdivision (a) requires that a motion for reconsideration be based on
new or different facts, circumstances, or law. A party seeking reconsideration
also must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the
evidence at an earlier time. [Citation].” (New York Times Co. v. Superior
Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)
 
 
Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c provides:  “A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment. A party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues
asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court
unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly
discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues
reasserted in the summary judgment motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(c)(f)(2).)
 
            In Defendant’s first motion for
summary adjudication Defendant asserted sought adjudication of the following: “Issue
3: That Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Breach of Employment
Contract fails because Defendant did not owe a contractual duty to Plaintiff
for any of the breaches alleged by Plaintiff.” (Appendix of Exs. in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition to Pinscreen’s second MJA, Ex. 1, Lines 15-17, p.2.) Issue 3 of
Defendant’s prior motion for summary adjudication was denied by the Court on
November 5, 2021. (Id., Ex. 2, ¶ 2 and November 10, 2021, Minute Order
p.1.) The Court stated that “As to Issue 3, Summary adjudication is denied as
defendant failed to meet its burden of establishing that plaintiff could not
establish a breach of contract as fully reflected in the Court's Order on
Defendant Pinscreen, Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative
Summary Adjudication issued by the Court, signed by the Court, and filed
11-05-2021 with the original forwarded to the e-Court scanning unit.” (Id.,
Ex. 2, November 10, 2021, Minute Order p.1-2.)
 
            Defendant filed a second motion for summary adjudication
on November 22, 2021, seeking adjudication of the following: “Issue 1:
Pinscreen did not owe a duty to Plaintiff under Plaintiff’s employment contract
to refrain from requiring Plaintiff to participate in the preparation and
presentation of fabricated avatars. Issue 2: Pinscreen did not owe a
duty to Plaintiff under Plaintiff’s employment contract to refrain from
retaliating against or terminating Plaintiff if he raised concerns over his
reasonable belief that Pinscreen violated California and federal laws.” (Id.,
Ex. 3, Lines 9-13, p.1.) On March 8, 2022, the Court denied the motion for
summary adjudication on the basis that it violated C.C.P. Section 437 subd. (c)(a)(3).
(Id., Ex. 4, March 8, 2022, Minute Order p.1-2.)
 
            Here, Defendant seeks summary adjudication on the same issues
raised in its previous two motions. Defendant Pinscreen argues the following: “Issue
1: The employment contract between Pinscreen and Sadeghi did not impose any
duty on Pinscreen to refrain from allegedly ‘requir[ing] Sadeghi to participate
in the preparation and presentation of fabricated avatars’ (Verified Fourth
Amended Complaint (“4AC”) ¶ 100), nor is such a duty imposed by the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Issue 2: The employment
contract between Pinscreen and Sadeghi did not impose any duty on Pinscreen to
refrain from allegedly ‘retaliating against Sadeghi and terminating Sadeghi
after he raised concerns over his reasonable belief that Pinscreen’s
transgressions violated California and federal laws’ (4AC ¶ 101), nor is such a
duty imposed by the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”
(Defendant Pinscreen’s renewed motion for summary adjudication, Lines 9-15,
p.2.) The Court has already ruled on the issue of breach of contract and duty.
Additionally, Defendant has not offered newly discovered facts, circumstances
or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the latest summary adjudication
motion.