  Case Number:  23STCV24958    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Wuxi Brisk Trading Co.,
LTD v. Nasimi, et. al., Case No. 23STCV24958 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify
Counsel
 
Defendants Adrian Nasimi aka AJ
Sadian and A&Y International Global Inc. move to disqualify Plaintiff’s
counsel, Andrew Ritholz, and the Law Offices of Andrew Ritholz Inc., from
participating in this case. The motion is denied.
 
A trial court is empowered to
disqualify counsel through its inherent power to control the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it. (M’Guinness
v. Johnson (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 602, 613.)
“Before an attorney may be
disqualified from representing a party in litigation because his representation
of that party is adverse to the interest of a current or former client, it must
first be established that the party seeking the attorney's disqualification was
or is ‘represented’ by the attorney in a manner giving rise to an
attorney-client relationship. [Citation.] The burden
is on the party seeking disqualification to establish the attorney-client
relationship.” (Koo v. Rubio's Restaurants, Inc. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 719, 729.)
“[W]here
a former client seeks to have a previous attorney disqualified from serving as
counsel to a successive client in litigation adverse to the interests of the
first client, the governing test requires that the client demonstrate a ‘substantial
relationship’ between the subjects of the antecedent and current
representations.”  (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283
[emphasis in original].) “[W]here the former attorney-client
relationship was peripheral or attenuated, rather than direct and personal . .
. the court will not presume the attorney received
confidential information absent a showing ‘the attorney was in a position
vis-[à]-vis the client to likely have acquired confidential information
material to the current representation.’ ” (Fiduciary Trust Internat. of
California v. Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 465, 479.) “ ‘Mere prior
professional association with the former client is not enough’[Citation]. The
focus is upon the nature and extent of the former attorney's involvement, as
well as the factual and legal similarity of the cases. [Citations.] ‘As part of
its review, the court should examine the time spent by the attorney on the
earlier cases, the type of work performed, and the attorney's possible exposure
to formulation of policy or strategy.’ [Citation].” (In re Marriage of
Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 564.)
“ ‘The fiduciary relationship existing between
lawyer and client extends to preliminary consultations by a prospective client
with a view to retention of the lawyer, although actual employment does not
result.’ [Citation].” (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil
Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1147–1148.) In assessing
whether a legal consultation has ripened into an attorney-client relationship
warranting disqualification, “[t]he primary concern is whether and to what
extent the attorney acquired confidential information. [Citation.] That
question is not necessarily answered by the amount of time involved. ‘Even the
briefest conversation between a lawyer and a client can result in the
disclosure of confidences.’ [Citation.] Consequently, a formal retainer
agreement is not required before attorneys acquire fiduciary obligations of
loyalty and confidentiality, which begin when attorney-client discussions
proceed beyond initial or peripheral contacts. An attorney represents a
client—for purposes of a conflict of interest analysis—when the attorney
knowingly obtains material confidential information from the client and renders
legal advice or services as a result.” (Ibid.)
Defendants argue that attorney Ritholz
was retained by Nasimi and A&Y to represent them as counsel in a case
brought against them in Yang Rim Co Ltd v. A & Y International Global
Inc., et al., Case No. 23STCV04534. (Defendants’ motion to disqualify
counsel, Lines 10-16, p. 3.) The former matter involved a breach of contract
claim related to the purchase of textiles from Yang Rim. (Id., Lines
17-20, p.3) The current case is a breach of contract case stemming from the
purchase of textiles from Wuxi Brisk Trading Co. Ltd by Nasimi and A&Y. (Id.)
Defendants argue that it is presumed that attorney Ritholz became privy to
confidential information in the course of their relationship and that attorney
Ritholz’s prior representation is substantially related to the current matter.
(Id., Lines 24-28, p. 6 and Lines1-3, p. 7.) Specifically, attorney
Ritholz learned of the ownership interest, operation of Nasami’s business
structure, operating practices, the financial condition of the Defendants and
their ability to maintain an action. (Id.) Additionally, attorney
Ritholz had multiple meetings with Nasimi and entered into a stipulation with
Yang Rim’s counsel to set aside default against Nasimi and A&Y. (Nasami
Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
Here, the Court finds that there is
not a substantial relationship between attorney Ritholz’s prior representation
and the current matter. First, the cases relate to separate contract disputes involving
different contracts and parties. The fact that attorney Ritholz represented Nasimi
and A&Y in an unrelated matter is not sufficient to show that a substantial
relationship existed between the two matters. 
Rather, it must be shown that the attorney acquired confidential
information “material to the current representation. ” (Fiduciary Trust
Internat. of California v. Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 465, 479.)
Acquiring confidential information that is unrelated to the current matter is
not sufficient to meet this burden. 
 
 