 Case Number:  21STCV09808    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DWAYNE FLOWERS,¿ Plaintiff(s),¿¿ vs.¿ ¿JASMINE WEBB, ET AL.,¿  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV09808  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 23, 2024  I.  BACKGROUND Defendant Jasmine Webb ("Defendant”) propounded set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and demand for production of documents on plaintiff Dwayne Flowers (“Plaintiff”) on May 2, 20231. To date, Plaintiff has not served responses. Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling defendant Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel submits a request for a continuance on the motions to compel on the grounds that Plaintiff’s counsel is unable to ascertain the status of the discovery responses due to a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. Plaintiff’s counsel requests that the motions to compel be set until at least thirty days after the motion on the hearing to be relieved as counsel is heard.  As of April 16, 2024, no reply was filed.  II. MOTIONS TO COMPEL For a motion to compel discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)  Although the Court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s counsel’s inability to reach Plaintiff due to a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, litigation is not halted due to Plaintiff’s absence. Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit against Defendant, and Plaintiff’s silence in the matter is not substantial justification to shirk his discovery obligations or for these motions to compel to be continued. Therefore, because the evidence shows Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to timely respond, any objections have been waived. Defendant’s motions are GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant’s (1) form interrogatories, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set one, and (2) demand for inspection and production of documents, set one, without objections, within thirty (30) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).)  III. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿ Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel in the amount of $810 for each motion. Given that Defendant is clearly informed that Plaintiff’s counsel is unable to contact Plaintiff, Defendant is on notice that the Court will not impose any sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel absent direct evidence that counsel in fact is able to contact Plaintiff.  A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)        Defendant is awarded $500 total for the motions as attorney’s fees. Further, Defendant is awarded three motion filing fees of $60, for a total of $180 as costs.   Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff only. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $660, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   