 Case Number:  21STCV12330    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BRIANA HUDSON, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MANSFIELD AND ASSOCIATES, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV12330  [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE EXPERTS, AND (2) GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AUGMENT EXPERT DESIGNATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 23, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Briana Hudson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Manfield and Associates (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a slip and fall on allegedly defective stairs covered in foreign debris and dust.  Plaintiff now seeks to strike Defendant’s orthopedic experts on the grounds that it is cumulative. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply. Defendant also filed a motion for leave to amend/augment its expert witness designation. The Court had advanced the hearing to April 23, 2024 due to its relation to Plaintiff’s motion to strike. (Min. Order, April 17, 2024.) Plaintiff opposes the motion.  II. PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE EXPERT DESIGNATION Trial court judges have the authority in appropriate circumstances to exclude expert testimony as a discovery sanction. (See e.g., Boston v. Penny Lane Centers, Inc. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 936, 952 [court may exclude expert opinion for unreasonable failure to produce expert reports and writings]; and Waicis v. Superior Court (1990) 226 Cal.App.3d 283, 287 [trial court had discretion to preclude testimony of expert who “was not cooperating with discovery”].) “ ‘Our Supreme Court has recognized that California courts have inherent powers, independent of statute, derived from two distinct sources: the courts' “equitable power derived from the historic power of equity courts” and “supervisory or administrative powers which all courts possess to enable them to carry out their duties.” ’ [Citation.] ‘The court's inherent power to curb abuses and promote fair process extends to the preclusion of evidence. Even without such abuses the trial court enjoys “broad authority of the judge over the admission and exclusion of evidence.” ...[T]rial courts regularly exercise their “basic power to insure that all parties receive a fair trial” by precluding evidence.’ ” [Citation.]   (Cottini v. Enloe Medical Center (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 401, 425 [finding that nothing in CCP § 2034.300 limits the inherent power of the trial court to exclude expert witnesses].) The court's inherent power to curb abuses and promote fair process extends to the preclusion of evidence. (Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 272, 288.) Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant designated Dr. Jeffrey Korchek, M.D. (“Korchek”), and Dr. Jonathan Jaivin, M.D (“Jaivin”), who are both orthopedic surgeons. Plaintiff contends the expected substance of their testimony is cumulative in nature, and that Plaintiff should not be obligated to depose each expert who will testify on the same topic. Plaintiff avers that Defendant will argue that Dr. Jaivin is a foot and ankle orthopedic specialist, but asserts that Dr. Korchek had conducted an extensive physical testing of Plaintiff’s foot and ankle. Because it is unknown whether one or both will testify to Plaintiff’s foot and ankle at trial, Plaintiff argues that all orthopedic expert testimony should be stricken. In opposition, Defendant argues that Dr. Korchek examined Plaintiff in 2021 with respect to her back, right knee, and left foot. Dr. Jaivin has not yet examined Plaintiff, and Dr. Jaivin is a foot and ankle specialist. Defendant avers Dr. Jaivin’s testimony will be limited to his specialty area. Further, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the two orthopedic experts is cumulative or duplicative since Plaintiff’s counsel has not yet deposed either, and Defendant should be afforded its experts  to combat Plaintiff’s multiple treating orthopedists. In reply, Plaintiff reiterates the same contentions, and argues that she will be prejudiced by having to depose multiple experts on the same topic. Here, the Court agrees with Defendant on the issue. Like all matters, an unspecific lamentation of prejudice is not enough. Plaintiff acknowledges that Dr. Jaivin is a specialist in foot and ankle injuries, and there is no support that having two orthopedic experts who may testify to Plaintiff’s different injuries, even if there may be an overlap, would cloud the issues or confuse the jury. Further, Plaintiff’s contentions are premature. Plaintiff has not provided any specification as to which portion of the testimonies will be irrelevant or prejudicial when Plaintiff has yet to depose these experts. Speculation is not enough. Further, paying litigation costs is not a reason to strike a party’s expert. Lastly, the Court notes Defendant’s related motion to augment the anticipated testimony of its experts to formally distinguish and clarify the issue.  Accordingly, the motion to strike Defendant’s orthopedic experts is DENIED.   III. DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO AUGMENT EXPERT WITNESS LIST DESIGNATION CCP § 2034.610 governs motions to augment expert witness lists.  A party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information may move to add the name and address of a subsequently retained witness or to amend the statement of the testimony a previously designated expert is expected to give. The motion must be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented. (CCP §2034.610.)  CCP § 2034.620 states:   “The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:   The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.   The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.   The court has determined either of the following:   The moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.   The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:   Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony.   Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.   Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.”  Notably, granting or denial of relief in these cases lies within the court's sound discretion, and is subject to appellate review only for abuse of discretion. (Bonds v. Roy (1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 149.) Defendant argues that the parties timely exchanged expert witness information, and defense counsel identified two orthopedic experts, Dr. Korchek and Dr. Jaivin in its expert witness designation. Defendant avers that as a result of mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect, the specific distinctions of the general scope of testimony for Dr. Korchek and Dr. Jaivin in defense counsel’s declaration was not detailed enough such that the designation appeared to suggest that there would be duplicative testimony and evidence. Defendant therefore seeks to remedy the issue by augmenting the expert designation and expert witness declaration. Defense counsel declares they attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff, but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to defense counsel’s meet and confer e-mail, in which the proposed amended designation of expert witnesses with expert declaration was attached. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the parties met and conferred regarding the duplicative experts, and defense counsel stated that one was a specialist. Plaintiff argues Defendant may only be granted leave to amend if there has been a mistake or unexpected necessity. Plaintiff contends she has relied on the information and that she will be severely prejudiced if the scope is now changed.  Here, for the same reasons as provided in Plaintiff’s motion to strike, Plaintiff fails to articulate any prejudice. Plaintiff does not explain to what extent she has relied upon the list. Further, Plaintiff does not properly explain how Defendant narrowing the scope of the anticipated testimony, in order to distinguish between Dr. Korchek and Dr. Jaivin, would at all change the scope of the experts to prejudice Plaintiff. Both experts remain in the field of orthopedics, and the amendment would not propose any additional or different testimony, but rather narrow down the expected testimony. It also appears that Defendant sought leave to amend promptly after Plaintiff raised the issue of duplicative testimony via her motion to strike, and Plaintiff was served a copy of the proposed expert information.  Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for leave to augment its expert witness list designation is GRANTED.  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant’s orthopedic expert designation is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for leave to augment its expert witness list designation is GRANTED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of April 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  