  Case Number:  22STCV21509    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Iconic Hearts
  Holdings, Inc.


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV21509




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
NGL Labs LLC; et
  al. 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March
28, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
A. Leiter
Motions to Seal (2)
Moving Party: Plaintiff Iconic
Hearts Holdings, Inc. 
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO SEAL ARE GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
oppositions have been received. 
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal only
if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (CRC Rule 2.550(d).)  “The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.”  (CRC Rule
2.551(b)(1).)  
 
Discovery in this case
is governed by a Stipulation and Protective Order entered October 6, 2022. It
permits parties and third parties to designate documents or testimony as
“Confidential” if a party believes, in good faith, that the document or
testimony is entitled to confidential treatment under applicable law.
(Protective Order, ¶ 1.c.)  Paragraph 21
of the Protective Order requires: “If Confidential Materials, Highly
Confidential – Attorneys’ Eyes Only Materials, Highly Confidential – Source
Code Materials, or Information derived therefrom are submitted to or otherwise
disclosed to the Court in connection with [] motions and proceedings, the same
shall be separately filed under seal with the clerk of the Court in an envelope
….” (Protective Order, ¶ 21.)
 
Plaintiff moves to seal
the unredacted copy of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff seeks to
seal quotes from or references to documents that Defendants have designated as
“Confidential” or “Highly Confidential - Attorneys Eyes Only.” 
 
In a separate motion Plaintiff moves to seal Exhibits 3,
5-6, 21, and 27-28 to Defendants’ Evidence in support of Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment, as well as the portions of Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment and Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts that discuss the
substance of those exhibits that have been redacted from public filing, each of
which was conditionally lodged under seal on October 26, 2023. Plaintiff asserts
that these documents contain trade secrets and confidential business
information, which have been designated as “Confidential” or “Highly Confidential -
Attorneys Eyes Only.” 
 
 The Court agrees that public disclosure of this information is likely to harm
Plaintiff’s competitive standing. The requirements of CRC Rule 2.550(d) are
satisfied.   
 
Plaintiff’s motions are GRANTED.
 