 Case Number:  23STCV04166    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  61 DARYL GLOVER vs CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant City of Beverly Hills’ Motion to Compel Disclosure of Peace Officer Personnel Records of Plaintiff Daryl Glover from Nonparty Los Angeles Police Department is GRANTED. The court shall conduct an in camera inspection on a date convenient to the court.  Defendant to provide notice.DISCUSSIONEvid. Code section 1043, subd. (a) requires that a party seeking disclosure of police officer “personnel records” file a particular motion, a Pitchess motion. (Cf. Pitchess v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531.) “Personnel records” are defined as “primary records specific to each peace or custodial officer's employment, including evaluations, assignments, status changes, and imposed discipline.” (Pen. Code, § 832.5, subd (d)(1).) The Pitchess provisions “take precedence over the general discovery rules outlined in the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Davis v. City of Sacramento (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 393, 400.)  Evid. Code section 1043, subd. (b) details what a Pitchess motion shall include:(1) Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard. (2) A description of the type of records or information sought. [And] (3) Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the records.“A finding of ‘good cause’ under section 1043, subdivision (b) is only the first hurdle in the discovery process. Once good cause for discovery has been established, section 1045 provides that the court shall then examine the information ‘in chambers’ in conformity with section 915 (i.e., out of the presence of all persons except the person authorized to claim the privilege and such other persons as he or she is willing to have present), and shall exclude from disclosure several enumerated categories of information.” (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (“Santa Cruz”) (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83.) The excluded categories of information include, in criminal proceedings, “the conclusions of any officer investigating a complaint filed pursuant to section 832.5 of the Penal Code,” and otherwise include “[f]acts sought to be disclosed that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit.” (Evid. Code § 1045, subd. (b).)“Section 1043 clearly requires a showing of ‘good cause’ for discovery in two general categories: (1) the ‘materiality’ of the information or records sought to the “subject matter involved in the pending litigation,” and (2) a ‘reasonable belief’ that the governmental agency has the ‘type’ of information or records sought to be disclosed.” (Santa Cruz, supra, 49 Cal.3d at p. 83.) Courts have described that as a “relatively low threshold” for discovery, but have also noted that section 1045’s protective provisions offset that low threshold. (Id. at p. 83–84.)Defendant City of Beverly Hills (Defendant) seeks the following documents pertaining to Plaintiff Daryl Glover (Plaintiff) from nonparty Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) for use in its defense against Plaintiff’s employment discrimination claims:1. Documents in Plaintiff’s personnel file with LAPD reflecting his training records or records of performance-related discipline before and after Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant;2. Performance evaluations and records related to Plaintiff’s performance while with the LAPD;3. Records related to Plaintiff’s LAPD background check after reapplying to the LAPD in 2021; and4. Records relating to Plaintiff’s promotion after returning to the LAPD.(Motion at p. 2.)Good cause supports the documents sought. In employment cases, “defendants are generally entitled to discover plaintiff’s previous employer’s payroll records and personnel files (including performance evaluations).” (Chin et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Employment Litigation (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 19:684.) Indeed, “[e]vidence of the plaintiff's work history and earnings is a standard subject of discovery.” (Anderson v. Metalclad Insulation Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 284, 296 fn. 9.) And as Defendant notes in its motion, Plaintiff alleges his experience at LAPD as grounds for his qualifications to hold a position with Defendant, and further alleges attempts by Defendant officers to sabotage his rehiring process at LAPD after his departure from Defendant. (Motion at pp. 6–7; Complaint ¶ 17.)Though it has filed an opposition, LAPD does not oppose the production of any of the categories of documents sought, and merely reiterates the standards of disclosure applicable to Pitchess motions, while seeking the entry of a protective order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1045, subd. (e). (Opposition at pp. 3–5.)The motion is therefore GRANTED. The court shall conduct an in camera inspection to exclude irrelevant information and facts which are ‘so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit, pursuant to Evidence Code § 1045. Records disclosed or discovered in this fashion “may not be used for any purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.” (Evid. Code § 1045, subd. (e).) As done after the previous Pitchess in camera proceeding, any discoverable information will be ordered released pursuant to a protective order. 