 Case Number:  23STCV19207    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HECTOR GONZALEZ, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
RICHARD THOMAS KISSEL, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV19207
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  January 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Richard Thomas Kissel, Frances Kissel, and
Dolan & Knight Property Management, Inc. 
(collectively, “Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
The currently
operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”) alleges ten causes of action
arising out of a landlord/tenant relationship.  In relevant part, the SAC alleges: Plaintiffs
began leasing an apartment (the “Unit”) from Moving Defendants in 2016.  (SAC ¶ 25.) 
Throughout Plaintiffs’ tenancy, the Unit had habitability issues
including: severe rodent and pest infestations, deteriorating fixtures, faulty
electrical wiring, unsafe common areas, and nuisances.  (See SAC ¶¶ 29-53.)  Despite receiving notice of these conditions
on multiple occasions, Moving Defendants failed to properly address these
habitability concerns.  (See SAC
¶¶ 38-41, 48-49, 54, 56-59.)  In May
2023, Moving Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs for their complaints
about living conditions by initiating eviction proceedings.  (SAC ¶ 61.)
 
On November 28,
2023, Moving Defendants filed a motion to strike (the “Motion”) portions of the
SAC relating to punitive damages. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met.
 
Legal Standard
Under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any irrelevant,
false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading
or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)
 
Punitive
Damages        
A plaintiff may
recover punitive damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising
from contract when the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  Malice is conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.) 
Oppression is defined as despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  
 
The SAC
sufficiently alleges conduct that may entitle Plaintiffs to recover an award of
punitive damages, such as Moving Defendants’ repeated failure to address the
pervasive substandard conditions at the Property despite their awareness and
acknowledgement of the habitability problems.  (See See Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.)  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion.  
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 11th day of January 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 