 Case Number:  21STCV42481    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DR. PAYAM VAHEDIFAR, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRIAN PAYA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV42481
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO
  DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
Date: 
  January 11, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 29, 2024
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
This order concerns: (1) a motion for leave
to permit service by publication (the “Service Motion”); and (2) a motion for
determination of good faith settlement (the “Settlement Motion”).
 
MOVING PARTIES: (1) Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Brian Paya and Bita Paya (the “Paya Defendants”); (2) Defendants/Cross-Complainants
S & A Realty Corp. and Nina Hunt (collectively, the “S & A Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: (1) Plaintiffs; (2) the
Paya Defendants 
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a landlord/tenant relationship.  Plaintiffs’ complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1950.5; (2) statutory fraud or
deceit and common law fraud; (3) intentional misrepresentation; (4) negligent
misrepresentation; (5) fraudulent concealment; (6) negligence; (7) negligence
per se; (8) conversion; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) breach of contract;
(11) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (12)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq; (13) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (14) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; (15) unjust enrichment and restitution; (16) intentional interference
with contractual relations; and (17) conspiracy to breach contract and to
interfere with contractual relations.  
 
            On October 3, 2023, the
Paya Defendants filed the Service Motion to request leave to serve Cross-Defendant
Charles Krebs (“Krebs”) by publication. 
On November 28, 2023, the S & A Defendants filed the Settlement
Motion to request approval of a settlement agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) entered into by the S & A Defendants and Plaintiffs.
 
SERVICE BY PUBLICATION
Under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 415.50, subdivision (a). 
summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the
satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified
in this article and that either: (1) cause of action exists against the party
upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper party to
the action; or (2) the party to be served has or claims an interest in real or
personal property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of the
court or the relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in
excluding the party from any interest in the property.  (CCP § 415.50, subd. (a).) 
 
The Paya Defendants named Krebs as a
Cross-Defendant on May 22, 2023. 
(Declaration of Brian Paya (“Paya Decl.”) ¶ 2.)  The Paya Defendants have been unable to serve
Krebs by personal service or by mail, despite retaining a service that
conducted a skip trace of Krebs.  (See
Paya Decl. ¶¶ 5-9, Exhibit A.)  The
Paya Defendants wish to publish service in The Daily Breeze, a print
publication that circulates in the neighborhood of Krebs’s last known address
in the Pacific Palisades.  (See Paya Decl. ¶¶ 6, 15.)  
 
The Court finds that
the Leave Motion demonstrates the Paya Defendants’ inability to serve Krebs
despite their numerous attempts effect service. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Leave Motion.  
 
DETERMINATION OF GOOD
FAITH SETTLEMENT
Under
CCP section 877, a release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant
not to sue or not to enforce judgment is given in good faith before verdict or
judgment to one or more of a number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the
same tort reduces the claims against other defendants in the amount stipulated
by the release, the dismissal or the covenant, or in the amount of the
consideration paid for it, whichever is the greater, and discharges the party
to whom it is given from all liability for any contribution to any other
parties.  (CCP § 877, subds.
(a)-(b).)  A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith bars any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6, subd. (c).)  The party asserting the lack of good faith has
the burden of proof on that issue.  (CCP
§ 877.6, subd. (d).)
 
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (“Tech-Bilt”), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors for courts to consider in determining if a settlement is
in good faith under CCP section 877.6: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.  (Id.) 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is
required to be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.  (Id.)  A defendant’s settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.  (Id.)
 
The
party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that
issue should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute. 
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a “settlement made in good faith” within the terms of CCP section 877.6.  (Id. at
499-500.)
 
In
addition to considering the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the
plaintiff, the court must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.  (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)  
 
The
court in City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, provided the following guidance for evaluating a motion
for good faith settlement determination:
“This
court notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination
presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are
unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court.  At the time of filing in many cases, the
moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each motion required a full recital by
declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response to all of
the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be
consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial
courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and
clients’ resources. . . . That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.  If the good faith
settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good
faith on the contesting party.  Once
there is a showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof
on the issue of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the
settlement was not made in good faith.  If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.”
 
(City
of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-61 (internal
citations omitted).)
 
            In support of the Settlement Motion, the S & A
Defendants provide evidence of the Settlement Agreement entered into with
Plaintiffs in August 2023.  (Declaration
of Brianda Herrera (“Herrera Decl.”) ¶ 2, Exhibit A.)  The Settlement Agreement was entered into
after arms’ length settlement negotiations and provides that the S & A
Defendants agree to pay $76,000 to Plaintiffs in exchange for dismissal of
Plaintiffs’ claims.  (See Herrera
Decl. ¶ 4.)  The settlement amount, which
is more than twice the amount of the $30,000 security deposit at issue in the
Complaint, is intended to avoid the costs and uncertainty associated with
trial.  (Herrera Decl. ¶ 8.)  
 
            The Paya Defendants’ opposition (the “Settlement
Opposition”) does not clearly articulate why the Settlement Motion should be
denied.  Nor does the Motion present
evidence that the Settlement Agreement was not entered into in good faith.[1]
 
            The Court finds that the Settlement Agreement was entered
into in good faith and therefore GRANTS the Settlement Motion. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        Dated this 11th day of January 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 


