  Case Number:  22STCV08835    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 MICHELSON
  LABORATORIES, INC.; GRANT MICHELSON; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV08835
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR PRODUCTION
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION TESTIMONY
  
 
Date: December 24, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action was filed on March 11, 2022. On
May 1, 2024, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative fourth
amended complaint against Defendants California Immediate Medical Center (“SCIMC”),
Thomas Roccapalumbo (“Roccapalumbo”), Rong Yang, Joseph Soliz (“Soliz”), and
Does 1-50, (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1) invasion
of privacy against all SCIMC, Soliz, and Does 1-50; (2) sexual battery against Soliz;
and (3) negligent hiring and retention against SCIMC, Roccapalumbo, and Does 1-50.
Plaintiff alleges that Soliz sexually assaulted her during an X-ray appointment
at SCIMC. 
 
            On October 8, 2024 Plaintiff filed: (1)
a motion to compel Soliz to provide further responses to special
interrogatories (“SIs”) (the “SIs Motion”); and (2) a motion to compel Soliz to
provide further responses to requests for production of documents (“RFPs”) (the
“RFPs Motion”). Soliz filed an opposition to the SIs Motion on December 10,
2024 (the “Opposition to SIs Motion”) and an opposition to the RFPs Motion (the
“Opposition to RFPs Motion”) on December 11, 2024. Plaintiff filed replies to
each (the “Reply to SIs Motion” and the “Reply to RFPs Motion”) on December 11,
2024. 
 
            On October 11, 2024, Soliz filed a
motion to compel further deposition testimony of Plaintiff (the “Deposition
Motion”). On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition
to Deposition Motion”) and on December 17, 2024, Soliz filed a reply (the
“Reply to Deposition Motion”). 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The
parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.  
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL
FURTHER SIs AND RFPs 
            A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”), § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 403.)
 
To compel a further response to
interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the responding party’s answer to
a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete (CCP, § 2030.300, subd.
(a)(1)); (2) the responding party’s exercise of the option to produce documents
in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or the required specification
of those documents was inadequate (CCP, § 2030.300, subd. (a)(2)); and (3) the
responding party’s objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general (CCP, § 2030.300, subd. (a)(3); see, e.g., Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 [defendant’s argument that plaintiff was
required to establish good cause or prove merits of underlying claim before
propounding interrogatories without merit]).
 
To request further production, a movant
must establish: (1) good cause for the production (CCP, § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that a further
response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of compliance
with the demand to produce is incomplete CCP, § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b)
the responding party’s representation that it is unable to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive (CCP, § 2031.310, subd. (a)(2)), (c) the
responding party’s objection in the response is without merit or is too general
(CCP, § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or (d) if the responding party objected to
the production of ESI on the ground that it is not reasonably accessible the
movant can show that the (i) ESI is reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good
cause for production of the ESI regardless of its accessibility (CCP, §
2031.310, subd. (e)).
 
SIs No. 1
            SIs No. 1 states: “Please list all
addresses at which you have lived for the last 10 years.” (SIs Motion, Ex. A)
Soliz responded: “Objection. This interrogatory is invasive of Defendant’s
privacy in violation of the United States Constitution and California
Constitution, Article 1. This interrogatory seeks information that is irrelevant
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as
follows: Responding party can be reached and/or served through his counsel of
record in this matter.” (SIs Motion, Ex. B)  
 
RFPs No. 3
            RFP No. 3 states: “Please produce a
copy of your picture ID.” (RFPs Motion, Ex. A.)
Soliz
responded “Objection. Vague, ambiguous, and overbroad. In addition this request
invades the individual’s privacy as protected by the Constitutions of the
United States and California and violates State and Federal privacy laws. Based
on the above-mentioned objections no documents will be provided.” (RFPs Motion,
Ex. B.)
 
The Court finds that the objections are
without merit. Soliz does not provide any legal authority suggesting that a
defendant in a sexual assault action has a protected privacy right in his past
addresses or photo ID. The information is relevant to Plaintiff’s negligent
hiring and retention cause of action because it may lead to evidence that, had Defendants
screened Soliz before hiring him, such screening would have revealed
information that his employment posed a particular risk of sexual assault.  
 
            Thus, Plaintiff’s motions are
GRANTED. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER DEPOSITION TESTIMONY  
            In any civil action alleging conduct
that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any
party seeking discovery concerning the plaintiff's sexual conduct with
individuals other than the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts
showing that there is good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought
to be discovered is relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (CCP § 2017.220,
subd. (a); Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 843 [“In a
civil suit alleging conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault,
or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery concerning the plaintiff's
sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator must
establish specific facts showing good cause for that discovery, and that the
inquiry is relevant to the subject matter and reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.]”.) Thus, the party seeking to discover a
plaintiff’s sexual conduct with other individuals must establish not only
general relevance, but also specific facts showing good cause for the discovery.
 
            Soliz moves for an order permitting
further deposition questioning into Plaintiff’s sexual assault allegation that
occurred when she was a minor at Camp Joseph Scott. (Deposition Motion, p.
7:7-9) In response to FIs, Plaintiff stated that the alleged incident with
Soliz “was the first and only time in my life that I had been sexually
assaulted.” (Deposition Motion, Ex. B [response to FIs No. 6.2].) Plaintiff
testified during her deposition, however, that “I was in camp when I was a
minor, and something happened to me when I was a juvenile” and that she had a
current lawsuit regarding an alleged sexual assault that occurred at Camp
Joseph Scott when she was 13. (Deposition Motion, Ex. E, pp. 80:17-81:2, 85:15-86:25)
Soliz argues that permitting discovery into the incident at Camp Joseph Scott and
other previous sexual assaults is relevant to Plaintiff’s credibility in this
case regarding her claim that all her emotional distress damages are a result
of the alleged assault by Soliz. 
 
            In the Opposition to the Deposition
Motion, Plaintiff relies on Evidence Code section 783; however, that statute is
not relevant here because it pertains to admissibility, not discoverability.
(See Evidence Code §§ 780-783.) 
 
The Court agrees that testimony about the
incident at Camp Joseph Scott is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence regarding Plaintiff’s claims that the incident with
Soliz caused her damages. Thus, the Court will permit Soliz to conduct further deposition
questioning only about the incident at Camp Joseph Scott but will not allow
questioning about ‘any other assaults.’  Thus,
the Deposition Motion is GRANTED. 
 
ORDER
 
The Motion to Compel Further Response to
Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
The Motion to Compel Further Response to
Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
Soliz is ordered to provide further verified,
Code-compliant responses within 20 days of this order.          
The
Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony is GRANTED. Soliz is permitted to
conduct additional deposition questioning consistent with the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 24th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



