  Case Number:  20STCV3217    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)        OSC re:
Dismissal
 
            Plaintiff
Terra Ocean now moves this court to issue an Order to Show Cause re: Dismissal
of this entire action.
 
Decision
 
            The ex
parte is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
Terra Ocean represents that its interest in the lease has been transferred to Cross-Defendant
CB 1733. Therefore, it no longer has standing to pursue its case, and believes that
no case can be pursued against it. Plaintiff Terra Ocean also believes that no
case can be pursed against Cross-Defendant CB 1733.
 
            Plaintiff
Terra Ocean is the master of its complaint. It may dismiss that complaint at
any time. Likewise, Plaintiff Terra Ocean may move to dismiss the
cross-complaint against it; in fact, it may not need to do so, as the papers
filed by the Landlord indicate that the Landlord may be willing to dismiss Terra
Ocean from the Cross-Complaint.
 
            However,
Terra Ocean may not make a motion to dismiss on behalf of another party. If
Cross-Defendant CB 1733 believes the case should be dismissed, it can file its
own paperwork and make its own motions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
Terra Ocean may dismiss its complaint without the involvement of the court. If
the Landlord refuses to dismiss the Cross-Complaint against Terra Ocean, then
Terra Ocean may file a noticed motion. Finally, Terra Ocean may not represent Cross-Defendant
CB 1733. Therefore, the ex parte is DENIED pursuant to California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1202(c).
 
(2)        Leave to
Amend
 
            Cross-Complainant
Landlord now moves this court for orders (1) granting leave to amend the
Cross-Complaint to add Cross-Defendant CB 1733 in lieu of ROE 1 (2) continuing
the hearings on the Motions for Summary Judgment.
 
Decision
 
            The request
for leave to amend is DENIED as MOOT.
 
            The request
to re-set the Motions for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            The trial date,
final status conference date, and reserved date for a Motion for Leave to Amend
are all VACATED. The court sets a Trial Setting Conference on December 11, 2023,
at 8:30 am.
 
Discussion
 
            Cross-Complainant
Landlord does not need leave of court to substitute Cross-Defendant CB 1733 in
lieu of ROE 1. That substitution was effectuated on October 24, 2023, by the
filing of the “Amendment to Cross-Complaint” form. If Cross-Defendant CB 1733
believes that this amendment does not comport with Code of Civil Procedure § 474,
it may bring the appropriate motion or pleading. But as of this moment,
Cross-Defendant CB 1733 is already a named Cross-Defendant in this case. No further
action (other than the issuance of summons) is required from this court.
 
            The Motions
for Summary Judgment may not be continued because they have already been taken
off-calendar by the parties. There are no pending motions of that nature before
this court. Should counsel wish to make such a motion, they must reserve their
date and file their papers in the manner required by the Code of Civil
Procedure and Rules of Court.
 
            The departure
of Terra Ocean, and the entrance of CB 1733, sufficiently disturb the posture
of this case as to require a continuance of the trial. See California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1332(c)(5)&(7). Cross-Defendant CB 1733 has counsel, who has
offered oral argument before this court, but it is undisputed that CB 1733 has
yet to be properly and formally served. Even should they be served tomorrow
(November 1), their answer would not be due until November 30, 2023, three days
after the Final Status Conference and a mere 11 days before trial.
 
            Maintaining
the current trial date would be both unfair and unworkable. Cross-Defendant CB
1733 should have a chance to receive proper service, take stock of the case,
meet and confer with opposing counsel, and evaluate what kind of time they
might need to get ready. Since the parties were already coming in on December
11, 2023, that would be an appropriate return date.
 
Conclusion
 
            The request
for leave to amend is MOOT. The request to re-set the Motions for Summary
Judgment is DENIED, as there are no such motions on the court’s calendar.
However, because there is a manifest need for a different trial date, and because
Cross-Defendant CB 1733 will need to be served and evaluate the case, the
pending trial date, final status conference date, and reserved date for a
Motion for Leave to Amend are all VACATED. The court sets a Trial Setting
Conference on December 11, 2023, at 8:30 am.