 Case Number:  BC616980    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BIFURCATEI.        INTRODUCTION
          This action was filed on April 14,
2016, and arises from a business dispute that occurred on April 16, 2014,
resulting in a physical altercation and ultimately, the shooting of Plaintiffs
Arutyun Fitilchyan (Fitilchan), Hrachya Gasparyan (Gasparyan) and Defendant
Robert Torosian (Robert). 
Plaintiffs Fitilchyan, Galina Azumanova, Gasparyan, and
Marine Hovhannisyan filed a complaint against Defendants Akop Torosian aka Jack
Torosian (Akop), and Robert. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
assault and battery, (2) conspiracy, (3) negligence, (4) loss of consortium,
and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The complaint alleges that Fitilchyan was contacted by Akop
to perform locksmith services for him. Fitilchyan alleges he was on his way to
deliver brochures and schedule the service when he ran low on fuel. On
telephoning Akop about his tardiness, Akop began to verbally abuse Fitilchyan,
which caused Fitilchyan to decide he was no longer willing to provide the
services. Fitilchyan alleges that after this he went to visit his friend
Gasparyan at his body shop. Fitilchyan alleges that while the two were having
coffee at the body shop, Akop showed up and proceeded to scream obscenities at
him and the two of them got into a scuffle which body shop employees broke up.
Fitilchyan alleges Akop left but then returned with his brother Robert, who
charged Fitilchyan and struck him with his fist. He alleges that Akop then
produced a gun and began shooting at them, in response to which Gasparyan
retrieved a gun and returned fire. 
On September 6, 2024, Akop filed this motion to bifurcate. On
September 19, 2024, Robert filed a joinder. No opposition has been filed.
II. LEGAL STANDARD
Civil Code, Section 3295, subdivision (d) provides:  
 
“The court
shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of
that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to
the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”  
 
(Id.) 
 
Subdivision (a) of that same section provides: 
 
(a) The
court may, for good cause, grant any defendant a protective order requiring the
plaintiff to produce evidence of a prima facie case of liability for damages
pursuant to Section 3294, prior to the introduction of evidence of: 
(1) The
profits the defendant has gained by virtue of the wrongful course of conduct of
the nature and type shown by the evidence. 
(2) The
financial condition of the defendant. 
(Id.)  
          III.     DISCUSSION
Akop moves for bifurcation of trial in two phases: the first
phase to determine liability, compensatory damages, and whether he was guilty
of malice, and the second phase to determine the amount of punitive damages.
Akop also requests that the Court issue a protective order prohibiting any
counsel or witness from mentioning or disclosing his financial status until the
second phase of trial.  
 
Akop states there is good cause for the Court to issue a
protective order because the causes of action do not require evidence of his
financial condition or his profits and the evidence may prejudice the jury.
(See Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 1220, 1241, stating there is a presumption that “evidence of a
defendant's wealth can induce fact finders to abandon their objectivity and
return a verdict based on passion and prejudice.”)  
 
Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition to indicate there is
no good cause.  
 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
          The motion to
bifurcate is GRANTED as to both Defendants.
          Defendants are
to give notice of this ruling.
           
Dated:  October 3, 2024                          
                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     