 Case Number:  23GDCV00630    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT VAHE KHACHATRYAN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE  CROSS-COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION           This is a tort action  arising from a Homeowner’s Association (“HOA”) dispute. Plaintiffs Maureen Gonzalez and Kathleen Lemke (“Plaintiffs”)  sued Defendants Central Park North Association (“CPN”), Bonnie Hartounian  (“Hartounian”), George Gevorgyani (“Gevorgyani”), Bella Nazarian (“Nazarian”),  and Vahe Khachatryan (“Khachatryan”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on March 28,  2023, alleging causes of action for (1) fraud; (2) negligence; (3) breach of fiduciary  Duty; (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5) negligent infliction  of emotional distress.  On December 7,  2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Plaintiffs  allege that CPN manages their condominium complex located at 1422 Central Ave.,  Glendale 91202 (“Complex”).  Defendants  Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian (collectively, “CPN Defendants”) sit on  CPN’s Board.  Plaintiffs own Unit 2  within the Complex (“Plaintiffs’ Unit”).  Defendant Khachatryan is Plaintiffs’ upstairs neighbor.   According to the SAC, the parties’  dispute began when Khachatryan hired an unlicensed contractor to perform  construction work on his own condominium.  The contractor’s sub-par work caused damage to  Plaintiffs’ Unit.  Plaintiffs allege that  the CPN Defendants interfered with Plaintiffs’ efforts to repair their Unit,  including by obstructing access to the HOA’s insurance funds.           On June 20, 2023, CPN Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint  against Defendant Khachatryan, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnity and  (2) contribution.           On January 3, 2024, CPN Defendants filed their Answer to  SAC and on January 8, 2024, Defendant Khachatryan filed his Answer to the SAC.           On August 19, 2024, Defendant Khachatryan filed the instant  Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint (“Motion”).  On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a  response.  Defendants have not opposed  the Motion, and no reply has been filed.   On September 11, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the Motion and  requested that Defendant Khachatryan file an amended Motion and the  cross-complaint prior to the next scheduled hearing.  No additional papers have been filed.           On August 20, 2024, the Court granted the CPN Defendants’  Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement as to the settlement executed  by Plaintiffs and Defendants CPN, Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian.  Subsequently, on September 30, 2024,  Plaintiffs dismissed Defendants CPN, Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian from  the Complaint with prejudice.           On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Quash  Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Records, scheduled for hearing on October  3, 2024.           On September 11, 2024, pursuant to the Stipulation of the  parties, the Court continued the jury trial scheduled for September 30, 2024,  to October 15, 2024. II.      LEGAL  STANDARD “A party against whom a  cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a  cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following: (a) Any cause of action  he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint  against him… (b) Any cause of action  he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such  person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his  cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series  of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts  a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject  of the cause brought against him. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)  After the trial date has been set, a party  seeking to file a cross-complaint must obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) A cross-complaint may be  either compulsory or permissive.  Compulsory  cross-complaints are those involving causes of action that arise out of the  same transactions or occurrences as the causes of action which the plaintiff  alleges in his or her complaint.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  To be  considered compulsory, the causes of action must exist at the time an answer to  the original cross-complaint is required.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30. subd. (a).)  All other cross-complaints are permissive.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)  Failure to bring a compulsory cross-complaint  results in waiver of the right to bring the causes of action in a separate  action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) If the proposed  cross-complaint is permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interest  of justice” at any time during the course of the action. (Code Civ. Proc. §  428.50, subd. (c).)  On the other hand,  if the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory, then leave must be granted so  long as the defendant is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)¿ “The legislative mandate  is clear.  A policy of liberal  construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is  imposed on the trial court.  A motion to  file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be  granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture  would otherwise result.”  (Silver  Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)  Bad faith involves conduct, not prompted by  an honest mistake, oversight, or neglect, but by some sinister motive or conscious  wrongdoing because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity.  (Id. at 99-100.)  Bad faith contemplates a state  of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.  ¿(Ibid.) III.     ANALYSIS           A. Discussion           Defendant Khachatryan moves for an order granting leave to  file a cross-complaint against CPN Defendants on the grounds that he recently  took the deposition of non-party James Harvey from Maurehan Plumbing, which has  given rise to a theory of comparative fault.  (Gonter Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. B.)  Defendant Khachatryan contends that he did not  have adequate information concerning the subject incident at the time he filed  his Answer.  Defendant Khachatryan further  contends that the cross-complaint will not cause any additional expense or  burden on discovery as it only pertains to indemnification, apportionment of  fault, and declaratory relief.  He asserts  that the relative facts involved are the same and he has acted in good faith by  diligently conducting discovery, which has now resulted in him seeking leave to  file the proposed cross-complaint.            Neither  Plaintiffs nor CPN Defendants filed a formal opposition to the present motion.  However, Plaintiffs filed a response and  request that the Cross-Complaint be severed to preserve the trial date  preference.           Prior to the September 11, 2024, hearing on this same  motion, the Court posted an order tentatively granting Defendant Khachatryan’s  motion for leave to amend.  However, at  the hearing, Counsel for the CPN raised an issue that the Court had not  considered.  Counsel argued that due to  the Court’s prior approval of the good faith settlement application by the CPN  Defendants (which Defendant Khachatryan had not opposed), Defendant Khachatryan  was now foreclosed from proceeding with an indemnity cause of action against  those parties.  The Court then realized  that Defendant had failed to attach a proposed cross-complaint to his motion.  As such, the Court could not determine which  parties Defendant Khachatryan sought to proceed against or what his proposed  cause(s) of action were.  Therefore, the  Court continued this hearing to today’s date and asked that Defendant  Khachatryan submit a supplemental motion addressing these issues as well as  provide a copy of the proposed cross-complaint.   Defendant Khachatryan has failed to do so.  It is impossible for the Court to determine  whether Defendant Khachatryan’s proposed cross-complaint is legally permissible  under Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6.    Therefore, Court denies the  Motion. IV.     CONCLUSION  AND ORDER           Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant Vahe Khachatryan’s  Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint.           Plaintiff is to give notice of this order.    Dated:  October 3, 2024                                                                                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS FOR THE
PRODUCTION OF RECORDSI.         INTRODUCTION            This is a tort action arising from a Homeowner’s Association (“HOA”)
dispute.  Plaintiffs Maureen
Gonzalez and Kathleen Lemke (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Central Park North
Association (“CPN”), Bonnie Hartounian (“Hartounian”), George Gevorgyani
(“Gevorgyani”), Bella Nazarian (“Nazarian”), and Vahe Khachatryan (“Khachatryan”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) on March 28, 2023, alleging causes of action for
(1) fraud; (2) negligence; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) intentional infliction
of emotional distress; and (5) negligent infliction of emotional distress.  On December 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).Plaintiffs allege that CPN manages
their condominium complex located at 1422 Central Ave., Glendale 91202
(“Complex”).  Defendants Hartounian,
Gevorgyani, and Nazarian (collectively, “CPN Defendants”) sit on CPN’s Board.  Plaintiffs own Unit 2 within the Complex
(“Plaintiffs’ Unit”).  Defendant
Khachatryan is Plaintiffs’ upstairs neighbor.  According to the SAC, the parties’ dispute
began when Khachatryan hired an unlicensed contractor to perform construction
work on his own condominium.  The
contractor’s sub-par work caused damage to Plaintiffs’ Unit.  Plaintiffs allege that the CPN Defendants
interfered with Plaintiffs’ efforts to repair their Unit, including by
obstructing access to the HOA’s insurance funds.            On June 20,
2023, CPN Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Defendant Khachatryan,
alleging causes of action for (1) indemnity and (2) contribution.            On January
3, 2024, CPN Defendants filed their Answer to SAC, and on January 8, 2024,
Defendant Khachatryan filed his Answer to the SAC.            On August
19, 2024, Defendant Khachatryan filed a Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint.  On September 11, 2024,
the Court continued the hearing on the Motion to October 3, 2024.            On August
20, 2024, the Court granted the CPN Defendants’ Application for Determination
of Good Faith Settlement as to the settlement executed by Plaintiffs and Defendants
CPN, Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian. 
Subsequently, on September 30, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed Defendants
CPN, Hartounian, Gevorgyani, and Nazarian from the Complaint with prejudice.            On August
26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for
Production of Records (“Motion”).  No
opposition has been filed.            On
September 11, 2024, pursuant to the Stipulation of the parties, the Court
continued the jury trial scheduled for September 30, 2024, to October 15, 2024.II.        LEGAL STANDARDCode of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides,(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.III.      ANALYSIS            Plaintiffs Gonzalez
and Lemke move for an order quashing Defendant Khachatryan’s deposition
subpoenas for the production of Plaintiffs’ insurance records from Allstate
Insurance Company (“Allstate”).            Plaintiffs
argue that these records are protected by Insurance Code section 791.13, the
attorney work-product doctrine, and are not relevant or likely to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.            According
to Plaintiffs’ counsel Michael D. Gonzalez, Plaintiffs’ insurance carrier
Allstate was secondary to the HOA’s insurance policy held on Plaintiff
Gonzalez’s behalf.  (Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 3.)  Allstate did not provide coverage for the
damages incurred by Plaintiffs in this action. 
(Ibid.)  On August 7, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel learned that Defendant Khachatryan had subpoenaed records
from Allstate related to Plaintiffs.  (Id.
at ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  Plaintiffs did not
provide authorization and object to production of their insurance records.  (Id. at ¶ 5.)  In their responses to Defendant Khachatryan’s
Request for Production of Documents, Plaintiffs had already provided a copy of
correspondence from Allstate denying coverage for the damages incurred by
Plaintiffs.  (Id. at ¶ 6, Ex.
B.)  All other communications between
counsel Gonzalez and Allstate were made in preparation for trial and there is
no additional information Defendant would need from Allstate.  (Ibid.)  Moreover, these insurance records are not
relevant to this case or likely to lead to discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Id. at ¶ 7.)  Given that Allstate denied coverage, as a
secondary insurance to the HOA, Plaintiffs paid for repairs out-of-pocket, and presented
receipts of these costs to Defendant.  (Id.
at ¶ 8.)  Furthermore, counsel Gonzalez
has attempted to meet and confer with Defendant Khachatryan’s counsel regarding
the instant Motion, but has not received a response.  (Id. at ¶¶ 9-10, Ex. C.)            Defendant
Khachatryan has not opposed the Motion.            First,
Insurance Code section 791.13 provides, in part, that an insurance institution
shall not disclose any personal or privileged information about an individual
collected or received in connection with an insurance transaction unless the
disclosure is with the written authorization of the individual or in response
to a facially valid administrative or judicial order, including a search
warrant or subpoena.  (Ins. Code., §
791.13, subd. (a), (h).)  Here, the
records are being sought through a subpoena and, thus, may be exempt from the
protections of section 791.13.            Second, Code
of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 permits a party to “obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter .
. . if the matter is either itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  According to a leading treatise, “For
discovery purposes, information should be regarded as ‘relevant’ to the subject
matter if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing
for trial, or facilitating settlement.  [Gonzalez
v. Sup.Ct. (City of San Fernando) (1995) 33 CA4th 1539, 1546, 39
CR2d 896, 901 (citing text); Lipton v. Sup.Ct. (Lawyers' Mut. Ins.
Co.) (1996) 48 CA4th 1599, 1611, 56 CR2d 341, 347 (citing text); Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 CA4th 1006, 1013, 105 CR2d 115,
120 (citing text)].” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2022), ¶8:66.1.)            Here,
Plaintiffs claim that the records are not relevant and are protected by the
attorney work product doctrine.  “The
party asserting the privilege only needs to present facts which ‘support a
prima facie claim of privilege.’”  (OXY
Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.)  After the objecting party meets the burden to
show preliminary facts in support of the privilege, “the burden shifts to the
party opposing the privilege to show either the claimed privilege does not
apply, an exception exists, or there has been an express or implied waiver.”  (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.)The attorney work product doctrine
is codified in section 2018.020 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides
in relevant part,It is the policy of the state to do
both of the following:(a) Preserve the rights of
attorneys to prepare cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to
encourage them to prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only
the favorable but the unfavorable aspects of those cases.(b) Prevent attorneys from taking
undue advantage of their adversary's industry and efforts.(Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.020.)Furthermore, “[t]he work product of
an attorney, other than a writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (b).)  “Any
writing that reflects an attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories shall not be discoverable under any
circumstances."  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2018.030, subd. (a).)  “The work product
rule in California creates for the attorney a qualified privilege against
discovery of general work product and an absolute privilege against disclosure
of writings containing the attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions or
legal theories."  (BP Alaska
Exploration, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1246, 1250.)            The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have presented sufficient evidence to show that their
insurance records with Allstate are not likely to lead to discoverable evidence
and that these records are protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.  Defendant has not opposed the Motion or shown
that he would be prejudiced if the Motion was granted.            For these
reasons, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for
Production of Records.IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Based on
the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs Maureen Gonzalez and Kathleen
Lemke’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Records.            Plaintiffs
to give notice of this order.  Dated:  October 3, 2024                        JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT







































































                                                                                                                                                       