  Case Number:  23STCP02369    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  82 Niloufar Ghafouri
v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Case No.
23STCP02369
 
Order Dismissing
Claims against Priscilla Hernandez and Terance Newman with Prejudice
 
Order Dismissing
Claims against the City of Los Angeles without Prejudice
 
Order Transferring
Case to Department One for Reassignment
 
 
            Petitioner
Niloufar Ghafouri (“Petitioner”) filed the operative first amended petition for
writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief on August
9, 2023.  Petitioner asserted a claim for
writ of mandate, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief (the “writs causes
of action”) against the City of Los Angeles (the “City”), and Priscilla
Hernandez and Terance Newman (the “individual respondents”).  
 
            On October
23, 2023, the individual respondents filed a cross-complaint against
Petitioner.  The individual respondents
asserted claims for conversion and civil theft. 
The individual respondents requested a jury trial. 
 
            On February
21, 2024, the court (Beckloff, J.) sustained the individual respondents’
demurrer to the writs causes of action.  (See
Court’s Order, dated February 21, 2024.) 
Judge Beckloff sustained the demurrer without leave to amend to the
extent the writs causes of action are based on Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  (See id. at 6.)  The court granted leave to amend to allow
Petitioner to allege a declaratory relief claim based on some civil claim other
than section 1085.  (See ibid.)  Petitioner did not file an amended
complaint.  
 
            At the
hearing on June 17, 2024, Petitioner’s counsel made an oral request to dismiss
the entire petition and all respondents without prejudice, and to transfer the
cross-complaint to an individual calendar court.  The court granted the motion but stayed the
order because counsel for the individual respondents was not able to attend the
hearing.  To afford sufficient notice and
opportunity to be heard, the court authorized counsel for the individual
respondents to file a motion for reconsideration.
 
            The
individual respondents have done so, requesting that the court dismiss them
with prejudice (instead of without prejudice). 
The individual respondents are entitled to that remedy.  “[A] dismissal without prejudice is not
available if the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend, or if the
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend but the plaintiff fails to file an
amended complaint within the time allotted to do so.”  (Metabyte, Inc. v. Technicolor S.A. (2023) 94
Cal.App.5th 265, 275.)  Petitioner’s
counsel has not filed any opposition to this motion. 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court orders that all causes of
action in the operative petition for writ of mandate against the individual
respondents—Priscilla Hernandez and Terance Newman—shall be dismissed with
prejudice.
 
            2.         The court orders that all causes of
action in the operative petition for writ of mandate against the City of Los
Angeles shall be dismissed without prejudice.
 
            3.         Because the cross-complaint asserts
non-writs causes of action—conversion and civil fraud—and requests a jury
trial, the court orders that this case shall be transferred to Department One
for reassignment to an independent calendar court.  
 
            4.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 