 Case Number:  23STCV28504    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is
highly encouraged).  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV28504




MOTION


Motion for Trial Preference 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jesus Carrasco 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC and Kattya Liliana
  Juarez 



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Jesus Carrasco (“Plaintiff”)
moves for an order granting a preferential trial date in this action, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) (“Section 36(a)”), for
trial within 120 days from the date of this hearing. Defendants Macy’s Retail
Holdings, LLC and Kattya Liliana Juarez (“Defendants”) oppose and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
A Non-Jury Trial is currently set
for May 20, 2025, one (1) year and 28 days from the hearing on April 22, 2024. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party to a civil action who is
over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court
shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) [t]he party
has a substantial interest in the action as a whole[; and] (2) [t]he health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subdivision (a).) 
 
A motion made under Section 36(a) “may
be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration ‘based upon
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.’
[Citation.]” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534,
citing Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5 [“[a]n affidavit in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].) The affidavit may also consist
entirely of hearsay and conclusions. (Id.)
 
If the court makes the requisite
finding of fact on a motion for preference under Code of Civil Procedure
section 36, subdivision (a), it has no discretion to deny the motion due to the
use of the word “shall” in the statute. (See Peters v. Superior Court (1989)
212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224-25; see also Rice v. Superior Court (1982) 136
Cal.App.3d 81, 89-94.) “Failure to complete discovery or other pre-trial
matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial preference for
those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a) of section 36.”
(Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 (“Swaithes”).)
“The trial court has no power to balance the differing interests of opposing
litigants in applying the provision.” (Ibid.)
 
The courts have not decided on the
due process implications of Code Civ. Proc., section 36. (Peters v. Superior
Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 227.) Although the Swaithes court
briefly acknowledged that trial preference may operate to truncate the
discovery rights of other parties, the provisions of section 36 remain
mandatory. (Swaithes, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1086.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff is
over 70 years of age and has a substantial interest in the action as a whole,
but has not established that Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  The declaration submitted in support of the
motion does not explain why Plaintiff’s substantial interest in this case would
be prejudiced. Plaintiff’s attorney declares that Plaintiff is 82 years old and
suffered injuries in this matter. (Papanikolas Decl. ¶ 2–4.) While the declaration
states that Plaintiff suffers from anemia and stage four prostate cancer that
requires follow ups every 2-3 months, it does not set forth facts regarding
Plaintiff’s prognosis.  
 
As a result, the declaration
in support of the motion does not provide a factual basis for the Court to find
that the health of the Plaintiff is such that a preference is necessary.
 
However, in light of the
nature of the case, and taking into account Plaintiff’s age and health issues,
the Court advances the trial date. The parties shall work diligently and
cooperatively to prepare the matter for trial. There shall be no further
continuance absent sufficient good cause. All discovery and motion deadlines
shall be associated with the new trial date.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff Jesus
Carrasco’s motion for trial preference is DENIED.
 
            Trial is advanced to December
16, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
            The Final Status
Conference is advanced to December 2, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of
such. 
 
 
 