  Case Number:  20STCV48002    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV48002




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff to Appear for Physical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Fatameh Shamie and Mohammed
  Shamie 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 16, 2020, Plaintiff Douglas
Da Silva McGlew (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Fatameh
Shamie, Mohammed Shamie, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor
vehicle accident. 
 
            Defendants
Fatameh Shamie and Mohammed Shamie (“Defendants”) now move to compel Plaintiff
to appear for a physical examination. Defendants also seek monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Edna Wenning does not detail an effort to meet and confer
prior to filing this motion. Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has not
been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff has alleged physical injuries based on a motor vehicle
accident. (Complaint ¶ 11–12.) 
 
On December 12, 2023, Defendants served a Demand for Physical
Examination on Plaintiff, setting an examination for January 31, 2024 with
Brian Grossman, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon. (Wenning Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On
January 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney responded that Plaintiff could not
attend. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) Plaintiff did not appear for the examination
and did not serve an objection. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
Plaintiff does not oppose this motion and therefore does not argue
that the proposed examination is over 75 miles from his residence. Based on the
Demand provided, the examination does not appear to contain any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (Exh. A.) Therefore, the motion to compel Plaintiff’s attendance
at the physical examination with Dr. Grossman is granted. 
 
Defendants seek $561.65 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and/or
his counsel of record, representing a $250 hourly rate and the $61.65 filing
fee. However, the Court denies the request for sanctions since no meet and
confer took place. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Fatameh Shamie and Mohammed Shamie’s motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for a
physical examination is GRANTED.  Plaintiff
shall appear for an examination with Dr. Grossman within 30 days.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 