 Case Number:  22STCV27077    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 6/28/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV27077 JORDAN SAUNDERS,
et al. vs SETH MEYERS
Moving Party: Defendant Seth Meyers
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Jordan Saunders, George Heinen and Damon Jackson
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
 
TERMINATING SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AGAINST
PLAINTIFF DAMON JACKSON AND JORDAN SAUNDERS

SANCTIONS ARE DENIED AGAINST PLAINTIFF GEORGE
HEINEN
 
Legal Standard¿ 
 
The Civil
Discovery Act provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to discovery
sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of
New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.) Discovery
sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and
they “should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the
party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)
“If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted:
continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.;
see also, e.g., Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) “Generally, ‘[a] decision
to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390 [citation
omitted].)
 
The primary
purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery
Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v. Super. Ct. (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 608, 613; Ghanooni v.
Super Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery sanction should not create a “windfall” for
a party or place a party in a better position than it would have been if the
opposing party had simply complied with its obligations under the Court’s
orders and the Civil Discovery Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194;
see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 8:2214-2220.) “[T]the trial
court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate sanction, and we must
uphold the trial court's determination absent an abuse of discretion.” (Dept. of
Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 19.)
Background
On August 19,
2022, Plaintiffs George Heinen, Damon Jackson and Jordan Saunders filed the
present motor accident case against Defendant Seth Meyers.  On December 19, 2022, Defendant Seth Meyers
served his Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One on each of the three Plaintiffs. On April 25, 2023, Defendant
served his Notice of Deposition with Request for Production of Documents on
each of the three Plaintiffs. On November 29 and 30, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiffs' answers to Defendant’s form
interrogatories and requests for production and ordered Plaintiffs each to pay
$1,470.00 in monetary sanctions. On January 9, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiffs' attendance and testimony at
depositions, ordered Plaintiffs to produce the documents requested in Defendant's
deposition notices, and ordered Plaintiffs each to pay $1,005.00 in monetary
sanctions.
At the outset of
this case, Plaintiffs were represented by counsel Robert B. Gibson. On March 6,
2024, Mr. Gibson filed a motion to be relieved as Plaintiffs' counsel, which
the Court granted on April 10, 2024. On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff Heinen
substituted in Kirk Schenck as his attorney. On April 16, 2024, defense counsel
mailed a letter to each of the three Plaintiffs requesting responses to Defendant's
written discovery by April 30, 2024. Having not received any discovery response
or payment of sanctions, Defendant moves the Court for terminating sanctions
against the three Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
Saunders and Jackson did not file an opposition.  Plaintiff Heinen filed an opposition.
Discussion
Plaintiffs
Jackson and Saunders
Defendant
contends that there are three prior court orders that have not been complied
with: the November 19, 2023, order to serve responses to form interrogatories
and monetary sanctions; the November 20, 2023, order to serve responses to
requests for production and monetary sanctions; and the January 9, 2024, order
to compel Plaintiffs' deposition attendance. Plaintiffs, including Saunders and
Jackson, were given approximately six months to comply with the three court
orders and failed to do so. Even after Gibson was relieved as counsel,
Defendant served Plaintiffs copies of the relevant minute orders in which the
Court had ordered compliance with discovery; however, Plaintiffs Jackson and
Saunders failed to respond.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs
Jackson and Saunders did not file an opposition contesting the present motion. It
appears, based on Jackson and Saunders’ failure to comply with court orders to
respond to discovery requests, failure to attend depositions, failure to
respond to defense counsel’s inquiries after their attorney was relieved, and
failure to oppose the present motion, that Plaintiffs Jackson and Saunders have
abandoned their case. As such, lesser sanctions than terminating sanctions
appear unlikely to curb further discovery abuses. The Court thus finds good
cause to issue terminating sanctions against Plaintiffs Jackson and Saunders.
Plaintiff Heinen
 
Plaintiff Heinen
differs from Saunders and Jackson in that Heinen filed an opposition to the
present motion, served responses to the requests for production (RFP) and form
interrogatories (FROG), and proposed a date for his deposition.
The parties do
not dispute that the responses to form interrogatories and requests for
production at issue were served in May 2023, but without verifications. In his
supplemental declaration, Plaintiff’s new attorney, Schenck, stated that
verifications to the discovery at issue were served in June 2024. The parties
dispute whether this is sufficient, as Defendant states the original responses
contain objections, and the Court's order on November 29 and 30, 2023, ordered
Plaintiffs to serve the responses without objection. However, neither
Plaintiffs nor Defendant attached the responses for the Court to review to
determine if and to what extent the original responses contain objections and
whether new discovery responses are necessary. Further, Schenck declared that
on June 19, 2024, in an email to Leach, he offered to make Heinen available for
his deposition commencing the week of June 24, 2024.
Terminating
sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and issue sanctions are inappropriate in this
instance as the purpose of sanctions is to induce compliance and not to punish.
(Newland v. Super. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613.) Plaintiff Heinen
complied with the Court’s order by serving verifications to Defendant’s form
interrogatories and requests for production. As to the Court order to serve
responses without objection, based on new counsel’s conduct, it seems probable
that discovery responses without objections, if necessary, will be served after
counsel gets Plaintiff’s files from Gibson, Plaintiff’s prior attorney. As to the
Court’s order for Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel has given
Defendant deposition dates for Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s new counsel’s actions
have shown that Plaintiff is willing to comply and engage in discovery.  
 
Under these
circumstances in which Plaintiff Heinen’s new counsel has demonstrated a proper
level of engagement in this case, the Court is not inclined at this time to
impose sanctions of any kind, including monetary sanctions, against Plaintiff
Heinen.  Much like the motion the Court heard
yesterday, sanctions against former counsel Gibson may be appropriate – the reality
is that most litigants would not know that verification of responses is required,
so the Court is hard-pressed to hold the lack of verifications previously
against Plaintiff Heinen himself – but Gibson is not on notice of that
possibility.  
 
Accordingly, the
motion against Plaintiff Heinen is denied.
 
Moving party is
to give notice.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 