  Case Number:  19STCV43811    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL 
Hearing Date: 6/28/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV43811 KARLA GOMEZ et al.
vs AMANUEL EDISON 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL IS GRANTED
 
Background
On May 21, 2021,
Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Settlement of Entire Case. On December 20, 2021,
the Court signed the proposed orders for minor’s compromise submitted for all
three minor plaintiffs, Guillermo Vergara, Kailene Gomez, and Henisis Leon. An
Order to Show Cause Re: Proof of Deposit and Dismissal was scheduled for August
2, 2023. The OSC was continued and advanced several times with a final hearing
date set for January 26, 2024, in Department 1. Plaintiffs' then-counsel, Nare
Kupelian, did not appear for the hearing, and the Court entered an order
dismissing the entire case. 
On May 29, 2024,
Plaintiffs moved the Court to vacate the order dismissing the case because a
blocked account for minor Guillermo Vergara was not able to be opened and
therefore Vergara cannot receive his portion of the settlement. Plaintiff
argues that Plaintiff’s prior counsel’s non-appearance was due to inadvertence,
surprise, and excusable neglect in failing to properly calendar the January 26,
2024, OSC. No opposition was filed.
Motion for Relief
“It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.”¿
(Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt¿(1960)
180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.)¿¿ 
Section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly
differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or
proceedings in the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119,
1124.) “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court has discretion to
allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against’ a party or his or her attorney.¿
Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by
attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the
court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’”
(Ibid., internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473,
subd. (b).)
An application for
relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) must be made
within a reasonable time and in no case, exceeding six months after entry of
the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is sought.
(CCP § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
Mandatory Relief
The mandatory portion
of section 473 requires the court to, “whenever an application for relief is
made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) A timely mea
culpa declaration by a plaintiff’s
attorney establishing that a dismissal was taken against her client as a result
of attorney mistake, inadvertence, or neglect deprives the court of the
discretion to deny relief. (Tackett v.
City of Huntington Beach (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60, 65.)
Discretionary Relief
CCP 473(b) provides
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”  
Discussion
Under the facts of this
case, Plaintiffs’ mother was in the process of opening blocked accounts for the
minors to facilitate the deposit of the settlement amount. However, Plaintiffs’
attorney, Nare Kupelian, due to a calendaring error, did not attend the Order
to Show Cause Re: Proof of Deposit and Dismissal, and the case was dismissed by
the Court. As a result, minor Plaintiff Vergara was not able to open a blocked
account in time to receive funds from the settlement. This present motion is
timely as the case was dismissed on January 26, 2024, and the present motion to
set aside was filed on May 29, 2024, within the six-month deadline for a motion
for relief.
However, mandatory
relief is improper in this instance as attorney Nare Kupelian did not file a
declaration attesting to her mistake or inadvertence. Although Attorney Angella
S. Farokhzad filed a declaration, Farokhzad was not the attorney who committed
the mistake that led to the dismissal and therefore Farokhzad’s declaration
does not meet the requirement for mandatory relief.
The Court finds that
circumstances justify the issuance of discretionary relief. First, minor
Plaintiff Vergara will be prejudiced by not receiving his portion of the
settlement if the dismissal is not vacated to allow him to open a blocked
account. Second, the OSC was initially scheduled for August 2, 2023, in Dept.
27, then continued to November 3, 2023, in Dept. 27, continued again to January
29, 2024, in Dept. 1, and then advanced to January 26, 2024. Given the multiple
continuances and advancements of the OSC, the Court finds Plaintiff’s prior
counsel’s calendaring error understandable. Although no proof of deposit was
filed with the moving papers, the Court finds this excusable as the case was
dismissed, and no such proof can be acquired. Furthermore, no opposition was
filed alleging prejudice. Thus, the Court finds good cause for relief and
GRANTS the present motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.