 Case Number:  20STCV44852    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF 
Hearing Date: 6/28/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV44852 CANDICE A RAVANA vs
ROIG CALIFORNIA LLC et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant ROIG CALIFORNIA LLC
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On November 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed her
complaint against Defendants ROIC California LLC and TJX Incentive Sales Inc.
On December 7, 2020, at 10:50 a.m, Plaintiff purportedly effectuated service on
Defendant ROIC when Guillermo Contreras, Plaintiff’s process server personally served
Stephen Eugene Jaycox, ROIC’s purported agent for service of process, with a
copy of the Complaint and Summons, at 9 Sunset Ct., Novato, CA 94947.  On August 21, 2023, a default judgment was
entered against Defendant ROIC. 
On May 24, 2024, Defendant ROIC filed
a motion to vacate the default judgment or quash the service of summons on the
basis that the address and individual allegedly personally served were not affiliated
with Defendant.  For the reasons
discussed below, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion. 
Motion
to Quash
A defendant may move, “on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow” to quash the service of summons by alleging a lack of
personal jurisdiction,
or to dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 418.10, subd. (a).) A motion to quash must be granted if the court finds that
either (1) there is no basis for exercising
personal jurisdiction over the defendant or (2) service on the
defendant was improper. (Ziller Elecs. Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1229.)
 “The return of a [registered] process server … establishes
a presumption, affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated
in the return.” (Evid. Code § 647.) “The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper.” (Floveyor International,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 795.)  A
summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and
the complaint to the person designated as agent for service of process. CCP 416.10(a)
 
Plaintiff filed a statutory compliant
proof of service indicating that the summons and complaint were personally
served on an individual identified as an agent for service for Defendant on
December 7, 2020 at 9 Sunset Ct., Novato, CA 94947. Defendant introduces
evidence to challenge this presumption. Richard Schoebel, Chief Operating
Officer of Defendant ROIC, declares that 9 Sunset Ct., Novato, CA 94947, is not
a place of business or an address related to ROIC. In fact, it is a residence.
Schoebel does not know who lives at or is related to that address. (Richard K.
Schoebel Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff did not file an opposition contesting the
motion to quash or argue that the service was proper. Furthermore, the Court
checked the Secretary of State filing for Defendant ROIC and did not find
Stephen Eugene Jaycox or 9 Sunset Ct., Novato, CA 94947 to be associated with
Defendant. The Court finds that Plaintiff did not effectuate proper service on
Defendant; therefore, the present motion is granted.
Court’s
Equitable Power for Relief
Defendant also points
to Munoz
v. Lopez, 275
Cal.App.2d 178, 181 (Cal. Ct. App. 1969), for the court to exercise its
inherent equitable power to grant relief from a default judgment obtained
through extrinsic fraud or mistake.
In Munoz, the
appellate court affirmed the trial court’s decision to set aside the default
and default judgment four years after it was entered.  “A trial court has an inherent equity
power under which, apart from statutory authority, it may grant relief from a
default judgment obtained through extrinsic fraud or mistake.” (Munoz, 275
Cal.App.2d at 181.) While the grounds for an equitable action to set aside a
default judgment are commonly stated as being those of extrinsic fraud or
mistake, the terms are given a very broad meaning which tends to encompass all
circumstances that deprive an adversary of fair notice of hearing whether or
not those circumstances would qualify as fraudulent or mistaken in the strict
sense. Thus, a false recital of service although not deliberate is treated
as extrinsic fraud or mistake in the context of an equitable action to set
aside a default judgment. (Id.) 
Inherent in filing a motion on the ground
that he had never been served with process is the implication that the recital
of service in the purported affidavit and certificate of service is false. (Id.)   As discussed in detail in the
foregoing analysis for the motion to quash, the Court finds that the purported
affidavit and proof of service for personal service of Defendant are false
based on Richard Schoebel’s declaration, the Secretary of State filing, and the
lack of an opposition alleging proper service. The Court thereby exercises its
inherent equity power and grants Defendant relief from default judgment.
Defendant is ordered to
file a responsive pleading within 30 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 
 