 Case Number:  23STCV27579    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PAOLA MARTINEZ,
  an individual; and BEATRIZ VERGARA, an individual, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KIA AMERICA, INC.,  a California Corporation; and DOES 1 through
  20, inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV27579 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date: November 25, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Paola Martinez and
Beatriz Vergara
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant Kia America, Inc.
             
BACKGROUND
             This matter stems from a complaint (the “Complaint”)
filed on November 9, 2023 by Paola Martinez and Beatriz Vergara (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
based upon their ownership of a 2022 Kia K5 automobile (the “Vehicle”).
(Compl., ¶5.) Plaintiffs allege in their Complaint that the Vehicle presented
defects soon after their purchase and the manufacturer Kia America, Inc. (the “Defendant”)
failed to conform the Vehicle to warranty. 
 
The
Complaint alleges both (1) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability
under the Song-Beverly Warranty Act and (2) breach of express warranty under
the Song-Beverly Warranty Act.     
 
            The motion now before the Court is
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Monetary Sanctions (the “Motion”); Defendant filed an
opposition to the Motion and Plaintiffs file a reply.  
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
            Code of Civil Procedure “section
128.7 applies solely to attorney misconduct in the filing or advocacy of
groundless claims made in signed pleadings and other papers.” (Clark v.
Optical Coating Lab. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 150, 164.) A violation of any
of the conditions of Section 128.7(b) (which includes (1) improper
purpose,  (2) frivolous claims, defenses
or contentions, (3) lack of evidentiary support or likely support and (4) lack
of evidentiary support or reasonable bases on lack of information as to
denials), may support an award of sanctions. (Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003)
106 Cal. App. 4th 967, 976.) 
 
Whether a claim, defense or contention is frivolous is measured
objectively. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
71, 82.) Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 requires bad faith conduct by
the person to be sanctioned. (Interstate Specialty Marketing, Inc. v. ICRA
Sapphire, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 708, 710 [“attaching the wrong draft
of a contract … to a … complaint does not appear to be, under the particular
circumstances of this case …, sanctionable at all…. Only lamentable inattention
was shown ….”].)
 
Additionally, “A trial court may order a party, the party's attorney, or
both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred
by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §128.5(a).)
 
Analysis
            In their moving papers, Plaintiffs request the Court to
do the following: 
(1)  Enter a finding of
liability against Defendant on the issues of breach of the express/implied
warranty and a finding of civil penalty exposure and that a prove up hearing on
damages be set; or
(2)  In the alternative,
preclude Defendant from putting forth a “good faith” defense to Plaintiffs’
civil penalty claim and preclude Defendant from offering any evidence or
testimony in support of such a defense; and 
(3)  Impose monetary sanctions
in the amount of $2,464.20 jointly and severally against Defendant and their
counsel.
 
Plaintiffs contend this request is justified because of Defendant’s
willful failure to comply with a May 9, 2024 Court order (the “IDC Order”) that
arose from the parties’ participating an Informal Discovery Conference (the “IDC”).
As a result of participating in the IDC, the parties stipulated to the issuance
of an order that the parties would do the following:
 
(1)  Meet and confer and set a
date certain for the deposition(s) of employees of Kia Downtown of Los Angeles
(the dealer) by one week from the date of the IDC order;
(2)  Defendant
was to provide Plaintiffs with the last known contact information for the
escalated case administrator who evaluated the repurchase order for the Vehicle
by one week from the date of the IDC Order;
(3)  Defendant
was to provide Plaintiffs with the name and contact information of the Call Center
in Arizona and the two employees of that Call Center that were involved in the
repurchase request on the Vehicle by one week from the date of the IDC Order;
(4)  Defendant
was to serve Plaintiffs with further written, code-compliant and verified
responses, without additional objections, to the Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production and Requests for Admissions previously
served on Defendant by Plaintiffs by three weeks of the date of the IDC Order,
together with all responsive documents.
 
Plaintiffs
contend that Defendant specifically failed to comply with items three and four
as of the date of filing of the moving papers, August 20, 2024. The deadline to
comply with item three was May 16, 2024, and the deadline to comply with item
four was May 30, 2024. 
 
Upon
opposition Defendant contends the Motion is moot because items three and four
were complied with on November 12, 2024, the same day the opposition papers
were filed and well after the deadlines of compliance for both items. Upon
reply Plaintiffs reiterate this still demonstrates a failure of compliance. The
Court agrees.
 
The
Court was specific in its IDC Order as to what tasks were to be completed, and
by when. Defendant failed to complete the tasks in a timely manner and provides
no explanation for the delay in their opposition papers. Defendant argues they
did not engage in discovery abuses; however, compliance was only achieved after
six months and the filing of the instant Motion. 
Sanctions
are warranted; however, evidence or issue sanctions may be imposed only after
parties violated discovery orders compelling further responses, except in
exceptional circumstances, including where there was sufficiently egregious
misconduct regarding a failure to respond to discovery, where any further order
would be futile.  (New Albertsons,
Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1426.) The Court’s docket
does not show a violation of an order compelling further responses. Moreover,
although the conduct here is an abuse of the discovery process, the facts do
not show egregious misconduct. Given the circumstances at this time, evidence
or issue sanctions are unnecessary, and monetary sanctions are sufficient.
Therefore, the Court shall impose monetary sanctions of $2,464.20 jointly and
severally against Defendant and their counsel.
 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs Motion is GRANTED.
However, the Court declines to issue evidence or issue sanctions at this time.
The Court shall solely impose monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,464.20, assessed jointly and
severally against Defendant and their counsel. Monetary sanctions are to be
paid to Plaintiffs within 10 days of this order.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 25th day of November of 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



