 Case Number:  24STCV20715    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NATASHA OCHA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
PATHPOINT, and DOES 1-50 inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV20715
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date: November 25, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
PathPoint 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Natasha Ocha 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff Natasha Ocha
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint against Defendant Pathpoint (“Defendant”) and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (2) discrimination
in violation of FEHA; (3) hostile work environment harassment in violation of
FEHA; (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (5) violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; and (6) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. 

            On September 18, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings (the “Motion”).
On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a notice of errata with an amended opposition. On November 18,
2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            In support of the Motion, Defendant submits the declarations of Rafael
Gonzalez and Mark Maynard with accompanying exhibits. Plaintiff objects to
portions of Mark Maynard’s declaration. The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: 1-3
SUSTAINED: None    
 
DISCUSSION
            The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”),
while a federal statute, applies in California courts and requires state courts
to enforce arbitration agreements as required by the federal common law
developed under the FAA. (Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1,
15-16; Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1066, 1074-78,
superseded by statute on another ground as stated in Ferguson v. Corinthian
Colleges, Inc. (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 928, 937.).) The FAA preempts and
invalidates state law and state judicial decisions that disfavor arbitration or
require arbitration provisions to pass higher scrutiny. (Southland Corp.,
supra, at p. 12; Perry v. Thomas (1987) 482 U.S. 483, 490.) If
the parties designate the FAA applies, then California arbitration law is
preempted. (Rodriguez v. American Techs., Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1121-1122.) Courts have found
that where the FAA is found not to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1280 et seq.) applies. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 178.)
 
¿           A court’s inquiry is limited to a
determination of (1) whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2)
whether the arbitration agreement covers the dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron
Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126,
1130; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; Simula,
Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc. (9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 720 [if the finding is
affirmative on both counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the
arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms].) In determining the
enforceability of an arbitration agreement, the court first considers “two
‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the
dispute at issue.” (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
955, 961.) Where the moving party meets that initial burden, “the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019)
38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257.)  
 
Moreover,
the general rule is that the FAA governs all agreements to arbitrate in
contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (Higgins v. Superior Court
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) The term “involving” commerce “is broad and
is indeed the functional equivalent of “affecting’ commerce.” (Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-274.) The U.S.
Supreme Court has held that this broad interpretation includes employment
contracts. (See Circuit City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 106.)
The defendant bears the burden of proving applicability of the FAA by showing
that its activities constitute interstate commerce. (Hoover v. Am. Income
Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) Failure to demonstrate
that the employment agreement affects interstate commerce renders the FAA
inapplicable. (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687-688; Woolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 197, 212.) 
 
Whether an Arbitration Agreement Exists
            “Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
 
            In support of its Motion, Defendant
attaches the Arbitration Agreement executed by Plaintiff on September 22, 2020.
(Maynard Decl., Ex. A [PathPoint’s Path to Resolution, Conciliation, Mediation
& Arbitration Resolution Agreement and Class Action Waiver (the “Arbitration
Agreement”).].) Defendant attaches a declaration from Mark Maynard, Chief
People Officer for PathPoint since February 2019, which explains the process by
which Plaintiff signed the Arbitration Agreement. (Maynard Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of
the document. 
 
Scope of Arbitration Agreement
“[T]he
decision as to whether a contractual arbitration clause covers a particular
dispute rests substantially on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or
‘narrow.’” (Bono v. David (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A
“broad” clause includes those using language such as “any claim arising from or
related to this agreement”‘ [Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the
[a]greement’ [Citation.]” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186
[italics omitted].) “But clauses requiring arbitration of a claim, dispute, or
controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising out of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding
language such as ‘relating to this agreement’ or ‘in connection with this
agreement,’ are ‘generally considered to be more limited in scope than would
be, for example, a clause agreeing to arbitrate “‘any controversy … arising out
of or relating to this agreement[.]’” [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 186-87
[italics omitted].) “Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements
requiring arbitration of ‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising
under’ or ‘arising out of’ the agreement are intended to encompass only
disputes relating to the interpretation and performance of the agreement.” (Id.
at p. 187.) 
 
            Here, the Arbitration Agreement states
in relevant part: “Except as otherwise provided in this Resolution Agreement,
PathPoint and I mutually agree that all legal disputes arising out of, or
related directly or indirectly to, my employment relationship with, or the
termination of my employment by, PathPoint shall be resolved only by final and
binding arbitration and not by way of court or jury trial. Covered claims
include any claim that may be legally compelled to arbitration, including, but
not limited to, disputes concerning any or all of the following: […]
termination, discrimination, harassment, retaliation and claims arising under
state and federal statutes…” (Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration Agreement, §
4(a).) Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges causes of action for retaliation, discrimination,
and harassment in violation of FEHA, failure to prevent discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA, violation of Labor Code section
1102.5, and wrongful termination. (Compl.)  Thus, the Arbitration Agreement encompasses each
of the Complaint’s causes of actions as described above.  
 


 
Interstate
Commerce
A
motion to compel arbitration based on the FAA must show not only that that the
employer engaged in interstate commerce but also that “the employment
relationship involved interstate commerce.” (Lane, supra, 224
Cal.App.4th at pp. 687-688.) Courts have found that where the FAA is found not
to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ. Proc. § 1280 et seq.)
applies. (Valencia, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 178.) 
 
The
Arbitration Agreement states that it “is an arbitration agreement governed by
the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. sections 1 et seq., and evidences
a transaction involving commerce.” (Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration
Agreement, § 4.) Defendant further states that it receives federal funding
which is used in part for staff compensation. (Mot., p. 5:14-16.) Plaintiff
does not oppose applicability of the FAA. 
 
Thus,
Defendant has established that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the
parties which encompasses the causes of action alleged in the Complaint. The
burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any
defenses to this Motion. 
 
Defenses to the
Arbitration Agreement 
Under
general contract principles, an agreement is unenforceable if it is
unconscionable. “‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must¿both¿be present in order for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation] But they need not be present in the
same degree. “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.” [Citation] In other words, the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term
is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc.¿(2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 114.)
 
Procedural
Unconscionability 
Procedural
unconscionability “addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and
formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.”
(Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn., supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 246.)
Established case law explains that “‘[o]ppression’ arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of
meaningful choice’ [and] ‘[s]urprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden [in the agreement] by the party
seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is oppressive because it is a contract of
adhesion. She argues that the Arbitration Agreement is a “standardized and
pre-printed agreement which she had no opportunity to negotiate.” (Opp., p. 12:25-26.)
She further argues that the Agreement is oppressive because she could not risk
losing her employment or upsetting Defendant by not signing the Arbitration
Agreement. (Opp., pp. 12:26-13:3.) 
 
            Defendant argues that the
Arbitration Agreement was not procedurally unconscionable because it is a
straightforward four-page document, and Plaintiff had the opportunity and time
to ask questions and review the document prior to signing. (Mot., pp. 7-25-8:2;
Maynard Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant notes that “PathPoint employees were invited to
participate in Town Hall meetings via Zoom for discussions on the topic of the
arbitration process. Two California arbitrators attended two of these Town Hall
meetings to participate in discussions.” (Maynard Decl., ¶ 6:4-7.) Defendant
further notes that “Plaintiff had the Agreement from August 19, 2020, until she
executed it and returned it on September 11, 2020.” (Maynard Decl., ¶ 6:10-11.)
 
            Based on the above, there is a small
amount of procedural unconscionability because Plaintiff has shown a contract
of adhesion. The degree of oppression is low, however, because Plaintiff was
given opportunities to discuss the Arbitration Agreement prior to signing and she
had approximately 3 weeks to review the document. (Maynard Decl., ¶.) Thus,
Plaintiff must show a strong degree of substantive unconscionability for the
Arbitration Agreement to be found unenforceable. 
 
Substantive
Unconscionability 
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms
are so one-sided as to shock the conscience.” (Kinney v. United HealthCare
Servs., Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.) 
            
            First, Plaintiff argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it “requires the
parties to initiate the employer-controlled “conciliation process” prior to
initiating mediation or arbitration.” (Opp. p. 13:22-23.) She argues that the process
is one-sided because it “is intended to apply to employee grievances, but not
those of Defendant” and further “requires employees to first escalate their
concerns to their immediate supervisors and HR Representatives (both of whom are
still employees and/or agents of Defendant) rather than providing employees
with the opportunity to directly report their grievances to an unbiased
third-party.” (Opp., p. 14:6, 21-24.) 
 
            Defendant argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable because it satisfies
the Armenderiz fairness requirements. (Mot. pp. 8:19-9:25; Armenderiz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 102-114, 117-118.) Defendant also argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is not one-sided because it applies to claims by both employees
and employer. (Reply pp. 6:10-7:5; Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration Agreement,
§§ 1, 4.) 
 
            Upon review, the terms of the
Arbitration Agreement are not unilateral. In the Agreement, both employee and
employer agree to resolve their respective disputes through arbitration. (Maynard
Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration Agreement, §§ 1, 4.) Plaintiff’s assertion that the
Agreement is unconscionable because it requires her to first participate in
internal complaint procedures does not indicate a high degree of substantive
unconscionability. The internal “conciliation process” is minimal, and the
employee is permitted to bypass the process depending on the nature of the
complaint, such as for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. (Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration Agreement, § 2.) Further,
as Defendant indicates in the reply, Plaintiff did bypass the conciliation
process in this case, and Defendant has never sought to enforce it. (Reply, p.
14:14.) 
 
Second,
Plaintiff argues that the confidentiality provision in the Arbitration
Agreement is unconscionable because it is excessively overbroad. The relevant
provision states in full: “Except as may be permitted or required by law, as
determined by the Arbitrator, neither a party nor an Arbitrator may disclose
the existence, content, or results of any arbitration hereunder without the
prior written consent of all parties.” (Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration
Agreement, § 4(g).) Plaintiff relies on Hasty v. American Automobile Assn.
(2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1041, for her argument that this provision is unconscionable.
The confidentiality provision in Hasty applied to “any and all disputes,
claims, or causes of action, in law or equity, arising from or relating to
[e]mployee’s employment or the termination of [e]mployee’s employment,
including but not limited to statutory, contractual and other claims…” (Hasty,
supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at 1061.) The provision in the Arbitration Agreement
here is readily distinguishable because it applies only to the arbitration, and
not all disputes and claims, and gives the arbitrator authority to determine the
permitted scope of disclosure. Thus, the confidentiality language does not
indicate a high degree of substantive unconscionability.  
 
Third,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement’s requirement that the
prevailing party automatically recover its fees and costs is unconscionable
because it violates the FEHA. (Opp., pp. 16:19-20:10.) Section 4(f) of the
Arbitration Agreement states: “Each party will pay his,
her or its own attorneys' fees and litigation costs, although the Arbitrator
shall make an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and litigation costs (not to
exceed actual attorneys’ fees and costs incurred) to the prevailing party in
the arbitration. PathPoint will pay the Arbitrator's fees and any
administrative fees that are in excess of the fees I would pay if the matter
were litigated in court. The Arbitrator shall not require me to pay
Arbitrator's fees or any fees that are in excess of the administrative fees I
would pay if the matter were litigated in court even if PathPoint is the prevailing
party in the Arbitration.” (Maynard Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration Agreement, § 4(f).)
 
Plaintiff
is correct that a provision that would automatically require Plaintiff to bear Defendant’s
attorney’s fees and costs if Defendant is the prevailing party violates the
FEHA. (Gov. Code § 12965 subd. (c)(6).) Thus, Plaintiff has shown substantive
unconscionability on this ground. This provision is severable, however, since the
Arbitration Agreement is not permeated with illegal contract terms, and there
is a single provision that this Court can strike to remove the unconscionable
taint from the agreement. (Armendariz, supra, at pp. 123-125.)
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff argues that although
she stipulated to arbitration for her class action and PAGA claims in a
separate action arising from her employment with Defendant, she did not waive her
right to a jury trial in this action through that stipulation. (Opp. pp.
18:1-15.) The Court notes that the determination on this motion to compel
arbitration is based solely on the discussion above, and not on any stipulations
made in a separate action. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
has only shown a small degree of procedural and substantive unconscionability
in the agreed-upon arbitration process. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED. The single sentence “Each party will pay his,
her or its own attorneys' fees and litigation costs, although the Arbitrator
shall make an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and litigation costs (not to
exceed actual attorneys’ fees and costs incurred) to the prevailing party in
the arbitration” is stricken. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 25th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



