On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff Olataga Pele, individually and as successor in interest of the Estate of De’Andre Shepard, Jr., filed the operative Complaint against Defendants City of Gardena, Gardena Police Department, and Doe Officer for (1) negligence, (2) negligent supervision and training, (3) survival claim, and (4) wrongful death. The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  “On April 13, 2023, at 2:27am, Decedent [De'Andre Shepard, Jr.] was traveling in a Dodge Charger with 2 friends.  Suddenly, Decedent Shepard noticed he was being followed by the Doe Gardena Officer.  In fear, Decedent Shepard continued to drive while the Doe Officer aggressively pursued Shepard's vehicle, which caused Shepard to be more worried during the pursuit. . . . [T]he Doe Officer continued the pursuit until the crash thus disputing Gardena PD's statement that the pursuit was discontinued from the freeway. . . . The surviving passengers stated that the Doe Officer was on the bumper of the subject vehicle when the crash occurred on April 13, 2023, at West 94th Street and Harvard Boulevard.  Due to the Doe Officer's tailgating bump, the subject vehicle spun into several parked cars and rested with the driver being deceased from the impact.  Importantly, it was observed that after the devastating crash, Doe Officer drove by slowly and then sped off away from the scene of the accident seemingly committing the crime of hit-and-run.”DemurrerDefendants now demur to the entirety of the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Government Tort Claim Defendants first argue that the Complaint fails because Plaintiffs did not plead compliance with the Claims Act.Under the Government Claims Act, all claims for money or damages against local public entities generally must be presented to those entities before formal legal action may be pursued. (Arntz Builders v. City of Berkeley (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 276, 279.)  The purpose of this general requirement is to provide public entities with notice of claims. (Ibid.)  Notice in turn provides the opportunity to settle just claims and to investigate and defend against unjust claims. (Id. at p. 298.)“[A] plaintiff may allege compliance with the claims presentation requirement in the Government Claims Act by including a general allegation that he or she timely complied with the claims statute.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1237.)Here, while the Complaint does not seem to reference the claims act requirement, the Court takes judicial notice of the Estate’s claim and notice of rejection.  (Evid. Code § 452(h); Salazar Decl., Exhibit 1.)  Thus, the exhaustion argument is rejected for the first, second, and third causes of action.The result is different for the wrongful death cause of action, which is a claim brought by Pele in her individual capacity.  The subject government claim does not list Pele in her individual capacity thereon.  This is problematic because “[w]here two or more persons suffer separate and distinct injuries from the same act or omission, each person must submit a claim; one cannot rely on a claim presented by another. This is so even where one person's injuries are ‘derivative’ of the other's. . . . [A]n heir's wrongful death claim seeks damages that are separate and distinct from the damages suffered by the victim (and recoverable by the victim's personal representative in a survival action on behalf of the estate). Hence, neither a wrongful death claimant nor a personal representative pursuing a survival cause of action may rely on the other's claim.”  (Cal. Prac. Guide Pers. Inj. Ch. 5-A.)Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the wrongful death claim, without leave to amend.Immunity Defendants next argue that they are immune from liability under Gov. Code §§ 815, 820.2 and Veh. Code § 17004.7. Gov. Code § 815(a) states, “A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” Gov. Code § 820.2 states, “Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public employee is not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission where the act or omission was the result of the exercise of the discretion vested in him, whether or not such discretion be abused.” Veh. Code § 17004.7(b) states:(1) A public agency employing peace officers that adopts and promulgates a written policy on, and provides regular and periodic training on an annual basis for, vehicular pursuits complying with subdivisions (c) and (d) is immune from liability for civil damages for personal injury to or death of any person or damage to property resulting from the collision of a vehicle being operated by an actual or suspected violator of the law who is being, has been, or believes he or she is being or has been, pursued in a motor vehicle by a peace officer employed by the public entity.(2) Promulgation of the written policy under paragraph (1) shall include, but is not limited to, a requirement that all peace officers of the public agency certify in writing that they have received, read, and understand the policy. The failure of an individual officer to sign a certification shall not be used to impose liability on an individual officer or a public entity. Subsection (c) of § 17004.7 indicates that there are 12 minimum requirements for such a policy.The response to Gov. Code § 815 is the potential application of Veh. Code § 17001.  This section states, “A public entity is liable for death or injury to person or property proximately caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation of any motor vehicle by an employee of the public entity acting within the scope of his employment.” Further, the Court cannot determine at this time whether Veh. Code § 17004.7(b) applies.  The Court cannot consider extrinsic evidence, and the Court does not have the policy to evaluate it in any case.  As to Gov. Code § 820.2, this section does not apply when it is not so much the decision to pursue that is challenged, but rather the subsequent acts that comprise the performance of the decision.  (See Gibson v. City of Pasadena (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 651, 661.)  That is the case here.  As to the negligent supervision and training claim, liability would be premised under Gov. Code § 815.2, which states, “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.” Thus, for the pleadings stage, the immunity argument is rejected against the entity Defendants. The Doe Officer, however, is entirely immune from liability per Veh. Code § 17004, which states: “A public employee is not liable for civil damages on account of personal injury to or death of any person or damage to property resulting from the operation, in the line of duty, of an authorized emergency vehicle while responding to an emergency call or when in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law . . . .”  Indeed, “the individual officers may not be held civilly liable for . . . death based on the manner in which they operated their vehicles during the chase, even assuming they acted without due care.”  (Hernandez v. City of Pomona (2009) 46 Cal.4th 501, 519.) Therefore, the Demurrer of Doe Officer is sustained, without leave to amend. Negligence, Negligent Supervision, & Survival ClaimDefendants next argue for the negligence claim that “Plaintiff does not identify the mandatory duty that is required since there is no statutory basis for this cause of action. Plaintiff also does not indicate a standard of reasonable care by which defendants should be measure in this particular case.”Negligence requires duty, breach of duty, proximate causation, and damages.  (N.N.V. v. American Assn. of Blood Banks (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1402.) “[U]nlike a wrongful death action, a survival action is a cause of action that existed while the decedent is alive and survives the decedent. The decedent's personal representative or successor in interest may commence that action.”  (Adams v. Superior Ct. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78–79.)Defendants fail to explain the necessity of a “mandatory duty”, rather than an ordinary duty of reasonable care, which has been alleged along with breach.  Further facts can be obtained in discovery for both negligence claims and the survivor claim on behalf of the Estate.  (See Khoury v. Maly's of California Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  The entity Defendants’ Demurrer is overruled as to these claims.  Summary The Demurrer of Doe Officer is sustained, without leave to amend. The Demurrer of the remaining Defendants is sustained as to the fourth cause of action, but is otherwise overruled.  Leave to amend is denied.Motion to Strike Defendant Gardena Police Department seeks to be stricken from the Complaint because “courts have held that a lawsuit against the police department is a lawsuit against the city of that police department and the city is the proper defendant.”Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Because there is no indication that the Gardena Police Department is separate and independent from the City (see Vann v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1013, 1024), the Motion to Strike is granted, without leave to amend. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.