 Case Number:  23STCV30834    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




martin ramirez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
california landmark group

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV30834




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   22, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant
  intersolutions, llc’s demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant
  intersolutions, llc’s motion to strike first amended complaint
(3)  
  defendant
  lemonade insurance company’s demurrer to first amended complaint
(4)  
  defendants’
  motion for judgment on the pleadings
(5)  
  defendant
  npm staffing, llc’s demurrer to first amended complaint
(6)  
  defendant
  npm staffing, llc’s motion to strike first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant InterSolutions, LLC          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with this
demurrer and motion to strike.  
The court (1) has considered the opposition papers filed on October
25, 2024, which were timely filed nine court days before the original hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike,[1]
and (2) sustains InterSolutions, LLC’s evidentiary objection to, and therefore
has not considered, the “supplementary opposition” to InterSolutions, LLC’s
demurrer and motion to strike, set forth in the omnibus opposition to the other
pending demurrers and motion for judgment on the pleadings filed on January 8,
2025, because plaintiff Martin Ramirez was not authorized to file a
supplemental opposition to this demurrer. 
The court (1) overrules plaintiff Martin
Ramirez’s objection to defendant InterSolutions, LLC’s reply papers, and
therefore (2) has considered the reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Lemonade Insurance
Company 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
(3)  
Defendant
Lemonade Insurance Company’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this demurrer.  No reply papers were filed.  
MOVING PARTIES:           Defendants California Landmark Group,
Inc., R3 Lofts LLC, and CLG Management LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
(4)  
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
The court considered the
moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this motion.  
The court has exercised its
discretion to consider the reply papers, filed one court day late on January
15, 2025, because plaintiff Martin Ramirez has already opposed this motion and
therefore is not prejudiced by the untimely filing of the reply papers.  The court therefore overrules plaintiff Martin
Ramirez’s evidentiary objection thereto. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant NPM Staffing, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
(5)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(6)  
Motion
to Strike First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this demurrer and motion to strike. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s request for judicial notice as to exhibit 1 because defendant
InterSolutions, LLC has not shown that plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s Second
Amended Cross-Complaint, filed in another action (Case No. BC464336) is
relevant to the issues presented in connection with its demurrer.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant
to a material issue”].) 
The court denies defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s request for judicial notice as to exhibits 2-4 because,
although they are court records (the existence of which may be subject to
judicial notice), InterSolutions, LLC is attempting to rely on the truth of the
matters asserted therein, which is improper. 
(Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 697, 709 [“The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a
contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the court take judicial
notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper interpretation are
disputable”] [internal quotation marks and citation omitted]; See, e.g.,
InterSolutions’ Dem., pp. 2:22-24 [citing, inter alia, RJN Ex. 4, which
consists of declarations of Kenneth Stone and Paul Salazar], 6:4-5 [citing
declarations to “confirm[]” a fact], 6:25].)
The court denies plaintiff
Martin Ramirez’s request for judicial notice, filed in opposition to defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s demurer and motion to strike on October 25, 2024, because
(1) plaintiff Martin Ramirez did not (i) provide the court with a copy of
exhibits 1-6, which consist of court records filed in another action (Case No.
21STCV01968) or (ii) show that those matters are relevant to the issues
presented in connection with defendant InterSolutions, LLC’s demurer and motion
to strike, and (2) exhibits 7 and 8 are not relevant to the issues presented in
connection with defendant InterSolutions, LLC’s demurer and motion to
strike.  (Malek Media Group LLC, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825; Pl. RJN, pp. 1-2.) 
            The court denies defendants California Landmark Group, Inc., R3 Lofts
LLC, and CLG Management, LLC’s request for judicial notice because the matters
to be judicially noticed are not relevant to the issues presented in connection
with their motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Malek Media Group LLC, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.) 
            The court grants defendant NPM Staffing,
LLC’s requests for judicial notice as to exhibits 1-2.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).) 
            The
court denies defendant NPM Staffing, LLC’s requests for judicial notice as to
exhibits 3-4 because those matters are not relevant to the issues presented in
connection with its demurrer and motion to strike.  (Malek Media Group LLC, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)
            The
court denies plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s request for judicial notice, filed on
January 21, 2025, because it was not filed at least nine court days before the
hearing on these matters.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Martin Ramirez
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint in this action on
June 20, 2024, alleging 13 cause of action for (1) statutory violation of the
Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance; (2) wrongful eviction; (3) unfair and
fraudulent business practices; (4) unfair and fraudulent advertising; (5)
violations of the HUD federal prohibitions on subletting; (6) elder abuse; (7)
deceit based on intentional misrepresentation; (8) fraud against the disabled;
(9) negligent hiring; (10) theft; (11) extortion; (12) breach of contract; and (13)
violation of privacy.  The court notes
that, although the caption of the First Amended Complaint lists a 14th cause of
action for aiding and abetting and a 15th cause of action for respondeat
superior, the body of the First Amended Complaint does not allege separately
such causes of action.[2]
Now pending before the court
are the following four sets of responsive pleadings directed to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint.  
First, defendant
InterSolutions, LLC (“InterSolutions”) moves the court for an order      (1) sustaining its demurrer to each cause
of action alleged against it, and (2) striking from the First Amended Complaint
the requests for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. 
Second, defendant Lemonade
Insurance Company (“Lemonade”) moves the court for an order sustaining its
demurrer to each cause of action alleged against it by Plaintiff. 
Third, defendants California
Landmark Group, Inc. (“CLG Inc.”), R3 Lofts LLC (“R3 Lofts”), and CLG
Management, LLC (“CLG Management”) (collectively, “Landlord Defendants”) move
the court for an order granting their motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to each cause of action alleged against them by Plaintiff. 
Fourth, defendant NPM
Staffing, LLC (“NPM Staffing”) moves the court for an order  (1) sustaining its demurrer to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint, and (2) striking from the First Amended Complaint the
requests for punitive damages and attorney’s fees.
DEMURRER
FILED BY DEFENDANT INTERSOLUTIONS
The court finds that InterSolutions has not shown that Plaintiff’s
first through eighth and 10th through 11th causes of action are superfluous and
therefore overrules its demurrer to those causes of action. 
The court overrules InterSolutions’ demurrer to the first cause of
action for violation of the Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance and second cause
of action for wrongful eviction because InterSolutions has not met its burden
to show that these causes of action do not state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against it.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
The court notes, as raised by InterSolutions, that Plaintiff has not
alleged that InterSolutions was Plaintiff’s landlord, and instead has alleged
that Landlord Defendants are considered to be his landlords within the meaning
of the Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance and the wrongful eviction statutes (FAC
¶ 5).  However, Plaintiff has alleged
that Kenneth Stone (“Stone”) (1) was an employee of both the landlord of the
subject property and InterSolutions (FAC ¶ 9), and (2) engaged in certain
wrongful conduct, including (i) eliminating Plaintiff’s right to park his
vehicle (FAC ¶ 25, subd. (b)), which constitutes tenant harassment, (ii)
failing to perform and complete necessary repairs (FAC ¶ 25, subd. (i)), which
constitutes tenant harassment, and (iii) wrongfully evicting and locking out
Plaintiff (FAC ¶ 30).  (Los Angeles City
Municipal Code, Chapter IV, Art. 5.3, Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, §
45.33, subds. (1) [harassment includes the landlord’s “eliminating housing
services required by a lease, contract or law, including the elimination of
parking if provided in the tenant’s lease or contract except when necessary to
comply with a court order or local or state law . . . .”], (2) [harassment
includes landlord’s failure “to perform and timely complete necessary repairs
and maintenance required by . . . local housing, health or safety laws . . .
.”].)  
Thus, Plaintiff has alleged that InterSolutions’ employee engaged in
the wrongful conduct that forms the basses of these causes of action.  InterSolutions has not met its burden to
show, on the face of the First Amended Complaint and matters that are properly
the subject of judicial notice, that it cannot be held vicariously liable for
Stone’s conduct under the doctrine of respondeat superior.[3]  (Newland v. County of Los Angeles (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 676, 685 [“Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an
employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s tortious conduct within the
scope of employment”]; InterSolutions Dem., p. 15:16-17 [arguing that
InterSolutions cannot be held liable under this theory because it did not
employ Stone at the time the conduct occurred, relying on extrinsic evidence].)

The court sustains InterSolutions’ demurrer to the third cause of
action for unfair and fraudulent business practices and fourth cause of action
for unfair and fraudulent advertising because they do not state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that (1) he lost money or property as a result of InterSolutions’
unfair competition, or (2) InterSolutions used deceptive advertisements.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Bus.
& Prof. Code, §§ 17204, 17535, 17200; Downey v. Public Storage, Inc. (2020)
44 Cal.App.5th 1103, 1115 [“Unless the advertisement is deceptive, the
advertisement does not constitute a ‘fraudulent’ business practice or false
advertising”].) 
The court sustains InterSolutions’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for violations of the HUD federal prohibitions on subletting because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
InterSolutions since (1) Plaintiff has alleged that Landlord Defendants and
individual Leonardo Mayendia (“Mayendia”) sublet the subject apartment in
violation of the federal regulations, not InterSolutions (FAC ¶ 36), and (2)
Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that InterSolutions or its
employees aided and abetted or committed such violations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Nasrawi,
supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 343.) 
The court overrules InterSolutions’ demurrer to the sixth cause of
action for elder abuse because InterSolutions has not met its burden to show
that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since
(1) the court agrees with the reasoning set forth in cases that have concluded
that a violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act
can constitute an independent cause of action, and (2) the court has overruled
InterSolutions’ demurrer to the wrongful eviction cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Perlin
v. Fountain View Management, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 657, 666
[“reject[ing] [the] argument that a violation of the Act does not constitute an
independent cause of action”]; InterSolutions Dem., p. 10:3-9 [arguing that the
court should sustain the demurrer on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot
bring an independent cause of action for violation of the Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, and (2) this cause of action fails because
the wrongful eviction cause of action fails].) 
The court notes that InterSolutions did not argue that this cause of
action fails for any other reason. 
The court sustains InterSolutions’ demurrer to the seventh cause of
action for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against InterSolutions
since Plaintiff did not allege, with the requisite particularity, facts
establishing (1) each element of this cause of action, including any
misrepresentations allegedly made by InterSolutions, and (2) that
InterSolutions or its employees aided and abetted any other defendant in making
intentional misrepresentations to Plaintiff. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lauckhart v. El Macero
Homeowners Assn. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 889, 903 [elements of intentional
misrepresentation], 903-904 [“Fraud must be pleaded with particularity.  General and conclusory allegations are
inadequate.”  Thus, a plaintiff must
plead facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered]; FAC ¶¶ 40-41 [alleging misrepresentations made
by the landlord defendants and Mayendia], 42 [alleging misrepresentation made
by Lemonade].) 
The court sustains InterSolutions’ demurrer to the eighth cause of
action for fraud against the disabled because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against InterSolutions since
Plaintiff did not allege, with the requisite particularity, facts establishing
each element of fraud.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Lauckhart, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903.)
 Although Plaintiff has alleged that
InterSolutions falsely “marketed to Landlords that all of [its]
employees were qualified” (FAC ¶ 49 [emphasis added]), Plaintiff did not allege
that (1) InterSolutions made such a misrepresentation to Plaintiff, (2) InterSolutions
made the misrepresentation without regard for its truth, (3) InterSolutions
intended that Plaintiff rely on that misrepresentation, (4) Plaintiff
reasonably relied on that misrepresentation, and (5) as a result of that
reliance, Plaintiff was harmed.  (Lauckhart,
supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903 [elements of misrepresentation].) 
            The court overrules InterSolutions’
demurrer to the ninth cause of action for negligent hiring because InterSolutions
has not met its burden to show that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since InterSolutions (1) has argued that this cause
of action is untenable because “the employer-employee relationship between Mr.
Stone and Intersolutions terminated in July 2021,” but (2) has not cited
allegations in the First Amended Complaint or matters that are properly subject
to judicial notice to support that assertion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); InterSolutions Dem., pp.
12:18-21, 12:14-15 [arguing that “[a]s the supporting affidavits prove,
Mr. Stone’s employment relationship . . . ended in July 2021”] [emphasis added],
19:4-15 [citing declarations in support of argument].) 
            The court sustains InterSolutions’
demurrer to the 10th cause of action for theft under Penal Code section 484
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against InterSolutions since (1) Plaintiff has alleged that Landlord Defendants,
and Mayendia stole Plaintiff’s property, not InterSolutions (FAC ¶¶ 13, 58),
and (2) Penal Code section 484 does not create a private cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Windham
v. Davies (E.D. Cal. 2015) 2015 WL 461628 at p. *6 [“California Penal Code
section 484 does not contain any language suggesting that civil enforcement is
available to Plaintiff.  Nor does the
Court find[] any authority that a violation of Penal Code section 484 provides
a private right of action”]; Reynaud v. Technicolor Creative Services USA,
Inc. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1007, 1022, n. 9 [unpublished federal cases may
be cited as persuasive, although not binding, authority].) 
The court sustains InterSolutions’ demurrer to the 11th cause of
action for extortion under Penal Code section 518 because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against InterSolutions since
Plaintiff (1) has alleged that Mayendia extorted Plaintiff by demanding $75,000
(FAC ¶ 51), and (2) has not alleged facts establishing that InterSolutions
aided and abetted Mayendia in committing that act of extortion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); American
Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1475
[requirements of aiding and abetting].) 
The court notes that InterSolutions has also presented argument
regarding the sufficiency of the claims for respondeat superior and aiding and
abetting.  The court has noted, as set
forth above, that although the caption appears to list 14th and 15th causes of
action for respondeat superior and aiding and abetting, Plaintiff did not
allege those theories as separate causes of action.  
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that
burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds, after considering Plaintiff’s opposition and the
January 6, 2025 “(Proposed) Amendments to First Amended Complaint,” that
Plaintiff has not articulated how he could amend his third, fourth, fifth,
seventh, eighth, 10th, and 11th causes of action against InterSolutions.  The court therefore sustains InterSolutions’
demurrer to those causes of action without leave to amend.
MOTION
TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT INTERSOLUTIONS
InterSolutions moves the court for an order striking the following
from the First Amended Complaint: (1) the references to Civil Code section
3294, as set forth on page 1, line 20 of the caption, page 16, line 17, page
19, line 20 (FAC, Prayer, ¶ 20), and page 19, line 25 (FAC ¶ ¶ 5), and (2) the
request for attorney’s fees. 
The court grants InterSolutions’ motion to strike the prayer and
references to punitive damages because Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of InterSolutions. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  For example, although Plaintiff has alleged
that Stone engaged in tenant harassment, Plaintiff did not allege that such
conduct was authorized or ratified by an officer, director, or managing
agent.  (Ibid.) 
The court denies InterSolutions’ motion to strike the prayer for
attorney’s fees because InterSolutions has not shown that Plaintiff’s request
therefor, made, in part, pursuant to Civil Code section 789.3—on which the
first and second causes of action appear to be based—is improper.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Civ.
Code, § 789.3, subd. (d) [allowing for attorney’s fees brought under
subdivision (c) to the prevailing party].) 
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 290.) ¿ To satisfy that burden,
a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman, supra,
18 Cal.3d at p. 349.)  The court finds
that Plaintiff may amend the First Amended Complaint to allege facts in support
of his request for punitive damages against InterSolutions.  
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for an issue sanction against
InterSolutions.  (Opp., p. 6:9-16.) 
DEMURRER
FILED BY DEFENDANT LEMONADE
The court finds that Lemonade has not met its burden to show that
there has been a misjoinder of parties and therefore overrules its demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint on that ground. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (d).) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for violation of the Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance and second cause of
action for wrongful eviction because  (1)
they do not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Lemonade since Plaintiff has not alleged that Lemonade was Plaintiff’s landlord,
and (2) they are ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain since the
causes of action are improperly combined into one cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Los
Angeles City Municipal Code, Chapter IV, Art. 5.3, Tenant Anti-Harassment
Ordinance, § 45.33 [defining tenant harassment to be “a landlord’s knowing
and willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that
causes detriment and harm, and that serves no lawful purpose . . . .”]
[emphasis added]; Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 294 [“A tenant who is wrongfully evicted by his landlord
before the expiration of the lease term may maintain a wrongful eviction action
for tort damages and punitive damages, if appropriate”]; Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 2.112 [each separately stated cause of action must state its number,
nature, and parties that are asserting it and against whom it is asserted].)  
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes
of action for unfair and fraudulent business practices and advertising because
(1) they do not state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against
Lemonade since Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts establishing that (i)
Lemonade engaged in a business act or practice that was unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent, and (ii) Lemonade used deceptive advertising, and (2) they are
ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain since (i) the First
Amended Complaint has combined these causes of action with three other causes
of action, such that (ii) the sole allegation regarding Lemonade’s conduct—that
it “engaged in deceit and misrepresentation in denying a perfectly valid theft
claim citing that Plaintiff had not filed a Police Report when indeed their
policy does not require it” (FAC ¶ 43)—does not state that it is alleged to
support these causes of action, and instead appears to support the fraud cause
of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f); Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200; FAC p. 14:10-17 [combining
third through seventh causes of action]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for violations of the HUD federal prohibitions on subletting because it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Lemonade
since (1) Plaintiff has alleged that Landlord Defendants and Mayendia sublet
the subject apartment in violation of the federal regulations, not Lemonade
(FAC ¶ 36), and (2) it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain
since it has been combined with four other causes of action, such that it is
unclear what conduct serves as the basis of this claim against Lemonade.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).)

The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for elder abuse because (1) it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Lemonade since Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that Lemonade engaged in (i) the physical abuse, neglect,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering of Plaintiff, (ii) the deprivation, as a care
custodian, of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering of Plaintiff, or (iii) the financial abuse of Plaintiff, and
(2) it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain since it has
been combined with four other causes of action, such that it is unclear what
conduct serves as the basis of this claim against Lemonade.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f);
Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a) [defining abuse of an elder or
dependent adult]; FAC p. 14:10-17 [combining third through seventh causes of
action]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for deceit and misrepresentation because (1) it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged, with the
requisite particularity, each element of this cause of action, including (i)
when, to whom, and how Lemonade the subject misrepresentation to Plaintiff (FAC
¶ 42), (ii) that Lemonade knew the misrepresentation was false when it made it,
(iii) Lemonade intended Plaintiff to rely on that misrepresentation, (iv)
Plaintiff reasonably relied on the misrepresentation, and (v) Plaintiff was
harmed, and his reliance on Lemonade’s representation was a substantial factor
in causing his harm, and (2) it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore
uncertain since it is combined with multiple causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f); Lauckhart,
supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903 [elements of deceit based on intentional
misrepresentation]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for fraud against the disabled because (1) it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged, with the
requisite particularity, each element of this cause of action for fraud,
including any misrepresentations made by Lemonade that form the basis of this
cause of action, and (2) it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore
uncertain since it is combined with other causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f); Lauckhart,
supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903 [elements of deceit based on intentional
misrepresentation]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for negligent hiring because it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore
uncertain as alleged against Lemonade because (1) this cause of action is
combined with three other causes of action, such that it is not clear which
allegations are alleged in support of this cause of action, and (2) Plaintiff
appears to allege a cause of action for negligent hiring only against defendant
InterSolutions, not Lemonade (FAC ¶ 49). 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the 10th cause of action for
theft (Pen. Code, § 484) because (1) it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged (i) that Lemonade
engaged in the theft of Plaintiff’s property on December 22, 2021, and instead has
alleged that Landlord Defendants and Mayendia stole Plaintiff’s property (FAC
¶¶ 13, 58), and (ii) facts establishing that Lemonade is responsible for this
theft pursuant to the theories of respondeat superior or aiding and abetting
(FAC ¶ 50), and (2) it is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain
since it is combined with multiple other causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f);
Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the 11th cause of action for
extortion because (1) it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against InterSolutions since Plaintiff (i) has alleged that Mayendia
extorted Plaintiff by demanding $75,000 (FAC ¶ 51), not Lemonade, and (ii) has
not alleged facts establishing that Lemonade aided and abetted Mayendia in
committing that act of extortion, or that Lemonade is liable for Mayendia’s
extortion under any other theory of liability, and (2) it is ambiguous and
unintelligible and therefore uncertain since it is combined with multiple other
causes of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subds. (e), (f); Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.112.) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the 12th cause of action for
breach of contract because it cannot be ascertained from the First Amended
Complaint whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).) 
The court sustains Lemonade’s demurrer to the 13th cause of action for
violation of privacy under Insurance Code section 791.13 because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that Lemonade disclosed “personal or privileged
information about an individual collected or received in connection with an
insurance transaction” without authorization. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Ins. Code, § 791.13.)  The court notes that Plaintiff has alleged that
Lemonade violated Plaintiff’s privacy “by disclosing UNTRUE confidential
details about the Theft claim (that it had been paid when it had not
been paid” to Mayendia and Stone (FAC ¶ 57 [emphasis added]).  However, that paragraph alleges the
disclosure about the theft claim itself, and does not allege the disclosure of
“personal or privileged information about” Plaintiff.  (Ins. Code, § 791.13 [prohibiting the
disclosure of information about an individual].) 
 The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at
p. 290.) ¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.”¿ (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 349.)  The court finds that Plaintiff has shown that
he can amend (1) the third cause of action unfair competition to specifically
identify the conduct that he contends constitutes unfair competition, (2) the
seventh cause of action for intentional misrepresentation to allege additional
facts regarding the alleged misrepresentation, (3) the 12th cause of action for
breach of contract to identify whether the subject contract or insurance policy
is written, oral, or implied by conduct, and (4) the 13th cause of action for
violation of privacy (Insurance Code section 791.13).  (Jan. 6, 2025 Proposed Amendments to
Complaint, pp. 2:6-4:22 [proposed amendments to breach of contract, violation
of privacy, intentional misrepresentation, and unfair competition causes of
action].)  The court therefore sustains
Lemonade’s demurrers to those causes of action with leave to amend. 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS FILED BY LANDLORD DEFENDANTS
The court denies Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the first and second causes of action for violation of the
Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance and wrongful eviction because they state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action against them since Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts to establish that Plaintiff is their tenant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
FAC ¶¶ 2, 4.)  Although the court
recognizes, as raised by Landlord Defendants, that Plaintiff has alleged that he
sublet the premises from Mayendia (FAC ¶ 16), Landlord Defendants did not cite authority
establishing that it cannot be held liable for tenant harassment or wrongful
eviction of a subtenant.[4]  
Further, to the extent that Landlord Defendants contend that any
judgment in the unlawful detainer proceedings precludes Plaintiff from bringing
this action, Landlord Defendants did not meet their burden to show that issue
or claim preclusion applies.  (Def. MJOP,
p. 3:21-22 [arguing that Plaintiff has no legal right to return to the
property].)  Moreover, to the extent that
Landlord Defendants have argued that certain of Plaintiff’s allegations are
false, a motion for judgment on the pleadings—which tests the sufficiency of
the operative complaint—is an improper vehicle to challenge such truth or
falsity. 
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the third and fourth causes of action for unfair and fraudulent
business practices and advertising because they do not state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action since Plaintiff did not allege that he suffered injury
in fact and has lost money or property “as a result of” Landlord Defendants’ unfair
competition or deceptive advertising on Airbnb as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 17204, 17535; FAC ¶¶ 36, 38.) 
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the fifth cause of action for violation of the HUD federal
prohibitions on subletting (24 CFR § 982.551) because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since this federal regulation does
not create a private right of action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Brooks-Hamilton v. City of Oakland (N.D.
Cal. 2002) 2002 WL 1346714 [finding that another federal regulation in Title 24
promulgated by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
did not create a private right of action]; Reynaud, supra, 46
Cal.App.5th at p. 1022, n. 9 [unpublished federal cases may be cited as
persuasive, although not binding, authority].)  The court notes that Plaintiff has argued, in
his opposition, “that there are other interested parties included in the
Plaintiff section of all filed Complaints that DO have the authority . . . .”  (Opp., p. 11:20-24.)  However, Plaintiff is currently the only
plaintiff in this action. 
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the sixth cause of action for elder abuse because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Landlord
Defendants since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that they engaged
in (1) the physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other
treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering of
Plaintiff, (2) the deprivation, as a care custodian, of goods or services that
are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering of Plaintiff, or (3)
the financial abuse of Plaintiff.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07,
subd. (a) [defining abuse of an elder or dependent adult].)
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the seventh cause of action for deceit based on intentional
misrepresentation because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Landlord Defendants since Plaintiff has not alleged,
with the requisite particularity, facts establishing that (1) Landlord
Defendants made the subject misrepresentations to Plaintiff (FAC ¶¶ 40-41), (2)
Plaintiff relied on those misrepresentations, and (3) Plaintiff’s reliance on
those misrepresentations was a substantial factor in causing him harm.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
Lauckhart, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903.) 
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the eighth cause of action for fraud against the disabled
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Landlord Defendants since Plaintiff has not alleged, with the requisite
particularity, facts establishing that (1) Landlord Defendants made
misrepresentations to Plaintiff, (2) Plaintiff relied on those
misrepresentations, and (3) Plaintiff’s reliance on those misrepresentations
was a substantial factor in causing him harm. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Lauckhart, supra,
92 Cal.App.5th at p. 903.) 
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the ninth cause of action for negligent hiring because it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Landlord
Defendants since Plaintiff appears to allege a cause of action for negligent
hiring only against defendant InterSolutions, not Landlord Defendants (FAC ¶
49).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii).)
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the 10th cause of action for theft under Penal Code section 484
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since
Penal Code section 484 does not create a private cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
Windham, supra, 2015 WL 461628 at *6.)
The court grants Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the
11th
cause of action for extortion because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Landlord Defendants since Plaintiff (1)
has alleged that Mayendia extorted Plaintiff by demanding $75,000 (FAC ¶ 51), not
Landlord Defendants, and (2) has not alleged facts establishing that Landlord
Defendants aided and abetted Mayendia in committing that act of extortion, or
that Landlord Defendants are liable for Mayendia’s extortion under any other
theory of liability.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 290.) ¿ To satisfy that
burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman,
supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 349.)  The
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that he can amend (1) the third cause of
action for the unfair and fraudulent business practices (Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 17200) to allege that he has lost property or money as a result of Landlord
Defendants’ unlawful conduct (e.g., tenant harassment), and (2) the seventh
cause of action for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation to allege
more facts regarding the alleged misrepresentations made by Landlord Defendants.  The court therefore grants Landlord
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to those causes of action
with leave to amend.  The court grants
Landlord Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the remaining
causes of action without leave to amend. 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request that Landlord Defendants be
sanctioned.  (Opp., p. 15:25-27.) 
DEMURRER
FILED BY DEFENDANT NPM STAFFING
The court sustains NPM Staffing’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint in its entirety because NPM Staffing has shown, based on the
judicially noticed matters, that the First Amended Complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against it since NPM Staffing
is a cancelled limited liability company and therefore cannot be sued in this
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).) 
“Upon filing a certificate of cancellation pursuant to subdivision
(b), except as provided in Section 17707.6, a limited liability company shall
be canceled and its powers, rights, and privileges shall cease.”  (Corp. Code, § 17707.08, subd. (c).)  Pursuant to section 17707.6, “[a] limited
liability company that has filed a certificate of cancellation nevertheless
continues to exist for the purpose of winding up its affairs, prosecuting and
defending actions by or against it in order to collect and discharge
obligations, disposing of and conveying its property, and collecting and
dividing its assets.”  (Corp. Code, §
17707.6, subd. (a).)  “If a cancelled LLC
can ‘continue to exist’ for purposes of winding up, the inverse inference is
that it ceases to exist for all other purposes in light of section
17707.08(c).”  (Force v. Advanced
Structural Technologies, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2020) 2020 WL 4539026 at *4; Id.
at pp. *5 [“It is therefore possible to read section 17707.06(a) as announcing
the following narrow exception to section 17707.08(c)’s broader rule: cancelled
LLCs lose all rights and privileges, except that they may participate in
lawsuits for the purpose of winding up their affairs”], 6 [“a narrower reading
of 17707.06 is appropriate: a cancelled LLC may sue or be sued, but only where
such litigation concerns the winding up of an LLC’s affairs or the question of
when or whether an LLC was dissolved or cancelled”]; Reynaud, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th at p. 1022, n. 9 [unpublished federal cases may be cited as
persuasive, although not binding, authority].)  
Based on the judicially noticed matters, NPM Staffing has shown that
(1) on January 23, 2020, it filed a merger with InterSolutions, and (2) on May
27, 2020, it filed with the California Secretary of State an “LLC Termination –
Certificate of Cancellation.”  (RJN Ex.
1, pp. 1-2; RJN Ex. 2.)  NPM Staffing has
therefore shown that it is a cancelled limited liability company.  (Ibid.)  Thus, because NPM Staffing is a cancelled
limited liability company, it can be sued “only where such litigation concerns
the winding up of an LLC’s affairs or the question of when or whether an LLC
was dissolved or cancelled.”  (Force,
supra, 2020 WL 4539026 at p. *6.) 
Here, the First Amended Complaint does not concern (1) the winding up of
NPM Staffing’s affairs, or (2) when or whether NPM Staffing was dissolved or
cancelled.  
The court notes that Plaintiff has argued that California law allows a
plaintiff to file actions against dissolved corporations based on acts
committed before dissolution.  (Opp., p.
6:31-32.)  However, the authority on
which Plaintiff relies does not discuss Corporations Code sections 17707.08 and
17707.06 (which, as set forth above, concern the cancellation of a limited
liability company), but instead discusses Corporations Code section 2011, which
concerns causes of action that may be brought against a dissolved
corporation.  (Penasquitos, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1180, 1183; Corp. Code, § 2011 [setting
forth causes of action that may be enforced against a dissolved
corporation].)  
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 290.) ¿ To satisfy that
burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman,
supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 349.)  The
court finds that Plaintiff has not shown how he could amend his pleading to
render it sufficient against defendant NPM Staffing.  The court therefore sustains its demurrer
without leave to amend.  
MOTION
TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT NPM STAFFING
For the reasons set forth above, the court has sustained defendant NPM
Staffing’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint without leave to
amend.  The court therefore denies as
moot NPM Staffing’s motion to strike. 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s first, second,
sixth, and ninth causes of action. 
            The court sustains defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s third, fourth,
fifth, seventh, eighth, 10th, and 11th causes of action without leave to amend.

            The court grants defendant
InterSolutions, LLC’s motion to strike the request for and references to
punitive damages with leave to amend. 
            The court sustains defendant
Lemonade Insurance Company’s demurrer to plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s first,
second, fourth through sixth, and eighth through 11th causes of action without
leave to amend. 
            The court sustains defendant
Lemonade Insurance Company’s demurrer to plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s third,
seventh, 12th, and 13th causes of action with leave to amend. 
            The court denies defendants California Landmark Group, Inc., R3 Lofts
LLC, and CLG Management, LLC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to
plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s first and second causes of action. 
            The court grants defendants California Landmark Group, Inc., R3 Lofts
LLC, and CLG Management, LLC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
third and seventh causes of action with leave to amend. 
            The
court grants defendants California
Landmark Group, Inc., R3 Lofts LLC, and CLG Management, LLC’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth through sixth and eighth through
11th causes of action without leave to amend. 
            The court sustains defendant NPM
Staffing, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Martin Ramirez’s First Amended Complaint
without leave to amend. 
            The court denies as moot defendant
NPM Staffing, LLC’s motion to strike. 
            The court grants plaintiff
Martin Ramirez 20 days leave to file a Second Amended Complaint that (1) amends
his request for punitive damages against defendant InterSolutions, LLC, (2) alleges
each cause of action separately and does not combine multiple causes of action,
(3) amends the third, seventh, 12th, and 13th causes of action against
defendant Lemonade Insurance Company to cure the defects set forth in this
ruling, and (4) amends the third and
seventh causes of action against defendants California Landmark Group, Inc., R3 Lofts LLC, and CLG Management, LLC
to cure the defects set forth in this ruling.
            The court orders defendant NPM
Staffing, LLC to lodge and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10
days from the date of this order. 
            The court orders defendant NPM
Staffing, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 22, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


