 Case Number:  22CHCV01208    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 11, 2024
 

MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD
FAITH SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV01208

¿ 
Motion
Filed: 2/16/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant Genaro Sandoval, Jr. (erroneously
sued as Gerardo Sandoval) (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Juan Ramon Gutierrez; and Sonia
Knight (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order finding the settlement
entered between Moving Defendant and Plaintiff to be in good faith pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, and that any
claim against Moving Defendant for declaratory relief, apportionment of fault,
or partial or comparative indemnity, arising out of the subject action, is
barred.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motion
is granted.
 
Moving Defendant is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these
requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being
placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in
compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the
imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is
a personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 12/23/20, she was
injured in a motor vehicle collision between her vehicle and that of Moving
Defendant at or near the intersection of Hubbard Street and Foothill Boulevard,
Los Angeles, California, 91342. (Compl. pp. 6–7.) Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges that on 11/24/21, she was injured in a motor vehicle collision between
her vehicle and that of Cross-Complainants at or near the intersection of North
Glenoaks Boulevard and East Harvard Road, Burbank, CA 91501. (Id. at pp.
8–9.) Plaintiff alleges that each of the individual defendants “were the agents
and/or employees of the remaining Defendants, and in doing the things herein
alleged, were acting within the course and scope of said agency and/or
employment.” (Id. at pp. 7, 9.)
 
On
11/21/22, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Premises Liability (against dismissed
defendants Penney Opco LLC dba JCPenney and Northridge Fashion Center); (2)
General Negligence (against dismissed defendants); (3) Motor Vehicle (against Moving
Defendant); (4) General Negligence (against Moving Defendant); (5) Motor
Vehicle (against Cross-Complainants); and (6) General Negligence (against Cross-Complainants).
On 7/20/23, Plaintiff dismissed the entity defendants from the action.
 
On
4/28/23, Cross-Complainants filed their answer. On 5/3/23, Cross-Complainants
filed their cross-complaint against Moving Defendant and the dismissed entity
defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Indemnification; (2)
Apportionment of Fault; (3) Declaratory Relief; (4) Premises Liability (against
dismissed defendants); and (5) Motor Vehicle (against Moving Defendant). On
7/25/23, Cross-Complainants dismissed the entity cross-defendants from the
action. On 2/27/24, Moving Defendant filed his answer to the cross-complaint.
 
On 10/2/23, Moving Defendant entered into a
settlement agreement with Plaintiff. On 2/16/24, Moving Defendant filed the
instant application for determination of good faith settlement. On 6/28/24,
Cross-Complainants filed their opposition. On 7/5/24, Moving Defendant filed
his reply. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A plaintiff may settle with one of
several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract without releasing the
others, provided that the settlement is made in “good faith” pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6. “Where there are multiple defendants, each
having potential liability for different areas of damage, an allocation of the
settlement amount must be made. … Failure to do so may preclude a ‘good faith’
determination because there is no way to determine the appropriate set off
pursuant to section 877 against the nonsettling defendant.” (L. C. Rudd &
Son, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)
 
Once there is a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith
shifts to the non-settlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good
faith. (Fisher v. Superior Court (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 47; Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6, subd. (d).) The ultimate determinant of good faith is whether
the settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the
time of settlement would estimate the settlor’s liability to be. (City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1262.)
 
In making such a determination, the
Court considers several factors: (1) A rough approximation of the plaintiff’s
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) The amount paid
in settlement; (3) A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than if found liable at trial; (4) The allocation of the settlement proceeds
among the plaintiffs; (5) The settlor’s financial condition and insurance
policy limits, if any; and (6) Evidence of any collusion, fraud, tortious
conduct between the settlor and the plaintiff aimed at making the non-settling
parties pay more than their fair share. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde
& Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
 
Here, the terms of the settlement provide, inter alia, that
Plaintiff agrees to release her claims against Moving Defendant, with
prejudice, in exchange for $15,000.00. (Ex. 2 to Decl. of Jinny A. Cain.)
Moving Defendant asserts that the settlement satisfies each Tech-Bilt factor,
because “there are no allocation issues between the parties, as there is
only one plaintiff, and she brings her claims with respect to the December 23,
2020 Incident against only one named defendant, Mr. Sandoval. … The other causes
of action in Plaintiff’s complaint relate to two incidents that are distinct,
separate, and wholly-unrelated to the December 23, 2020 Incident.” (Def.’s Mot. 6:12–15.) Moving Defendant maintains that he
“agreed to pay Plaintiff a sum of $15,000.00 which represents the policy
limits available and which is well within the realm of what a reasonable person
would estimate Mr. Sandoval’s potential liability to be at the time of the
settlement.” (Id. at 6:18–21.)
 
A.   
Procedural Issues
 
1.     
Applicability of Code of Civil Procedure
Section 877.6
 
As a preliminary matter,
Cross-Complainants argue that “section 877.6 does not apply here because
Defendants are not co-obligors or alleged to be joint tortfeasors and therefore
the motion for good faith settlement should be denied. As three separate
accidents are alleged to have occurred, the code section does not apply under
these circumstances, and this motion should be denied.” (Opp. 5:16–18.)
 
Moving Defendant argues in reply
that “Cross-Complainants cannot take the two conflicting positions that 1) the
two incidents are wholly unrelated, and that Plaintiff’s damages stemming from
one incident are distinguishable in their entirety from those stemming from
another accident, and 2) the claimed damages are not distinguished from one
another.” (Reply 2:24–28.) As Moving Defendant observes, “Plaintiff alleges
both Defendant and Cross-Complainants contributed to Plaintiff’s alleged
injuries.” (Id. at 2:16–17, citing Compl.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 does apply in the instant
circumstances, where Plaintiff has alleged that her injuries were caused both
by Moving Defendant and Cross-Complainants, and where Cross-Complainants have likewise
alleged that Moving Defendant is partially responsible for Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
 
2.     
Applicability of California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1382
 
Cross-Complainants further argue
that the instant motion should be denied on its face because “Defendant
SANDOVAL failed to comply with the applicable statutes, including Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1382 with respect to identifying parties and pleadings and/or
portions of pleadings that would be affected by the proposed settlement, as
well as a failure to indicate the dates on which the affected pleading was
filed.” (Opp. 8:8–11.)
 
Rule 3.1382 of the California Rules
of Court states that “a motion or application for determination of good faith
settlement may include a request to dismiss a pleading or a portion of a
pleading. The notice of motion or application for determination of good faith
settlement must list each party and pleading or portion of pleading affected by
the settlement and the date on which the affected pleading was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 3.1382 [emphasis added].)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues in
reply that “Defendant’s motion for determination of good faith settlement did
not include any request for the dismissal of a pleading or a portion thereof.
Thus, Rule 3.1382 is inapplicable and does not constitute any basis for denying
Defendant’s motion.” (Reply 5:22–24.) The Court agrees, and finds that Moving
Defendant has not violated Rule 3.1382 of the California Rules of Court.
 
B.    
Good Faith Determination
 
1.      Proportional Liability
 
Here,
Cross-Complainants argue that the proposed settlement is unreasonable because “Plaintiff’s
medical bills are far more significant than the policy limit of $15,000
tendered by Defendant SANDOVAL, and the proportion of Plaintiff’s injuries
attributable to her accident with Defendant SANDOVAL is far greater than those
attributable to Defendant GUTIERREZ.” (Opp. 4:26–5:1.) Cross-Complainants base
their contentions on Plaintiff’s 5/1/24 deposition, “wherein Plaintiff
confirmed the 2nd Accident was much more severe than the 3rd Accident,” and on
Plaintiff’s responses to Cross-Complainants’ Form Interrogatories, Set One,
wherein “the damages sought by Plaintiff in this matter for medical treatments
alone exceeds $168,000.00.” (Id. at 4:2–3, 4:10–11.)
 
As Moving Defendant asserts in
reply, “the evaluation of whether a proposed settlement agreement was made in
good faith is based only on the information available at the time of the
settlement.” (Reply 3:17–19, citing Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d at 499 [“practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”].) Moving Defendant notes
that here, “Plaintiff was deposed on May 1, 2024, nearly seven (7) months after
Plaintiff and Defendant entered the proposed settlement agreement. The
information cited from Plaintiff’s deposition testimony was not available to
Defendant at the time of the proposed settlement agreement’s execution.” (Id.
at 3:23–26.) Furthermore, “Defendant has not filed an Answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint. Accordingly, neither Cross-Complainants[’] Form Interrogatories to
Plaintiff, nor Plaintiff’s responses thereto, were served on Defendant.
Defendant was not aware of the information contained in Plaintiff’s responses
to these Form Interrogatories, Set One, at the time [of] the proposed
settlement agreement’s execution.” (Id. at 4:5–8.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
agrees with Moving Defendant that “Cross-Complainants’ reliance on these
documents and the statements contained therein is improper,” as the information
was not available at the time Moving Defendant entered into his settlement with
Plaintiff. (Id. at 4:9–10.) Accordingly, the Court declines to consider
Cross-Complainants’ arguments to the extent that they rely on Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony or discovery responses.
 
2.      Insurance Policy Limits
 
Cross-Complainants further argue that “allowing a party to
escape claims for indemnity by paying an unreasonably disproportionate share
does not further the policy of allocating costs between multiple tortfeasors in
an equitable manner.” (Opp. 7:16–18, citing TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159.) To the extent that this
argument relies on Plaintiff’s damages figure as stated in her responses to
Cross-Complainants’ form interrogatories, the Court disregards these arguments
for the reasons discussed above. 
 
Moving Defendant further argues in reply that “when an
insurance company pays its total available policy limits, it is very strong
evidence of a ‘good faith’ settlement, absent evidence of collusion or grossly
inappropriate allocation or apportionment of the settlement proceeds to injure
the non-settling tortfeasor.” (Reply 4:20–23, citing Fisher v. Superior
Court (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 434, 446; Ford Motor Co. v. Schultz
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 941; Stambaugh v. Superior Court (1976) 62
Cal.App.3d 231, 238.) Moving Defendant further
asserts that “‘a disproportionately low settlement figure is often reasonable
in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’”
(Id. at 5:7–8, quoting Tech-Bilt, 38 Cal.3d at 499.) Here, “Defendant tendered the policy limits of his
automobile insurance policy and has no other policies of insurance which may
provide him coverage for the injuries alleged by Plaintiff. … Defendant was not
acting in the course or scope of employment at the time of the alleged December
23, 2020 incident.” (Id. at 5:9–13, citing Ex. 1 to Cain Decl., ¶¶ 2–4.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Cross-Complainants have not met their burden to show that the settlement
entered into is grossly disproportionate or unreasonable. Accordingly, the
Court finds the settlement entered
between Moving Defendant and Plaintiff to be made in good faith pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.¿ 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion
is granted.