 Case Number:  24STCP02382    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  19 TENTATIVE RULING 
After full
consideration of the papers and evidence filed, and inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom, as well as oral argument at the hearing, Petitioner Quinn Emanuel
Urauhart & Sullivan LLP’s Motion to File Under Seal is GRANTED. 
Petitioner to
give notice. 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE 
            This
petition arises out of a contractual arbitration proceeding, which occurred on
April 10, 2024 and purportedly resulted in an arbitration award to Petitioner
in the amount of $792,635.33.  
GROUNDS FOR MOTION 
            Petitioner
Quinn Emanuel Urauhart & Sullivan LLP (“Petitioner”) moves for an order to
file under seal the redacted portions of Exhibits A and B to the Declaration of
Richard H. Doss, Esq. in support of its Petition to Confirm Contractual
Arbitration Award. 
            The
motion is made on the grounds that these exhibits are confidential documents
and an overriding interest exist for them to remain confidential.  
DISCUSSION 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, “A party requesting that a record be
filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the
record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (CRC, rule
2.551, subd. (b)(1).) “A copy of the motion or application must be served on
all parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise,
any party that already has access to the records to be placed under seal must
be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a
redacted version.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).)
 Finally,
“[t]he party requesting that a record be filed under seal must lodge it with
the court under (d) when the motion or application is made, unless good cause
exists for not lodging it or the record has previously been lodged under
(3)(A)(i). Pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged
record will be conditionally under seal.” (CRC, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(4).) 
Here,
Petitioner seeks to file under seal (1) the written engagement agreement dated
August 7, 2018 (the “Agreement”), pursuant to which Respondent Ustocktrade
Securitites, Inc. (“Respondent”) retained Petitioner as legal counsel – Exhibit
A; (2) the Final Award in JAMS Arbitration Case No. 522002163 (the “Award”) – Exhibit
B; and the Declaration of Richard H. Doss, Esq. in support of its
Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award (the “Doss Decl. ISO
Petition”), which contains Exhibits A and B. 
The Court
finds that Petitioner has demonstrated there is an overriding interest in
filing the specified Exhibits and declaration under seal. 
First, Petitioner contends the Agreement should be filed under
seal because it constitutes a confidential communication between a client and
lawyer. Specifically, “
‘confidential communication between client and lawyer’ means information
transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that
relationship and in confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware,
discloses the information to no third persons other than those who are present
to further the interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom
disclosure is reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or
the accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and
includes a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the
course of that relationship.” (Evid. Code § 952 (emphasis added).) Likewise,
“[a] written fee contract shall be deemed to be a confidential communication
within the meaning of subdivision (e) of Section 6068 and
of Section 952 of the Evidence Code.” The Agreement between Petitioner and
Respondent constitutes a written fee contract and/or retainer agreement because
it discussed the scope and nature of Petitioner’s legal representation of
Respondent, billing, retainer fee amount, and responsibilities of each
respective party.  (Doss Decl., ¶¶ 2-3,
Ex. 1.) Furthermore, the Agreement does state that it is “strictly confidential
– attorney-client privileged material.” As such, a public filing of the
Agreement would disclose a communication between a lawyer and client made in
confidence regarding the scope and nature of legal services to be rendered. 
Similarly,
Petitioner asserts the Award should be filed under seal because the JAMS
Arbitration was conducted pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, thus
expressly confidential. (Doss Decl., ¶6; see generally Huffy Corp. v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 97, 108.) Petitioner also asserts the
Agreement expressly provides that the arbitration proceedings and decision of
the arbitrator would be confidential.  (Doss
Decl., ¶7.) Moreover, Petitioner contends the Award itself cites to portions of
the Agreement, provides summaries of Petitioner’s legal services derived from
monthly invoices, and quotes portions of orders issued by the arbitration
panel. (Doss Decl., ¶12.) Additionally, the Doss Decl. ISO Petition contains
excerpts from the Agreement and Award, therefore it is contains confidential
information subject to this motion. Lastly, Petitioner’s requests is narrowly
tailored to the sealing of only the Agreement, Award, and declaration, which
contains them as exhibits. There does not appear to be any less restrictive
means of protecting the confidential communications between Petitioner and
Respondent nor the confidential information that was used to determine the
arbitration award.

            Based on the foregoing, the Motion to File Under Seal is
GRANTED. 
             
 