  Case Number:  22STCV21645    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  19 BECKLEY v. GOLDEN STATE FINANCE AUTHORITY, et al.TENTATIVE RULING 
After full
consideration of the papers and evidence filed, and inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom, as well as oral argument at the hearing, Defendants American Home
Improvement, Inc. and Moshe Ben-Nissan’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The Motion to Strike is DENIED
as Moot. 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE 
            This
case arises from an alleged fraudulent scheme to defraud Plaintiff Osakemi
Beckley (“Plaintiff”) of money through home improvement work done by Defendants
American Home Improvement, Inc. (“AHI”), Moshe Ben-Nissan (“Ben-Nissan”), David
Grover (“Grover”), Golden State Finance Authority (“Golden State”), Ygrene
Energy Fund, Inc. and Ygrene Energy Fund California, LLC (collectively,
“Ygrene”), and Wesco Insurance Company (“WIC”) (collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
The Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) asserts the following causes of action: 
1)    Financial
Elder Abuse
2)    Cancellation
Of Written Agreement
3)    Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200 Et Seq.
4)    Public
Injunction Pursuant To Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 Et Seq.
5)    Cancellation
Of Taxes
6)    Intentional
Misrepresentation
7)    Fraudulent
Inducement
8)    Fraud

9)    Recovery
Of Contractor Bond 
10) Declaratory
Relief 
 
Defendants AHI
and Ben-Nissan (“Moving Defendants”) demur to the SAC and move to strike irrelevant
allegations. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿ 
Moving
Defendants requests judicial notice of the following: 
1)    Exhibit
1: Home Improvement Contract between AHI and Plaintiff, dated
10/04/2018.
2)    Exhibit
2: Plaintiff’s Submission to Voluntary Arbitration with the California
Contractors State License Board re CSLB Complaint #SF 2018-11640, dated
08/19/2019.
3)    Exhibit
3: Arbitration Award from the Contractors State License Board
Arbitration Program in the Matter of CSLB Case No. AS2019-242, Beckley v.
American Home Improvement, Inc., dated 04/21/2020. 
Plaintiff does
not dispute the accuracy of these documents but rather argues the RJN should be
overruled because Moving Defendants failed to file a proposed order per
California Rules of Court, Rule 8.252. The California Rules of Court, Rule
8.252, subdivision (a)(1) states, “To obtain judicial notice by a reviewing
court under Evidence Code section 459, a party must serve and file a
separate motion with a proposed order.” However, this action is before a trial
court not a reviewing court, i.e., appellate court. Thus, California Rules of
Court, Rule 8.252 is inapplicable in this instant action. 
Moving
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED. 
GROUNDS FOR MOTION 
Demurrer 
Moving Defendants demur to the SAC
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10, subdivision (e).
Specifically, Moving Defendants argue the first, third, fourth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action are (1) barred by the doctrine of res
judicata, i.e., claim preclusion and (2) fail to state sufficient facts to
constitute causes of action against Moving Defendants. 
Motion to Strike 
            Moving
Defendants move to strike allegations related to the sufficiency of the work
performed by them on the grounds that they were already adjudicated in the
Contractors State License Board arbitration between Plaintiff and AHI
(referenced at paragraphs 74-81 of the SAC). 
                                                            MEET
AND CONFER 
Counsel for
Moving Defendants complied with their statutory meet-and-confer requirements
prior to filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a); see Rothman Decl., ¶9, Ex. 2.)     
DISCUSSION 
Demurrer 
 “The
primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may
prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿ 
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the
factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges
facts sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.)
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their
context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual
allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded
and matters of which judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56
Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions,
deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿
 
A general demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to
support the cause of action asserted or under section 430.10, subdivision (a),
where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action
alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in Section 430.10, including
uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special demurrers. Special demurrers are
not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd.
(c).)¿¿¿
¿           Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿ 
 
Res
Judicata 
“ ‘Res judicata’ describes the preclusive effect of
a final judgment on the merits. Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents
relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same
parties or parties in privity with them. “Res judicata [claim preclusion] bars
the relitigation not only of claims that were conclusively determined in the
first action, but also matter that was within the scope of the action, related
to the subject matter, and relevant to the issues so that it could have been raised”
and includes ‘matters which were raised or could have been raised, on matters
litigated or litigable.’” (Burdette v. Carrier Corp. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1668, 1674-1675; accord Mark v. Spencer (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 219, 229 [bars claims that parties had a fair opportunity to
litigate].)  Claim preclusion applies as
a bar to splitting a cause of action for partial, later litigation, or
relitigation of the same cause of action based upon on another legal theory or
associated with different relief, that could have been sought in the prior
action. (Noble v. Draper (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1, 10; Hamilton v.
Asbestos Corp., Ltd.  (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1127, 1146.)  Its purpose is “to
preserve the integrity of the judicial system, promote judicial economy, and
protect litigants from harassment by vexatious litigation.” (Vandenberg v.
Superior Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 815, 829.) 
Moving Defendants argue Plaintiff chose to litigate
her claims arising from their alleged breach of the construction contract in
the Contractors State License Board (“CSLB”) arbitration, which limits
the damages available to $50,000.00 and now seeks to relitigate these claims
via the SAC. As such, Moving Defendants argues the asserted against them in the
SAC are barred by the doctrine of res judicata/claim preclusion. In opposition,
Plaintiff contends there are multiple claims that have not been litigated at
the CSLB Arbitration, thus her claims are not barred. 
“The doctrine of res
judicata applies not only to judicial proceedings but also to arbitration
proceedings.” (Thibodeau v. Crum (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 749, 755.) This is
because “arbitrating parties are obliged, in the manner of Sutphin, to
place before their arbitrator all matters within the scope of the arbitration,
related to the subject matter, and relevant to the issues.” (Id.) 
“ ‘The prerequisite
elements for applying the doctrine to either an entire cause of action or one
or more issues are the same: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action
is identical to a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior
proceeding resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party
against whom the doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a
party to the prior proceeding.’ [Citation.]” (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA,
Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797.) For purposes of res judicata, even an
unconfirmed arbitral award is the equivalent to a final judgment.” (Bucur v.
Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 186.) 
The SAC makes the following allegations: 
“In March of 2019, Plaintiff submitted a complaint
with the Contractors State License Board (CSLB) citing among many defects that
the house was not completely or properly remodeled, electrical wires were
not replaced, plumbing was not updated, new kitchen, bath, floorings, windows
were not properly installed; and the house interior was not properly painted.”
(SAC ¶74.) 
“On or around April 20, 2020, Arbitrator found many
wrongdoings and defects that coincided with Mr. Brigg’s findings such as the
fact the kitchen floor was unleveled, the water heater was installed without
permit and per code. The arbitrator did not rule on the re-roof section of the
front house, missing. Cabinet hardware, missing closet rods, shelves and doors
were found to be outside of the contracted scope of work.” (SAC ¶79.) 
“The current lawsuit seeks remedies for work that
was not arbitrated or ruled by the Arbitrator. Moreover, the Arbitrator and
Arturo Camacho informed the Plaintiff that she needs to seek further remedies
in civil court after the Arbitration had been adjudicated. The arbitration
process took longer than normal because of the Covid pandemic. California
Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 tolls an arbitration “statute of limitations”
provision requiring that the arbitration of a controversy be demanded. AHI
submitted a copy of the contract to the Arbitrator and the Arbitrator relied on
the contract in part to make his ruling.” (SAC ¶80.) 
“On June 17, 2022, plaintiff’s counsel requested
arbitration via email to Ms. Guetta but AHI failed to respond in regard to the
arbitration and failed to provide a copy of the contract where an applicable
arbitrable clause may exist.” (SAC ¶85.) 
            The CSLB
Arbitration Award stated in pertinent part: 
“TO THE ABOVE PARTIES AT INTEREST, IN THE MATTER OF
CSLB CASE NO: AS2019-242 
The undersigned Arbitrator, in accordance with
California Business and Professions Code §7085, has investigated and considered
all the material facts and available information pertaining to this case and
has decided upon a final and binding
Arbitration Award as described below.”
 (Defs.
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) No. 3, Ex. 3 (emphasis added).) 
Reading the allegations and judicially noticed
matters as true, a reasonable jury could infer that the CSLB arbitrator made a
finding that the claims to re-roof the front of the house; for installation of
missing cabinet hardware, closet rods, shelves, and doors; and for costs to
install a new forced air furnace were outside the scope of the contracted work
and Moving Defendants scope of work generally. The CSLB’s findings resulted in
denial of those claims. 
Here, the SAC allegations do not state any facts
indicating Plaintiff’s seeks relief for new claims related to the work
purportedly performed by Moving Defendants. Instead, the SAC seeks remedies for
claims against the same parties, which were are already ruled on during the
CSLB’s arbitration. More specifically, the SAC seeks remedies for claims against
Moving Defendants that were denied by the CSLB at the conclusion of arbitration
and reflected in the issuance of the CSLB’s Arbitration Award. Lastly,
Plaintiff fails to show that the SAC can be successfully amended to exclude the
claims which were adjudicated via the CSLB’s arbitration proceeding. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the first, third, fourth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action are SUSTAINED
without leave to amend on the grounds of claim preclusion. 
Motion to Strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time
limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)   
“The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) 
As
discussed in the ruling on the demurrer, the first, third, fourth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action of the SAC are
barred by claim preclusion/res judicata. Thus, the motion to strike is rendered
moot.