 Case Number:  23STCV09685    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 1, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Vergara as successor for Felix Dominguez Escudero
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Walton
Construction (“Walton”), Decro Corporation (“Decro”), GTO Security Corp. (“GTO”),
Alex Taylor (“Taylor”), and Does 1-20 for negligence/negligence per se,
premises liability, and wrongful death. 
On
June 16, 2023, Walton filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Roes 1-50 for express indemnity, equitable indemnity, comparative partial
indemnity, and declaratory relief.  On September
25, 2023, Walton amended its cross-complaint to add Cross-Defendants Taylor as
Roe 1 and GTO as Roe 2. 
On
July 3, 2023, Decro filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Walton, GTO, Taylor, and Roes 1-25 for express indemnity, implied equitable
indemnity, equitable apportionment of fault, contribution, breach of contract,
and declaratory relief.  On August 25,
2023, Decro filed a first amended cross-complaint.  On September 25, 2023, Walton filed an answer
to Decro’s first amended cross-complaint. 
On
December 6, 2023, Walton filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses
to form interrogatories, set one. 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 28, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
Walton
appeared at an IDC on January 2, 2024. 
Plaintiff did not appear.  The
Court found that Walton had complied with its IDC obligation. 
B.       Timeliness
of motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd, (c).) Failure to file a motion within this time period
constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to the interrogatories.  Walton
filed this motion on December 6, 2023. 
Plaintiff does not dispute the timeliness of the motion. 
C.   Meet and
confer 
“A
motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)  “A meet and confer declaration
must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Walton
has provided a meet and confer declaration. 
Plaintiff does not dispute the adequacy of Walton’s meet and confer efforts. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Walton
has filed a separate statement. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. 
“(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220 provides: 
“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits. 
“(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. 
“(c) If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith
effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.) 
DISCUSSION 
Motion
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to form interrogatories, set one 
Propounded:
June 16, 2023 Responses:   August
3, 2023 Motion filed: December 6, 2023 
          “In
response to a motion to compel answers [citation], the burden is on the party
claiming a privilege to establish whatever preliminary facts are essential to
the claim.  [Citations.]  [¶]  For example, upon asserting the attorney-client
privilege, the client, or the attorney in the client’s absence, must prove that
the attorney-client relationship existed when the communication was made.  Once this showing is made (typically through
declarations), the communications between the lawyer and client are presumed to
have been made in confidence.  [Citations.]
[¶]  Upon such showing, the burden shifts to the
party seeking discovery to disprove those facts or to prove some applicable
statutory exception (e.g., that the privilege has been waived [citation]).”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:192, p. 8C-61.) 
          Plaintiff
has not carried her burden of establishing the preliminary facts essential to
support her assertions of attorney-client privilege and work product protection. 
          With
respect to form interrogatory 9.2, if an expert witness whose identity is
protected by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.230 possesses responsive
documents or material, Plaintiff need not disclose the identity of that expert witness. 
Granted:
      6.4, 6.7, 9.2, 10.2, 12.1, 12.2,
12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 14.1 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Walton Construction to compel
further responses to form interrogatories, set one, as set forth above. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.