 Case Number:  21STCV27987    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 29, 2021, Plaintiff Cynthia Hopes (“Hopes”) filed this action against
Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”), Sergio (Last Name Unknown),
and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
October 21, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
Costco, Sergio (Last Name Unknown), and Does 1-50 for negligence and premises
liability. 
On
October 26, 2021, the Court struck the first amended complaint, overruled
Costco’s demurrer, and ordered Costco to answer. 
On
November 24, 2021, Costco filed an answer. 
On November
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash Costco’s deposition subpoena served on Anthem Blue Cross (“Anthem”), to be heard on
January 23, 2024.  On January 9, 2024, Costco filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for July 23, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court quash or limit Costco’s deposition subpoena served on Anthem. 
Costco
requests that the Court deny the motion because it is moot. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g),
provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production.
The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate
the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records. 
* * *
  “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been
brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is
pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . .
.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.6, subdivision (f),
provides: 
“(1) Any employee whose employment records are sought
by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion
under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the
bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and the deposition
officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice
to the deposition officer does not invalidate the motion to quash or modify the
subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an
affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of
records. 
“(2) Any nonparty employee whose employment records
are sought by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior to the date of production,
serve on the subpoenaing party, the deposition officer, and the witness a
written objection that cites the specific grounds on which production of the
employment records should be prohibited. 
“(3) No witness or deposition officer shall be
required to produce employment records after receipt of notice that the motion
has been brought by an employee, or after receipt of a written objection from a
nonparty employee, except upon order of the court in which the action is
pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and employees affected. 
“(4) The party requesting an employee’s employment
records may bring a motion under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 to enforce the
subpoena within 20 days of service of the written objection. The motion shall
be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at
informal resolution of the dispute between the party requesting the employment
records and the employee or the employee’s attorney.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.6,
subd. (f).)  
As a
general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would be admissible evidence at
trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy,
limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and financial
matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the litigant’s
right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to maintain
reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Ibid.) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on November 19, 2020, as Plaintiff walked through one of
Costco’s stores, she tripped on an empty pallet and fell, suffering injuries. 
B.   Deposition subpoena served on Anthem 
On November
2, 2023, Costco served a deposition subpoena on Anthem requesting the following records: 
“THE RECORDS REQUESTED ARE regardless of date FOR THE
FOLLOWING TYPES OF RECORDS: ANY AND ALL DOCUMENTS OF PAYMENT AND/OR DISCOUNT
REGARDING POLICY NUMBER JQC92326199A AND ANY MEDICAL BILLING AS WELL AS THE
BILLS THEMSELVES, BILLING INFORMATION, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO PROCEDURE,
SERVICE AND DIAGNOSIS CODES, STATEMENTS, COMPUTER PRINTOUTS, ITEMIZED BREAKDOWN
OF ALL CHARGES, PAYMENTS, ADJUSTMENTS/WRITE-OFFS OR BALANCE DUE, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, ALL CHARGES, CREDITS, PAYMENTS, ADJUSTMENTS AND/OR WRITE-OFFS,
AND THE SOURCES OF EACH, SUCH AS EOB'S, EXPLANATION OF BENEFITS FORM AND
STATEMENT OF CHARGES RENDERED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY RECORDS OR
DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE STORED DIGITALLY OR ELECTRONICALLY FROM ANY NSURANCE
CARRIER, REFLECTING ANY AND ALL CREDITS AND ADJUSTMENTS AND WRITE-OFFS TO THE
BILLING BY VIRTUE OF ANY PAYMENTS AND/OR CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS/ADJUSTMENTS,
INCLUDING FEES FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AND MEDICARE, MEDICAID, DISABILITY
BENEFITS RECORDS, CORRESPONDENCE AND MEMORANDA RELATING TO CYNTHIA HOPES, DOB:
9/8/1952 SS#: XXX-XX-2496.” 
          Plaintiff served an objection to the deposition subpoena
asserting overbreadth and violation of Plaintiff’s privacy rights. 
C.   Plaintiff’s arguments 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash the subpoena because, according to Plaintiff, the
subpoena is overbroad in time and scope, it violates Plaintiff’s privacy
rights, and it seeks irrelevant medical information.  If the Court declines to quash the subpoena, Plaintiff
requests that the Court narrow its scope to the parts of Plaintiff’s body injured
in her fall and limit responses to five years of records, with the understanding
that if Costco finds information indicating that Plaintiff suffered from any
condition or illness relevant to this action beyond the five year mark, Defendant
may attempt to obtain additional records. 
D.   Costco’s opposition 
Costco
argues that it withdrew the deposition subpoena, mooting Plaintiff’s motion.  Costco states: “Following meet and confer
efforts, the subpoena was reissued with the time limitation agreed upon by
counsel. Counsel for Plaintiff was also notified that Anthem Blue Cross cannot
limit records based on body part limitation, which also makes sense because
health insurers do no[t] maintain records of treatment.”  (Opposition p. 3.) 
According
to Costco, Plaintiff refused Costco’s request to take the motion off calendar. 
E.   Analysis 
Plaintiff
has not filed a reply explaining why her motion to quash presents a live issue despite
Costco’s withdrawal of the deposition subpoena that is the subject of the
motion. 
The
Court denies the motion as moot. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Cynthia Hopes’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena
served by Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation on Anthem Blue Cross. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.