 Case Number:  BC711642    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO FURTHER BIFURCATE BIFURCATED ALTER EGO PHASE OF TRIAL
 
Delis v.
Montecito Financial Services, et al., and related cross-actions, Case No. BC711642
Hearing
Date: December 20, 2024, 8:30 a.m.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
          On November
16, 2022, November 30, 2022 and January 23, 2023, the Hon. Bruce G. Iwasaki - who
was previously assigned to hear this case - entered separate rulings each
denying motions for summary adjudication brought by different sets of the
some-twenty defendants in this case. 
          The first
ruling concerned the motion of Pacific Auto Recycling Center, Inc. (“PARC”),
Cordova Investments, Inc. (CA), Cordova Investments, Inc. (NV), Coral Keswick,
LLC (“Keswick”) and 300 W. Glenoaks, LLC (“Glenoaks”).
           The second
ruling concerned the motion of Stephen Hall and the so-called Borrower
Defendants. 
         The third motion
concerned the motion of Robert Hall and Robert Hall & Associates
(“RH&A”). 
          On October 4,
2024, at an initial status conference before the undersigned - assigned to hear
this long-cause trial - the parties stipulated to bifurcate the alter ego
claims of Plaintiffs from other causes of action, including Plaintiffs’ fraud
claims that would be heard by a jury. The parties agreed further that the alter
ego phase would be heard by the Court before the jury phase. 
 
CONTENTIONS 
          In their
motion, filed November 26, 2024, Defendants seek to bifurcate the already bifurcated
alter ego phase of trial. They would limit the first phase of the alter ego
phase to Robert Hall, the Cordova entities, Keswick, Glenoaks and PARC. In
turn, the second phase of the alter ego trial would be limited to RH&A,
Stephen Hall, the Borrower Defendants, the Non-Borrower Defendants, Brad
Weidmann (“Wiedmann”) and OROCK. They also propose that the alleged fraudulent
transfers be determined as part of the alter ego phase of trial. According to
the motion, the parties disagree about Judge Iwasaki’s rulings vis-à-vis
whether to bifurcate the alter ego phase. Plaintiffs seek to prove that all the
entity defendants should be found to be the alter ego of the three individual
defendants as part of a “single enterprise.” 
Defendants collectively assert three reasons the Court should grant the
motion: 
          First, the Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) does not assert a “single enterprise” theory. Even if
the Court construes that it does, Plaintiffs cannot prove that the Cordova
entities, Keswick, Glenoaks and PARC were part of a single enterprise with the
Borrower Defendants and other entity defendants.
          Second, Plaintiffs
will not be able to prove that many of the entities were alter egos of all three
individual defendants – which is also inconsistent with the allegations of the
TAC as to which entities are the alter ego of Robert Hall (as opposed to of
Stephen Hall and or Wiedmann.)  
          Third,
Plaintiffs misconstrue Judge Iwasaki’s rulings to infer the Court concluded
there was substantial evidence to support alter ego and single enterprise
liability as to all defendants. The Court found merely that there were triable
issues of material fact. In fact, to the extent alter ego liability is asserted
here based on certain alleged fraudulent transfers, most of the transfers in
question were as against those parties which Defendants contend should be made the
proposed second phase of the alter ego phase of trial.  
          In their
Opposition filed December 9, 2024, Plaintiffs contend that they have alleged from
the outset that all defendants are the alter ego of each other and that there
is overlap of ownership and control of the defendants in the proposed two
phases of the alter ego phase of trial such that they cannot be separated –
consistent with Judge Iwasaki’s rulings (various findings of which they
summarize.) Plaintiffs also provide an initial explanation of how the different
defendants are connected as far as Plaintiffs’ investment of over $3.6 million
that is at issue, as well as a chart showing the equity interests of different
Hall family members in each of the entities. In addition, Plaintiffs contend
that at least eleven witnesses would have to testify twice and that the
proposed bifurcation would be inefficient and unduly prejudicial to Plaintiffs.
For example, the defendants - not parties to any first phase of the alter ego
phase of trial - might not then be bound for purposes of the second phase. 
           Plaintiffs also
dispute the reasons Defendants advanced in support of the motion: Pp. 26-31 of
the FAC is proof they alleged a single enterprise theory. Judge Iwasaki’s
rulings confirm that the entity defendants were the alter ego of the three
individuals. Defendants miss the point as to Judge Iwasaki’s rulings; He may
not have been able to conclude as a matter of law that Plaintiffs prevail but
that is not to say he did not find evidence that supported their case. Consideration
of which defendants were involved in the alleged fraudulent transfers is only
one piece of evidence that needs to be considered in assessing alter ego
liability.   
           In their Reply filed December 13,
2024, Defendants argue principally that Plaintiffs have not addressed that to
prevail on their alter ego theory they would have to show wrongdoing or bad
faith, in addition to the other elements at issue (see Sonora Diamond
Corp. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 539, Mid-Century Ins. Co. v.
Gardner (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1213), and that they have not
done so.  
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          In the
January 23, 2023 ruling, the Court made several important points: 
          At p. 11,
concerning alter ego: 
          First, that
it had previously found the alter ego allegations sufficient in denying
RH&A’s motion to strike by order of Feb. 22, 2022, p. 7. 
          Second, Defendants’
declarations are “insufficient to show that corporate formalities were
observed, the entities were adequately capitalized upon formation, and that
each entity “maintained separate personality from each of its principals.”…Moreover,
Plaintiffs provide ample rebuttal evidence. For example, neither Wiedmann nor
Stephen Hall contributed capital to numerous entities. (Citation omitted) Wiedmann
also admitted that Plaintiffs’ investments would not be used for the purposes
for which they were invested. (Citation omitted) Other evidence shows that the
funds were extensively diverted and commingled with funds in other entities’
bank accounts. (Citations omitted) The Court also incorporates its prior
analysis on alter ego on Stephen Hall’s motion for summary adjudication, which
raised many of the same arguments. (Order, Nov. 30, 2022, pp. 6-9.) This is
enough to create a triable issue of fact.” 
          Third, “[a]dditionally,
this same evidence supports a triable issue of fact on single-enterprise
liability, which is a type of alter ego liability that is used to reach the
assets between “’sister [or affiliated] companies.’” (Cam-Carson, LLC v.
Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 550.)” 
          Fourth, “[a]s
to inequitable results if the corporate veil is not pierced, the Court
previously held that Plaintiffs produced evidence that if Defendants are not
found to be an alter ego of the entity Defendants, this would be unjust because
many of the entities are insolvent. (Citation omitted); See Relentless Air Racing,
LLC v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
811, 813) The same holds true here. Accordingly, there is a triable issue of
fact as to whether Robert Hall, RH&A, and the entity Defendants are alter
egos of each other and the motion is denied as to alter ego liability.” 
         At pp. 13-15,
as to fraudulent conveyance: 
         The Court
again found triable issues of fact as to the seventh through ninth causes of
action, rejecting Moving Parties’ arguments that there could be no liability. 
          See also
p. 9 of November 16, 2022 ruling (again finding a triable issue as to alter ego
liability). 
          Therefore,
in some ways, both Plaintiffs and Defendants are correct. Defendants are
correct that the Court ruled only that there were triable issues of fact. It
did not make any ultimate findings. On the other hand, Plaintiffs are correct
that the foregoing statements rebut the argument made on this motion that
Plaintiffs cannot proceed in the way they propose or that there is good cause
to further bifurcate the bifurcated alter ego phase of trial. It is apparent
that there is at least some evidence to support Plaintiffs proceeding in this
way. Plaintiffs are permitted to put on the case they have alleged as to alter
ego liability – which encompasses all defendants as part of the alleged “single
enterprise” theory. Whether Plaintiffs can prove their case - in whole or in
part – after weighing of the evidence which the Court could not do previously -
obviously remains to be seen. This evidence seemingly will include transactions
alleged to be fraudulent.[1] In
summary, that Judge Iwasaki ruled that there were triable issues of fact does
not mean that this Court, as trier of fact, will conclude that Plaintiffs
prevail. 
          Relatedly,
the Court does not reach the underlying issues that the motion seeks to address
as to whether Plaintiffs have a viable claim if their principal argument is
merely they will not be able to recover from a judgment proof borrower. This is
merely a motion to bifurcate. Moreover, whether there is alter ego liability is
fact-specific equitable determination that is driven by a variety of
considerations that this Court cannot decide until hearing all the evidence. (Troyk
v. Farmers Group (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1341, Associated
Vendors v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838-840) 
          Nonetheless,
the Court finds, however, that Defendants have not satisfied the requirements
of CCP sec. 598 for further bifurcating the later ego phase of trial where (1)
Plaintiffs show that to do so is likely to cause inefficiencies and undue
expense and (2) the burdens on certain defendants having to participate in what
was originally scheduled to be an extremely long trial have been significantly
mitigated already by the parties’ agreeing to the Court’s suggestions as to how
to break up the trial in this case to reduce the total time needed by
addressing certain issues before others. Further, the proposed bifurcation
appears to separate defendants whose potential liability may rest on facts
related to other defendants. Significantly, the proposal of the motion
conflicts with how Judge Iwasaki divided the defendants in ruling on the
summary judgment motions.  
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 
 

