  Case Number:  19STPB02306    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTIONS
TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF RECORDS BY NON-PARTIES   
 
In the
Matter of the Clarence P. Loffarelli and Phyllis G. Loffarelli Living Trust,
dated April 3, 2004, Case No. 19STPB02306 (related to Case No. 19STPB06111 and
consolidated with 19STPB07349) 
Hearing
Date: December 20, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          On March 12,
2019, John Loffarelli (“John”) filed a petition to recover from his brother
Frank Loffarelli (“Frank”) seven pieces of real property itemized in the
petition, title to which transferred to Frank upon the passing of their mother
Phyllis Loffarelli (“Phyllis”) on November 8, 2018 based on Frank and Phyllis holding
those properties in joint tenancy, as well as for related relief.[1] In
summary, John contends Frank exercised undue influence over Phyllis in 2015 to persuade
her to put those properties into joint tenancy with him. John contends that
Phyllis intended that the properties should be part of the Clarence Loffarelli
and Phyllis Loffarelli Trust dated April 3, 2004. Under the terms of that
Trust, John is to receive a one sixth share of the Trust, together with his
five siblings (or their children), namely, Frank, Thomas, Christopher, Diana
and Daniel (and in the case of Christopher and Diana, their children). 
          On May 15,
2019, Frank filed Opposition and Objections to the petition. Among other
things, Frank asserts that Phyllis intended only that one different property be
an asset of the Trust, not the seven referenced in the petition. Frank also
denies exercising undue influence over Phyllis and contends that it was the
other siblings who improperly sought to unsuccessfully persuade their mother to
leave these properties for all of them. Indeed, Thomas has previously sought
the same relief as John does here, on which complaint Thomas did not prevail.[2] The
Trust has a no-contest clause disentitling any beneficiary who challenges the
Trust. 
 
 
CONTENTIONS 
 
          On November
20, 2024, John filed three motions to compel production of business records
from respectively, AT & T, American Express Co. and Direct Resources
Insurance Administrative Services (“Direct Resources”). 
          As concerns
the AT & T motion, John contends that he is seeking phone records for a
six-month period in 2015 (when the joint tenancy deeds were executed) from
Martha, a non-party (but an interested person as Frank’s wife), as well as the
individuals and company involved in drafting the deeds, David Litt, Teresa Litt
and their business, Select Mortgage. Martha objected to signing releases for
production of the release of the records – necessitating this motion.[3]
John references deposition testimony confirming Martha’s involvement in
Phyllis’ execution of the deeds, notwithstanding Martha stating that she “had
no involvement” with the transactions at issue and that the subpoena to AT
& T violated her right of privacy. John argues that the documents sought
may reasonably lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, including
corroborating or disputing deposition testimony, and that Martha’s involvement,
if any, is directly tied to what level of involvement Frank had – the key issue
in this case. John contends this need outweighs any privacy right Martha has in
these records.   
          On December
9, 2024, Frank and Martha filed opposition to the motion directed to AT &
T. They assert that this request is a “fishing expedition,” that the basis for
the motion is mere speculation that she was a “conduit” between Phyllis and the
Litts / Select and that as a non-party Martha’s rights of privacy in these
records should prevail here. They assert also that any communications with the
Litts / Select would only be relevant as far as Frank is concerned (not her)
and that John has already taken her deposition (as well as of David Litt) and
could have then asked them questions concerning any communications that would
be in these records. 
          On December
13, 2024, John filed a Reply in support of the AT & T motion. He notes that
Martha’s claim she was not involved in these transactions is belied by her
signing interspousal deeds at the same time and driving Phyllis on three
occasions to execute the deeds. 
          As concerns
the American Express motion, John seeks to find out if Frank made any
transactions on any credit card for Phyllis or the Trust in 2015 pursuant to Frank
also having been made a joint holder of that account. David Litt and Teresa
Litt asserted objections to the subpoena to American Express, stating they had
nothing to do with this request. 
          As concerns
the Direct Resources motion, John contends that Frank may have changed the
ownership of, or the designated beneficiary of, a life insurance policy for
Phyllis. David Litt and Teresa Litt asserted objections to the subpoena to Direct
Resources, stating they had nothing to do with this request. 
          No opposition
was filed timely or at all to the motions directed to American Express and Direct
Resources.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          Under CCP
sec. 1987.1(a), courts are to balance the constitutional right of privacy (see
Vinson v. Sup. Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841) as against need for relevant
information reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence. (Valley
Bank of Nevada v. Sup. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 655-656) The right of
privacy protects the individual’s reasonable expectation of privacy
against a serious invasion. (Hill v. Nat’l. Collegiate Athletic Ass’n
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, Puerto v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 250)  If the intrusiveness of the
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, the Court may limit the scope of
the request. (CCP sec. 2017.020(a)) The burden is on the party seeking records.
(Britt v. Sup. Ct. (1970) 20 Cal.3d 844, 852-853, 859) Mere speculation
will not meet that burden. (Davis v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1008, 1017) Courts should also consider whether the requested information can
be secured through non-confidential sources. (Harding Lawson Assoc. v. Sup.
Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 7, 10) 
          The Court
applies these rules as follows:
          As concerns
the AT & T motion, initially the Court finds Martha, though a non-party,
has a lessened reasonable expectation of privacy where this case concerns her
husband, who is a party, and whose interests are on some level presumably
allied with hers. John in fact alleges she acted as a conduit between her
husband’s mother and the Litts / Select. Further, John has presented evidence
rebutting her statement that she was not involved here, including her concurrently
signing interspousal deeds and driving Phyllis to execute the deeds on several
occasions. Hence, the motion is not based only on conjecture, as Frank argued. John
has a right to seek this follow-up evidence to evaluate the truthfulness of the
testimony to date. In contrast, what involvement she had is relevant to Frank’s
involvement – the main issue in this case. In turn, where the validity of
Martha’s statement is in question, John has a right to secure independent
evidence that may support or rebut his claims. Finally, the objections of the
Litts / Select lacks basis where it is their clients’ privacy rights that area
at stake in the production, not theirs. In this regard, these records are not
solely those of Frank but also belong to Phyllis’s estate. Where the competing
petitions between John and Frank to serve as administrator of Phyllis’s estate are
still pending, determining what her records show may also be useful to
determining those petitions.      
          As concerns
the American Express motion, there is no opposition. The objection of the Litts
/ Select is without merit for the same reasons as above. In addition, they
would have no reason to be concerned about records of a different company. There
is good cause for production of these records in view of the parallel claim
that Frank wrongfully induced Phyllis to put him on title as joint tenant. This
evidence may show if Frank was using his mother’s money. 
          As concerns
the Direct Resources motion, again there is no opposition. The objection of the
Litts / Select is without merit for the same reasons as above. In addition, they
would have no reason to be concerned about records of a different company. There
is good cause for production of these records in that this is a parallel claim
to conversion of another asset of Phyllis; i.e., a life insurance policy,
around the same time. This evidence may shed light on execution of the deeds. 
           Thus, John
has met his burden. The Court finds based on the facts here that John’s need
for further information to determine the truth of what occurred here “clearly” outweighs
Frank and Martha’s lessened privacy interests, justifying the limited intrusion
requested.
 
 CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court grants each of the three motions. John shall submit a
proposed order. 
 

