  Case Number:  18SMCV00115    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Baker et al. v.
Maree, Inc., Case No. 18SMCV00115
Hearing Date
February 21, 2024
Cross-Defendant
L.A. Overhead Doors Motion to Compel Further Responses to Written Discovery
(UNOPPOSED) 
 
In this
construction defect case cross-defendant L.A. Overhead Doors served written
discovery on the Baker plaintiffs on August 22, 2023. L.A. Overhead provided
three extensions, but did not receive timely responses. Tangonan decl. ¶¶12-19.
After a December 14, 2024 IDC the court ordered the Bakers to respond by
December 29 and to verify responses by January 5. 12/14/23 minute order. The
Bakers served unverified responses on December 22, 2023, responding to every
category of written discovery except the form interrogatories directed to Jenny
Ljungberg Baker. Tangonan decl. ¶22. 
 
L.A. Overhead has
not received verifications or responses to the form interrogatories. Id.
¶26-27. LA Overhead moves to compel responses to all written discovery without
objection, to deem the requests for admission admitted and for monetary
sanctions. The Bakers have not opposed the motion, and there is no evidence in
opposition to the representations in the Tangonan declaration. 
 
The Tangonan
declaration indicates defendants provided responses to most categories of
written discovery, including requests for admission, within the time limit set at
the IDC. The court will not compel further responses to those categories or
deem the RFAs admitted. The court will, however, order responses to the form
interrogatories, within 15 days without objection. The Bakers are to serve
verifications for all responses already produced, within 10 days. 
 
Because the
Bakers, without justification, violated the IDC order to produce verifications
by January 5, 2023 monetary sanctions are justified. L.A. Overhead requests
sanctions equal to 10 hours of attorney work at $185 per hour, for time spent
on this motion, preparing for and attending the IDC. Time spent in preparation
for the IDC, including preparing the IDC statement, and attending the IDC is
not recoverable. Likewise, moving party seeks 2.5 hours of anticipated time
preparing a reply brief. Since there was no opposition, no reply brief was
filed. The court would consider sanctions for the amount of time expended in
the preparation of and hearing at this motion only. Counsel may provide
supplemental evidence in this regard. The $60 requested filing fee is
appropriate. GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 