 Case Number:  23STLC04517    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  26 Urban Therapies Distribution LLC  v. Treehouse Botanicals Corporation, et al.Motions to Quash
(CCP § 418.10)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: DENY
 
The Motions to Quash filed by Defendants Jillian Goldsmith
and Ariel Mehrban are both DENIED.Background
            On July 18,
2023, Urban Therapies Distribution LLC (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint that
alleges that Plaintiff sold goods and merchandise to Treehouse Botanicals
Corporation (Treehouse), Jillian Goldsmith (Goldsmith), and Ariel Mehrban
(Mehrban). Plaintiff then filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
December 20, 2023, where Plaintiff alleges five causes of action surrounding
the allegations that Treehouse, Goldsmith, and Mehrban all became indebted to
Plaintiff in the sum of $9,249.08. (FAC, ¶ 8-10.) 
 
            The two
motions now before the Court are Motions to Quash the service of Summons and
Amended Complaint (the Motions). The Motions are filed by the individual
defendants Goldsmith and Mehrban (collectively, Moving Defendants). Plaintiff
opposes both Motions and Moving Defendants each file a separate reply.  
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            Pursuant to CCP 418.10(a)(1), a defendant may move to
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court.
Without proper service, a court cannot maintain jurisdiction over the defendant
and any judgment is void. “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
 
            California
Code of Civil Procedure Sections 415.10, 415.20, 415.30, and 415.50 describe
four methods of service within California: (1) personal delivery of copy of
summons and complaint to person to be served; (2) delivery of a copy of summons
and complaint to someone else at defendant’s usual residence or place of
business; (3) service by mail coupled with acknowledgment of receipt of
summons; and (4) service by publication.
 
Analysis
            First, the Court notes that on November 30, 2023, a
hearing was held on the Demurrer filed by Treehouse, Goldsmith, and Mehrban.
Each Defendant also filed a motion to quash service on August 25, 2023, which
was set to be heard concurrently with the Demurrer, however, the motions to
quash were not separately reserved. Instead, Treehouse, Goldsmith and Mehrban
improperly sought to use the same reservation number for the Demurrer to also
hear the motions to quash. The Court chose to not consider the motions to
quash, and only rule on the Demurrer on the November 30, 2023 hearing. All
three Defendants were instructed to separately reserve and pay the requisite
fees for the motions to quash. (See November 20, 2023 Minute Order, pg. 2.) 
 
            Ordinarily, the filing of a Demurrer constitutes a
general appearance, and defendant then forfeits any objection to defective
service. (See CCP § 410.50. Also see Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks
Const., Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.4th 1135, 1145.) Upon reply, Moving Defendants
contend that this Court granted them leave to re-file the instant Motions, and
if the Court were to rule here that the Demurrer constituted a general
appearance, it would render the instant Motions pointless. The Court agrees,
however for the following reasons the Court will deny both Motions on their
merits.
 
a)     
Service on Moving Defendants was proper
            In their moving papers, both Moving Defendants argue that
service of the initial Complaint[1]
upon them was improper because it was served on a cashier at a retail
storefront owned by the entity Defendant, Treehouse. (Motions, 3:8-19.) Moving
Defendants state that on July 26, 2023 at approximately, 1:15pm, the process
server left the cashier a stack of loose papers at the storefront located on
11614 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles, Ca 90066. Moving Defendants then argue that
because neither Mehrban, Goldsmith, nor Treehouse’s agent for service of
process was served in person, that service was improper. However, this is only
true as to entity Defendant Treehouse. 
 
            Pursuant to CCP 416.10, when a summons need be served on
a corporation, it must be served on a designated agent for service of process,
or a president, chief executive officer, vice president, secretary, treasure,
or chief financial officer. However, the instant Motions here are not for
entity Defendant Treehouse, but for the individual Moving Defendants. Here, a
different section applies, specifically, CCP § 415.20 which permits service on
an individual to be performed “by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of
business…in the presence of…a person apparently in charge of his or her
office…” (CCP § 415.20, emphasis added.) The opposition papers demonstrate that
is exactly what the process server did.
            
            The attached exhibits contain proof of service of summons
which show that the summons and complaint were, although not served on the
Moving Defendants personally, were served by substituted service. (Opposition
Papers, Exhs. A & B.) The Process server handed the documents to an
individual working at the store front address, that individual was informed of
the general nature of the contents, and the process server subsequently mailed
the documents to the same address. Pursuant to CCP § 415.20, this is a
permissible way to complete service on an individual. Plaintiff’s reply papers
on silent on this point.        
 
Conclusion
            Therefore,
as service was properly accomplished on both Moving Defendants, the Motions to
Quash as filed by Defendant Jillian Goldsmith and Defendant Ariel Mehrban are
both DENIED.  
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 


