  Case Number:  21STLC02672    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  26  
Xiaofu Zhang v. Long Beach Total Dental Care, et
al. MOTION TO DECLARE VEXATIOUS LITIGANT
(CCP § 391
et seq.) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:  
 
Defendants’ motion to deem Plaintiff a vexatious litigant is GRANTED.¿¿¿ 
 
The Court orders Plaintiff to post a security in the amount of $5,000 within
30 days of the date of this Order.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 391.3, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
The Court further orders that Plaintiff is prohibited from filing any new
litigation in the courts of the State of California in propria persona without
first obtaining leave of the presiding judge or justice of the court where the
litigation is proposed to be filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff Xiaofu Zhang (“Plaintiff”), in pro per, filed the instant
action for dental malpractice against Defendants Ravinder Steven Singh, DDS
(“Defendant Singh”) and Singh Dental Corporation dba Long Beach Total Dental
Care (erroneously sued as Long Beach Total Dental Care) (“Defendant Singh
Dental”) (collectively, Defendants”) on April 5, 2021. Defendants filed an
Answer to the Complaint on October 12, 2021. The Court dismissed the action on
December 20, 2022 and a judgment of dismissal was entered on December 27, 2022.
(Judgment, 12/27/22.)  
 
On March 11, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion for an Order
Declaring Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant and for an Order Requiring Plaintiff
to Post Security in Amount of $20,000. 
No opposition has been filed by Plaintiff. Instead, Plaintiff requests
the Court to extend hearing on Defendants’ motion to sometime in June and July
2024. 
 
Discussion 
 
The vexatious litigant statute “provides a procedure in pending
litigation for declaring a person a vexatious litigant, and establishes
procedure strictures that can be imposed on vexatious litigants.” (In re
Bittaker (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1008.) A court may “issue a prefiling
order that prohibits the vexatious litigant from filing any new litigation
without first obtaining permission of the presiding judge of the court where
the litigation is proposed to be filed.” (Id.) “The vexatious litigant
statute . . . was enacted . . . to curb misuse of the court system by those
acting in propria persona who repeatedly litigate the same issues.” (Id.)
“Their abuse of the system not only wastes court time and resources but also
prejudices other parties waiting their turn before the courts.” (Id.)
“The prefiling order component of the vexatious litigant statute is a necessary
method of curbing those for whom litigation has become a game.” (In re
Natural Gas Antitrust Cases (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 387, 394.) “It does not
deny the vexatious litigant access to the courts, but operates to preclude
meritless litigation and the attendant expenditure of resources.” (Id.)  
 
The definition of a vexatious litigant includes a person who:
 
(2) After a litigation
has been finally determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or
attempts to relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the
determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim,
controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by
the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined.  
 
(3) In any litigation
while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery or engages in other
tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (b)(2) and (3).) “[T]he Legislature’s use
of the adverb repeatedly refers to a past pattern or practice on the part of
the litigant that carries the risk of repetition in the case at hand.” (Goodrich
v. Sierra Vista Regional Medical Center (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1267.)
If the court finds that plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and “has no
reasonable probability of prevailing against the moving defendant,” the court
“must order the plaintiff to furnish security” and “[i]f the plaintiff does not
do so, the action will be terminated.” (Id. at 1265.) “[T]o find that a
litigant is vexatious, the trial court must conclude that the litigant[‘]s
actions are unreasonably impacting the objects of appellant’s actions and the
court as contemplated by the statute.” (Id.) “As few as three motions
might form the basis for a vexatious litigant designation where they all seek
the exact same relief which has already been denied or all related to the same
judgment.” (Id. at 1266.)
 
A trial court has discretion to determine whether a person is a vexatious
litigant. (Singh v. Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813, 828.) Papers in
an action are deemed unmeritorious where they are procedurally deficient and
are deemed frivolous where amendment would be futile. (Id.) Repeated
filings to support a vexatious litigant determination “must be so devoid of
merit and be so frivolous that they can be described as a flagrant abuse of the
system, have no reasonable probability of success, lack reasonable or probable
cause or excuse and are clearly meant to abuse the processes of the courts and
harass the adverse party than other litigants.” (Morton v. Wagner (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 963, 972.)  
 
Defendants’ motion is made on the following grounds: (1) following an
adverse determination of this litigation, Plaintiff has repeatedly relitigated
or attempted to relitigate in propria persona the (i) validity of the
determination against the same Defendants; and/or, (ii) the cause of action,
claims, or any of the issues of fact or law determined by the final
determination against the same Defendants as to whom the litigation was finally
determined; and (2) Plaintiff has repeatedly submitted multiple unmeritorious
papers and/or engaged in tactics that are frivolous and solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. At least seven incomprehensible Motions have been
filed following entry of judgment on December 27, 2022.
 
Defendants
submit evidence that following the entry of judgment on December 27, 2022,
Plaintiff has filed, in pro per, at least seven moving papers with the Court.
Specifically, on
January 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Reconsideration[1]; on March 28, 2023, he
filed a Motion to Vacate; on April 25, 2023, he filed moving papers entitled
“Declaration on have not Received ‘Opposition by ‘Defendants’’ by April 24,
2020, Defendants Attorneys Willfully and intentionally Disabled Plaintiff in Seeking
Justice and Damages While Misleading and Deceiving this Court and Honorable
Judge”; on May 19, 2023, he submitted a document entitled “My Statement ‘The
Termination and Dismissal of this Case based on Defendant’s Attorneys False
Statement, Deception, False and Tampered Evidence, and Concealed Evidence is
Prejudicial, Bias, and Unfair’”; on October 12, 2023, he filed a document that
sought an order to vacate dismissal of his Complaint; on November 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a document entitled "Plaintiff New Discovery and
Application for a Court Order and Order Defendants and/or Their Attorneys to
Produce Complete Medical Records Including Photos of X-Ray of My Teeth on
January 16, 2016 and on April 18, 2020”; on December 15, 2023, he submitted a declaration
entitled “Declaration of Damages by Defendants and Their Attorneys, Evidence of
Damages”; and, on February 27, 2024, he filed a Notice of Appeal with this
Court.  (Declaration of Irene Yousefi; ¶¶
3-13; Exs. A-I.)  
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s post judgment motions and documents presented no new
facts, circumstances or law and were devoid of substance, thus serving no
functional purpose.  (Motion p. 8.)  Also, Plaintiff asked the Court to vacate
judgment on at least three occasions despite this Court no longer having
jurisdiction to do so. (Id.)  Defendants
also note Plaintiff repeatedly ignored this Court’s orders and pursued frivolous
motions and filings, none of which were granted in his favor. (Id. at
9.)  
 
Based on Defendants’ arguments and in light of Plaintiff’s failure to
oppose this motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff has no reasonable
probability of prevailing against the Defendants in this action. Defendants have
produced sufficient evidence in the form of the seven motions filed by
Plaintiff following entry
of judgment on December 27, 2022. 
 
For purposes of the vexatious litigant statute, a security is “an
undertaking to assure payment, to the party for whose benefit the undertaking
is required to be furnished, of the party’s reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in or in connection
with a litigation instituted, caused to be instituted, or maintained or caused
to be maintained by a vexatious litigant.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd. (c).)
Defendants request that the Court require Plaintiff to furnish security in the
amount of $20,000 because of the approximate cost it will take for defending
this matter if Plaintiff continues to file papers with the Court. (Yousefi
Decl.
¶ 2.) The Court beleives $5,000 would be sufficient security. Defendants further request this Court issue a pre-filing order
prohibiting Plaintiff from filing any new litigation in the Courts of the State
of California without first obtaining leave where litigation is proposed to be
filed.  This request is well-taken.
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the Defendants’ motion to deem Plaintiff a
vexatious litigant.¿¿¿ 
 
The Court orders Plaintiff to post a security in the amount of $5,000 within
30 days of the date of this Order.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.3, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
The Court further orders that Plaintiff is prohibited from filing any new
litigation in the courts of the State of California in propria persona without
first obtaining leave of the presiding judge or justice of the court where the
litigation is proposed to be filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7,
subd.¿(a).)¿ 
 
Moving party to give notice.   
 


