 Case Number:  23STLC03340    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  26   
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
(CCP §§ 428.10, 429.10(b), and 428.50(c).)
 
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANT
 
Southern California Edison Company’s Motion for Leave to
File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.Background
            Cristian
Radulescu (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on May 22, 2023 against Southern
California Edison (Defendant) alleging one cause of action for negligence after
an electrical pole fell on Plaintiff’s truck on January 13, 2022. (Complaint, ¶¶
3 and 8.) The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion for Leave to
File a Cross-Complaint (the Motion). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
A cross-complaint may be filed by
anyone against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed. (CCP §
428.10.) The cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the Court has set
a date for trial. (CCP § 428.50(b).) If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive, leave of court may be granted "in the interest of
justice" at any time during the course of the action. (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50 (c).)
 
Analysis
            Defendant requests leave to file a cross-complaint
because Defendant has reason to believe that there exist third parties who bear
liability, specifically: (1) the City of Commerce, (2) Kafil Construction, (3)
Bruce Johan Kafil, and (4) Lotus LA LLC. (Motion, 3:8-9.) Defendant argues that
granting the Motion is in the interests of justice because it will help avoid
additional litigation and discovery expense. Moreover, the cross-claims that
Defendant is proposing arise from the same incident alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint. Finally, Defendant has reason to believe that the aforementioned
third parties may be liable in a similar incident that occurred on the same date
at the same location. (See Declaration of Chelsea T. Ner, ¶ 6.) Therefore, the
Motion is granted.         
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Southern California Edison Company’s Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
is GRANTED. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 