 Case Number:  20STCV40296    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



STEVEN KATLEMAN, an individual: JANET KATLEMAN, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DEWITT STERN OF CALIFORNIA INSURANCE SERVICES, a California
  entity; DEWITT STERN GROUP, a corporation; RISK STRATEGIES COMPANY, a
  corporation; JANICE RUIZ, an individual; SARA NEIDLINGER, an individual;
  E&S INSPECTION INC., a California corporation; AMWINS ACCESS INSURANCE
  SERVICES, LLC, a limited liability company; AMWINS INSURANCE BROKERAGE OF
  CALIFORNIA, LLC, a California limited liability company; ENGLE, MARTIN &
  ASSOCIATES, INC, a corporation; and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV40296
 Hearing Date:   9/26/23
 Trial Date:        4/30/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant AmWins
  Access Insurance Services, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
  Alternative, Summary Adjudication.



 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
Plaintiffs Steven Katleman and Janet Katleman (the Katleman Plaintiffs) brought an
October 12, 2021 Third Amended Complaint (TAC) suing Defendants Dewitt Stern of
California Insurance Services (Dewitt Ins. Servs.), Dewitt Stern Group (Dewitt
Group) (collectively with Dewitt Ins. Servs., the Dewitt Defendants), Risk
Strategies Company (Risk Strategies Co.), Janice Ruiz, Sara Neidlinger, E&S
Inspection, Inc. (E&S Inspection), AmWins Access Insurance Services, LLC
(AmWins Access), AmWins Insurance Brokerage of California, LLC (AmWins Ins.),
Eagle, Martin & Associates, Inc. (Eagle Martin), and Does 1-50 pursuant to
claims of (1) Negligence, (2) Intentional/Negligent Misrepresentation, (3)
Intentional/Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Breach of Contract, (5) Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (6) Breach of Contract, and
(7) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, the Katleman
Plaintiffs were the owners of property located at 1945 Overhill Road, Agoura,
California 91301 (Subject Property), which was (1) insured in 2012 by the
Dewitt Defendants, Risk Strategies Co., AmWins Access, AmWins Ins., and Does
1-25 (Insurer Defendants) through Lexington Insurance Company and then, in
2018, through certain underwriters in Lloyd’s, London, (2) undervalued based on
an October 1, 2018 appraisal by E&S Inspections, Inc., and (3) destroyed in
the Woolsey fire on November 8, 2018, resulting in a loss of use, where, due to
the undervaluation of the Subject Property, the property was undervalued and
underinsured (including as to replacement value), the insurance policy was
inadequate, and the Katleman Plaintiffs underinsured for the loss of use of the
property.
The action was originally assigned to Department 50 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse, the Honorable Teresa A. Beaudet presiding.
Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication
On August 8, 2022, AmWins Access
moved for summary judgment or adjudication of the TAC’s first, third, sixth,
and seventh causes of action for negligence, intentional misrepresentation,
breach of contract, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. (These are the only claims advanced against AwWins Access in the TAC.)
The motion was set for hearing on February 2, 2023.
On August 12, 2023, Department 50
heard an ex parte application by AmWins Access to advance the hearing date for
its motion, which Department 50 granted, advancing the hearing to October 25,
2022.
On October 11, 2022, the Katleman
Plaintiffs opposed the AmWins Access motion.
On October 20, 2022, AmWins Access
replied to the opposition.
Disclosure, Peremptory Strike,
and Reassignment
On October 21, 2022, Judge Beaudet
posted a Disclosure and Order, in which she disclosed that a person who is a
plaintiff in the case against Southern California Edison Company regarding the
Malibu fire (aka the Woolsey fire) had been staying with Judge Beaudet and her
husband since December 8, 2021 and could be staying with Judge Beaudet and her
husband for the foreseeable future. The disclosure stated that Judge Beaudet
did not believe her situation would bias her for or against any party but
ordered the parties to file a verified statement of disqualification by October
27, 2022 if any party believed that Judge Beaudet would be so biased.
On October 25, 2022, Department 50
continued the hearing on the summary judgment or adjudication motion to October
31, 2022.
On October 27, 2022, the Dewitt
Defendants, Risk Strategies Co., Janice Ruiz, and Sara Neidlinger filed a
verified statement of disqualification against Judge Beaudet.
On October 31, 2022, Department 50
held a hearing on AmWins Access’s motion, in which Judge Beaudet stated her
reasons for declining to hear this case—with which the Supervising Judge and
Court Counsel agreed—and returned the case to Department 1/the Supervising
Judge for reassignment.
On November 1, 2022, Department 1
reassigned this action to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
Department 40 Proceedings
On November 7, 2022, Department 40
issued a Notice of Case Management Conference (CMC) to take place on February
8, 2023.
On January 20, 2023, the CMC was
continued to June 14, 2023.
On June 14, 2023, Department 40
(the Court), among other things, set jury trial for April 30, 2024 and set the
hearing on AmWins Access’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication for
August 3, 2023.
On August 3, 2023, AmWins’ motion
came before the Court, at which time the Court continued the hearing on this
motion to September 26, 2023. The continuance was granted to give AmWins the
opportunity to modify its separate statement and evidence to correct the
mistaken cites advanced in their motion.
On August 31, 2023, AmWins filed
amended separate statements and an amended compendium of exhibits.
AmWins’ motion is now before the
Court again.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
Opposition Evidentiary
Objections to Motion
Objection Nos. 1-2: Not ruled on as
not material to disposition of motion.
Reply Evidentiary Objections to
Opposition
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED [Lacks Foundation;
Evid. Code § 403(a)(4).]
Objection No. 2: Not ruled on as
not material to disposition of motion.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication
Legal
Standard
A
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact for trial or that the
moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) A party may also seek summary adjudication of select causes
of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which
may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary
judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary
judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t); see Lilienthal
& Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855,
questioned by dictum in Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1092,
1094, fn. 2 [finding that summary adjudication may be granted as to separate
factual grounds supporting a claim stated as a single count because the
separate grounds state a separate cause of action].) The moving party bears the
initial burden of production to make prima facie showing no triable material
fact issues. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
850.) This burden on summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of
persuasion rather than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no
material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such
fact to the satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the
trier of fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
I.
TAC,
First Cause of Action, Negligence: GRANTED.
“‘The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due
care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.”’” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
The
TAC’s first cause of action is directed at the Dewitt Defendants, Risk
Strategies Co., AmWins Access, AmWins Ins., Janice Ruiz, Sara Neidlinger, and
Does 1-25 and alleges that the Katleman Plaintiffs requested that these
Defendants obtain “appropriate and adequate insurance” for the full value of
the Subject Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the property, and
for loss of use of the Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the
Property, and/or represented to the Plaintiffs that the Subject Property was
adequately and properly insured, and/or represented to the Plaintiffs that they
were fully covered in the event of a total loss, only for these Defendants to
negligently, carelessly, and/or recklessly fail to obtain the promised insurance
and misrepresent the nature, extent or scope of coverage on the Property to
Plaintiffs. (TAC, ¶¶ 9, 15-16; see TAC, ¶¶ 13-21.) The claim also alleges that
the Katleman Plaintiffs had informed these Defendants that the Subject Property
was undervalued and underinsured, damaging the Katleman Plaintiffs when the
property was destroyed in the Woolsey fire, with damages exceeding $75,000, in
addition to foreseeable consequential and incidental damages to be proved at
trial. (TAC, ¶¶ 17-19; see TAC, ¶¶ 13-21.)
AmWins
Access provides three arguments against this claim: lack of duty; lack of
breach; and lack of causation. (Mot., pp. 13-14.)
A. Lack of Duty
AmWins
Access argues that it did not owe the Katleman Plaintiffs a duty to obtain for
them “appropriate and adequate insurance”—defined in the pleadings and papers
as replacement cost for rebuilding the Subject Property in the event of a total
loss—because (1) “[w]hile Plaintiffs may have instructed Dewitt as their broker
to procure ‘appropriate’ insurance, it is undisputed that Dewitt asked AmWINS
to procure the same coverage that Plaintiffs had under their prior policy”
(Mot., p. 13 [referencing Mot., Separate Statement (Sep. St.), Undisputed
Material Fact [UMF] No. 8]) and (2) “AmWINS procured a quote for Dewitt to
provide to Plaintiffs which contained the same coverage that Plaintiffs had
under their prior policy” (Mot., p. 13 [referencing Mot., Amended Sep. St., UMF
No. 9]). Otherwise stated, the insurance issuer (AmWins through Lloyd’s London)
cannot have had a duty to secure a ‘guaranteed replacement cost’ policy for
Plaintiffs – funds needed to completely rebuild the home in case of a total
loss -- where the broker (Dewitt) only asked AmWins to secure an insurance
policy matching Plaintiffs’ prior policy terms with Lexington.
UMF
No. 8 refers to evidence showing that “Dewitt asked AmWINS to procure for
Plaintiffs the same level of coverage that Plaintiffs had under their prior
policy that was issued by Lexington Insurance Company.” (See Mot., Amended Sep.
St., UMF No. 8 [referencing parts of Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Exs. 1, 3, 6,
8-9.) Exhibit 1 contains the deposition of Defendant Sara Neidlinger, a former
employee of the Dewitt Defendants and Risk Strategies Co. (Mot., Amended Comp.
Evid., Ex. 1, 17:8-18:9.) At one of the referenced cites, Defendant Neidlinger
testifies to having asked an Amanda Reis—an AmWins Access employee (TAC, Ex. 3,
p. 00054)—to secure for Plaintiffs a new insurance policy that matched the
terms of their prior Lexington policy. (Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 1,
173:6-17.) Other cites from the Neidlinger deposition reiterate this
representation. (See Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 1, 43:1-44:7 [Neidlinger
confirming she asked AmWins for insurance coverage in favor of Plaintiffs, with
the same terms as the Lexington policy, but at a better price].) A copy of the
Lexington quote provided to AmWins Access by Defendant Niedlinger is attached
as Exhibit 6 to the Amended Compendium of Evidence. Other evidence also confirms
that DeWitt asked AmWins to secure insurance limits for Plaintiffs matching
those previously provided to Plaintiffs by Lexington. (Mot., Amended Comp.
Evid., Ex. 8, 9.)
UMF
No. 9 refers to evidence showing that “[t]he AmWINS quote for the policy that
it procured for DeWitt to provide to Plaintiffs contained the same coverage
that Plaintiffs had under their prior policy issued by Lexington Insurance
Company.” (Mot., Amended Sep. St., UMF No. 9, referencing parts of Mot.,
Amended Comp. Evid., Exs. 1, 3, 5, 7.) Exhibit 5 shows the Lloyd’s policy that
was secured by AmWins Access, which provided for “[d]welling coverage”—i.e., a
replacement cost—of $632,141. (Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 5, COE p. 137, Coverage
Limits, § 1.) Exhibit 7 shows DeWitt informing AmWins Access that the
replacement cost limit for the Property under the Lexington policy was
$632,000. (Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 7, COE p. 225.)
The
Court finds that this evidence carries AmWins Access’s burden on summary
adjudication. If AmWins Access was only asked to secure homeowner’s coverage matching
that provided in the Lexington policy previously held by the Katleman
Plaintiffs—i.e., $632,141 in replacement cost insurance by Lloyds, where the
same insurance limit under Lexington was $632,000—then it is unclear how or why
AmWins Access owed a duty to the Katleman Plaintiffs to secure insurance in a
greater amount than $632,141.
In
opposition, the Katleman Plaintiffs make varied arguments for why AmWins Access
owed a duty to Plaintiffs to provide insurance coverage that would permit
Plaintiffs to completely rebuild their home in the event of its total
destruction. (Opp’n, pp. 11-13; see Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Ex. 27 [Ptizer
Construction Company, Inc.’s January 11, 2020 Estimate showing an approximate
cost of $2,287,417.88 to rebuild the Property].)
None
of these arguments, however, address AmWins Access’s position that AmWins
access was explicitly asked to provide insurance coverage in the same amount as
the Lexington policy, including the replacement cost term. Even Plaintiffs’
argument that AmWins Access made an inspection of the Property and determined
that the replacement cost limit of $632,141 was “appropriate and adequate” does
not show that AmWins Access had contractually agreed to provide guaranteed
replacement cost insurance. 
Moreover,
Plaintiffs’ evidence to show that they were informed by AmWins Access that the
replacement cost coverage in the Lloyd’s insurance policy would suffice to
completely rebuild their home in the event of a total loss does not actually
stand for that proposition or is unconvincing for lack of foundation. (See
Opp’n, AMF Nos. 42, 135, 138.)
The
AmWins Access PMQ deposition attached to the opposition shows testimony
providing that the investigation performed by AmWins Access in setting the
policy limits is used “to determine whether or not the [replacement cost
coverage] limits are justified” and “to make sure that the insured is not
overinsured.” (See Opp’n, Nickerson Decl., Ex. 7, AmWins PMQ Deposition,
24:23-25:4 [referenced in Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF No. 42.) Whether the amount of
coverage is justified and whether Plaintiffs were overinsured involve questions
vastly different than whether the replacement cost coverage would allow
Plaintiffs to completely rebuild their home. As a result, any argument in the
opposition relying on AmWins Access’s inspection of the Property in setting
policy limits is unavailing because if the purpose of the inspection was to
ensure that the replacement cost coverage limit in fact issued by Lloyd’s was
indeed justified and that Plaintiffs were not overinsured, then there was no
duty created as to guaranteed replacement cost coverage.
As
for the Katleman Plaintiffs’ declaration, the Court finds that the declaration provides
insufficient foundation for the reasons why Plaintiffs would appropriately be
under the impression that the replacement cost coverage in the Lloyd’s
insurance policy would allow them to completely rebuild their home in the event
of a total loss. (See Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶ 6 [referenced in Opp’n, Sep.
St., AMF No. 135]; see also Evidentiary Objections discussion supra, sustaining
objection to this statement.) Moreover, AmWins Access’s alleged
“represent[ation] … that the inspection was adequate, accurate, and proper and
that [Plaintiffs] had enough insurance to cover the cost to rebuild [their]
home in the event of a total loss, and that the insurance that we had was
appropriate and adequate” (1) lacks sufficient foundation as to how and by whom
these alleged representations were made by AmWins Access and (2) are undercut
by the deposition of AmWins Access’s PMQ, which frames the inspection as
relating to concerns of insurance coverage justification and overinsuredness of
Plaintiffs, not complete reconstruction of the home in the event of a total
loss. (See Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶ 10 [referenced in Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF No.
138]; see Evid. Code § 403 subd. (a)(4).) 
Accordingly,
the Court determines that Plaintiffs fail to carry their burden as to duty.
Summary
adjudication of the TAC’s first cause of action is GRANTED.
B. Lack of Breach and Lack of Causation
Having
granted summary adjudication on duty grounds, the Court need not reach
arguments based on lack of breach or lack of causation.
II.
TAC,
Third Cause of Action, Intentional or Negligent Misrepresentation: GRANTED.
Intentional
misrepresentation involves (1) a knowingly false representation by the
defendant, (2) made with an intent to deceive or induce reliance, (3)
justifiable reliance by the plaintiff, and (4) resulting damages. (Service
by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
Negligent
misrepresentation involves (1) an assertion, as a fact, of that which is not
true, (2) by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3)
made with intent to induce the recipient to alter his position to his injury or
his risk, (4) with justifiable reliance on the representation, and (5)
resulting damage. (B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th
823, 834.)
The
TAC’s third cause of action alleges misrepresentation against AmWins Access,
AmWins Ins., and Does 1-25 on various grounds, including that: (1) these
Defendants “represented to Plaintiffs that the Property was adequately and
properly insured in the event of loss and/or damage to the Property, that
Plaintiffs had adequate and proper coverage for loss of use of the Property in
the event of loss and/or damage to the Property based on the appraisal and/or
their own personal evaluation of the property, and that a proper and adequate
inspection/appraisal of the Property had been conducted by E&S INSPECTIONS
and/or others, and that the inspection/appraisal conducted by E&S
INSPECTIONS was accurate, adequate and proper”; and (2) “said Defendants presented
plaintiffs with a summary of coverage to sign at the inception of the policy
which did not include co-insurance provisions and also represented that there
was a loss extension on both the dwelling and the other structures.” These
representations are alleged to have been made by and through Cody Kaintz on
behalf of these Defendants, specifically in May, June, October, and November
2018. (TAC, ¶¶ 35-36.)
The
Katleman Plaintiffs clarify in their opposition that the allegations that “Defendants
presented plaintiffs with a summary of coverage to sign at the inception of the
policy which did not include co-insurance provisions and also represented that
there was a loss extension on both the dwelling and the other structures” are
allegations strictly relating to the DeWitt Defendants, for which reason such
representation “is not germane to the instant motion.” (Opp’n, p. 19, fn. 12.)
The Court therefore limits its discussion to the “adequate and proper”
allegations in the third cause of action because Plaintiffs’ concession permits
summary adjudication of the loss extension allegations.
AmWins
Access argues that summary adjudication should be granted against the TAC’s
third cause of action because: (1) AmWins Access “never represented that the
Lloyd’s policy provided ‘adequate and proper coverage’”; (2) AmWins Access
“never represented that the inspection and resulting valuation conducted by
E&S Inspections was ‘accurate, adequate, and proper’”; (3) AmWins Access
“never represented that the policy provided a ‘loss extension’ on the
structures that were insured”; and (4) “no one, not DeWitt nor AmWINS, ever
represented to Plaintiffs before the policy was issued (or even after the
policy was issued) that the Lloyd’s policy provided ‘adequate and proper
coverage’ in order to induce Plaintiffs to purchase the Lloyds policy.” (Mot.,
pp. 15-16 [referencing Mot., Amended Sep. St., UMF Nos. 14, 15, 17, 18, 19,
20].)
In
support of UMF No. 14—purporting to advance evidence showing that “AmWINS never
represented to Plaintiffs or to anyone that the quote it obtained was for
“appropriate and adequate” coverage for Plaintiffs”—AmWins Access refers to the
deposition of Cody Kaintz, i.e., the AmWins Access employee that the TAC
alleges made the false representations on behalf of AmWins Access, AmWins Ins.,
and Doe Defendants. (Mot., Amended Sep. St., UMF No. 14 [referencing Mot.,
Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 3, 133:23-134:17]; see TAC, ¶ 36.) A review of Mr.
Kaintz’s deposition at the cited passage shows that Mr. Kaintz testified to the
effect that “we [i.e., Mr. Kaintz and AmWins Access generally] never interacted
with [the Katleman Plaintiffs]” and instead communicated “only with DeWitt.”
(Mot., Amended Comp. Evid., Ex. 3, 133:23-134:6.)
The
Court finds that this evidence carries AmWins Access’s burden on summary
adjudication.
If
AmWins Access and its employees never communicated with the Katleman
Plaintiffs, then it is unclear how AmWins Access could have made
misrepresentations to the Katleman Plaintiffs. Moreover, the TAC specifically
alleges that Cody Kaintz made the misrepresentations at issue, but Mr. Kaintz’s
deposition specifically provides that he never communicated with the Katleman
Plaintiffs, thus contradicting the 36th paragraph in the TAC.
In
opposition, the Katleman Plaintiffs argue that AmWins Access did make several representations
to Plaintiffs that were untrue, i.e.: (1) “[a]t the time of binding, AmWINS
misrepresented to the Katlemans that they had replacement cost coverage for
their home, and that the cost to replace their home in the event of a total
loss was $632,141[] (PSS 7-8, 10, 11, 113, 114, 135)”; (2) AmWins Access
“maintained that their review was correct and once again misrepresented to the
Katlemans that they had replacement cost coverage for their home, and that the
cost to replace their home in the event of a total loss was $632,141” “(PSS
7-8, 10, 55-109, 81-82, 84, 87, 95, 103, 106, 107, 108, 109, 113,113, 121-128,
130-138)”; (3) AmWins Access represented “that the policy limits were ‘adequate[]’
(PSS 126)”; and (4) by failing to modify the dwelling portion/Coverage A
portion of the policy, “AmWINS was representing to the Katlemans that the
coverage for the dwelling was adequate[] (PSS 113).”
In
reply, AmWins Access argues that “Plaintiffs offer no evidence that AmWINS ever
represented to them that the policy was guaranteed to rebuild their home no
matter what, i.e., that the policy provided guaranteed replacement coverage or
that the cost to replace their home was guaranteed to be no more than the
$632,141 (plus the additional 50% extended coverage) that the policy provided.”
(Reply, p. 11 [emphasis removed].)
The
Court finds that the Katleman Plaintiffs’ position and their supporting
evidence do not carry their burden on summary adjudication.
The
Court briefly notes that Plaintiffs’ separate statement refers to Cody
Kaintz—the person the TAC alleges made the alleged misrepresentations to the
Katleman Plaintiffs—primarily for the purpose of citing to the Kaintz
deposition and, to a lesser degree, for the purpose of summarizing Cody
Kaintz’s conduct in relation to the insurance policy. However, the separate
statement makes no reference to representations made directly by Mr. Kaintz to
the Katleman Plaintiffs. (See Opp’n, Sep. St.) At most, the separate statement
makes references to indirect representations made by AmWins Access, which the
Court discusses and finds insufficient below. (See Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF Nos.
113, 114, 126, 135.) The opposition separate statement therefore does not support
paragraph 36 of the TAC.
However,
“courts are encouraged to take a liberal approach in determining the scope of
the pleadings, so long as those pleadings provide adequate notice to the
opposing party of the theories on which relief is generally being sought.” (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1211.) Here, the TAC does plead, in
relation to reliance, that all Defendants generally made representations of
adequate coverage relating to the Property. (TAC, ¶ 40.) Thus, even though “[s]ummary
judgment proceedings usually are limited to the issues framed by the pleadings”
(Jones v. Awad, supra, at p. 1211), the Court considers whether
the opposition sufficiently evidences, for summary adjudication purposes, that
AmWins Access directly made representations to the Katleman Plaintiffs
regarding the insurance coverage on the Property.
After
review, the Court determines that the Katleman Plaintiffs fail in their
opposition to reference any actual direct representations from AmWins Access to
the Katleman Plaintiffs. The Katleman Plaintiffs cite a number of AMFs in
support of misrepresentation. (See Opp’n, p. 19 [referencing Opp’n, Sep. St.,
AMF Nos. 7, 8, 10, 11, 113, 114, 126, 135].) Many of these AMFs do not relate
to any representations by AmWins Access to the Katleman Plaintiffs and instead
involve the process of issuing the insurance policy at issue to Plaintiffs.
(See Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF Nos. 7, 8, 10, 11.) The remaining AMFs cited by
Plaintiffs for the purpose of misrepresentation cite only to evidence
purporting to show that because AmWins determined that the replacement cost
provision in the Lloyd’s insurance policy was adequate in the amount of $632,141
and did not make any changes to this figure after its inspection of the
Property or upon request, AmWins Access misrepresented the amount of money that
would be necessary to completely replace the Property. (Opp’n, Sep. St., AMF
Nos. 113, 114, 126, 135.) However, the Court determines that such conduct by
AmWins Access does not involve a representation made by one party to another on
which the latter party relied, but rather, involves terms of a contract that
sounds in breach of contract more so than fraud.
To
the extent that the Katleman Plaintiff’s declaration provides that “AmWINS and
Dewitt Stern represented to [Plaintiffs] that the cost needed to rebuild a
structure similar to [Plaintiffs’] home in the event of a total loss was
$632,141” (Opp’n, Katleman Decl., ¶ 6; see also Evidentiary Objections
discussion supra, sustaining objection to this statement), the Court finds that
such evidence is insufficient for lack of foundation. The Katleman Declaration
simply fails to provide sufficient information for the Court to determine who
made such a representation or when and how that representation was made.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS summary adjudication of the TAC’s third cause of action.
III.
TAC,
Sixth Cause of Action, Breach of Contract: GRANTED.
“A
contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good consideration,
to do or not to do a specified thing.” (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal.
81, 83.) “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff
must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage
to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182,
1186.) Implicit in the element of damage is that the
defendant’s breach caused the plaintiff’s damage.” (Troyk v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1352, italics omitted.)
The
sixth cause of action alleges that the Katleman Plaintiffs entered a contract
with Defendants AmWins Access, AmWins Ins., and Does 1 through 25 pursuant to
which these “Defendants provided an insurance quote to Plaintiffs which procure
replacement cost coverage for the Property at 150% of value, as well as loss of
use coverage,” which Plaintiffs accepted, only for these Defendants to breach
the contract “by failing to obtain appropriate and adequate insurance for the
full value of the Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the Property,
and/or failing to obtain appropriate and adequate insurance for loss of use of
the Property in the event of loss and/or damage to the Property.” (TAC, ¶¶
66-68.)
The
Court adopts its discussion in Sections I and II to find that there is no
triable issue of material fact as to whether AmWins Access breached any alleged
contract between the parties.
Even
if such a contract exists, for summary adjudication purposes, AmWins Access was
instructed by Dewitt to secure replacement cost insurance coverage of
approximately $632,000 to match the Lexington policy, such that, there does not
appear to be a contractual term to provide to the Katleman Plaintiffs “appropriate
and adequate insurance for the full value of the Property in the event of loss
and/or damage to the Property.” (See Section I supra; see also Opp’n, p. 17 [“AmWINS
breached the agreement it had with the Katlemans because it did not provide the
coverage that was promised under the contract, i.e. the amount of coverage
needed to rebuild the home in the event of a total loss”].)
Moreover,
to the extent that there was an inspection of the Property, the Katleman
Plaintiffs’ own evidence provides that such inspection was for the purposes of
determining whether the replacement cost coverage provided by
Lloyds—$632,141—was justified and whether Plaintiffs were overinsured, not to
determine the amount of monies required to completely rebuild the home in the
event of a total loss. (See Section II supra; see also Opp’n, p. 17 [“AmWINS
breached the agreement it had with the Katlemans because it did not provide the
coverage that was promised under the contract, i.e. the amount of coverage
needed to rebuild the home in the event of a total loss”].)
Finally,
AmWINS provides testimony that there was no higher coverage that AmWINS was
able to offer at the time because Lloyds was not willing to issue a policy with
a higher coverage than what was available in the quote provided without a new
valuation by a third-party evaluator. (UF 10-12.) Although Plaintiffs dispute
this in their separate statement with cites to dozens of other “undisputed
facts,” the Court cannot locate any specific piece of evidence to refute this. It
appears that within a few weeks of Ms. Kaintz for AmWINS informing the broker
that “[t]he only way the carrier will consider increasing the dwelling value is
if another carrier generated inspection replacement cost estimator is provided,”
the Woolsey Fire burned Plaintiffs’ house down. (Compare Exhibit 25, 26.)
Insofar
as the Katleman Plaintiffs argue that “AmWINS was able to increase coverage
without the involvement of Lloyds,” this argument is unavailing for two
reasons. (See Opp’n, p. 18.) First, this argument relies on the purpose of the
inspection report on the Property, which is an unavailing argument as described
in the preceding paragraphs. Second, Plaintiffs fail to cite a contractual term
between themselves and AmWins Access requiring that coverage be increased—or
even that an internal inspection rather than only-outer-inspection be performed
on the Property.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS summary adjudication of the TAC’s sixth cause of action.
IV.
TAC,
Seventh Cause of Action, Breach of the Contractual Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing: GRANTED.
To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, the plaintiff must prove: (1) the existence of a contract
between plaintiff and defendant; (2) plaintiff performed his contractual
obligations or was excused from performing them; (3) the conditions requiring
defendant’s performance had occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered
with the plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the
plaintiff was harmed by the defendant’s conduct. (Merced Irr. Dist. v.
County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal. 2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280 [discussing
California law].) Allegations must demonstrate defendant’s conduct for failure
or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities was a conscious and
deliberate act, not an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence. (Ibid.) “‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of
the contract and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated by
the contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
182, 206 [quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1089, 1094].)
The
TAC’s seventh cause of action alleges, in relevant part, that the Katleman “Plaintiffs
suffered … harm because the Property was underinsured due to the intentional,
negligent, careless, and/or reckless acts of the Defendants[] …, as well as
said Defendants’ breach of contract,” constituting a breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing insofar as Defendants’ conduct “unfairly
interfere[d] with the right of [Plaintiffs] to receive the benefits of the
contract.” (TAC, ¶¶ 73, 77; see TAC, ¶¶ 72-81.)
The
Court adopts the discussion in Sections I to III to determine that there is no
triable issue of material fact as to whether the Katleman Plaintiffs were
entitled to guaranteed replacement cost coverage—monies allowing Plaintiffs to
completely rebuild the Property after it was destroyed in the Woolsey fire—for
which reason AmWins access could not have “unfairly interfered with the
plaintiff’s right to receive the benefit of the contract.” (Merced Irr.
Dist. v. County of Mariposa, supra, 941 F.Supp.2d at p. 1280.)
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS summary adjudication of the TAC’s seventh cause of action. 

Conclusion
Defendant AmWins Access Insurance Services, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.