  Case Number:  23TRCV00255    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
COLIN
  CAREW, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV00255




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in part/denied in part




 
JOSE
  ALFREDO MILLAN GUZMAN, an individual; EXTREME TRANSPORTATION, INC.; and DOES
  1-50 INCLUSIVE,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              January
22, 2025
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Colin Carew 
 
Responding Party:      Defendant Extreme Transportation Inc.
 
HEARING: MOTION TO COMPEL THE
DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court grants the
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendants PMQ and Denies the Motion to
Compel the Request for the Production of Documents.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
January 30, 2023, Plaintiff Colin Carew filed the Complaint against Defendants
Jose Alfredo Millan Guzman and Extreme Transportation Inc., alleging a single
cause of action for negligent operation of a motor vehicle arising from a
vehicle collision.
 
            On August 28, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent its first notice of Deposition to Defendants’
PMQ.
 
            On September 10, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a deposition subpoena for Vince Ichihara.
 
On September 16, 2024, and September 23, 2024,
Parties met and conferred about a
deposition date.
 
            On September 23, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent an amended notice to depose Defendant’s PMQ.
 
            On October 3, 2024,
Defense counsel named Vince Echevarria as their responsive PMQ.
 
            On October 18, 2024,
Defendants’ PMQ, Mr. Ichihara, was deposed.
            
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            If, after service of
a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).) 
 
“The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)  “Although the
statute appears to apply only if the deponent fails to both appear¿and¿produce
documents, it has been held to apply simply on a deponent's failure to appear.”
(Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App. 4th
1109, 1124.)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff
requests the Court order Defendant to produce a PMQ and produce the documents
outlined in the deposition notice.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel
must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.)
 
Here, the parties have met and conferred
regarding that deposition numerous times before the filing of this motion.
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.
 
Separate Statement
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is
procedurally defective because it fails to include a separate statement as
required by California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a) for motions involving the
content of discovery requests or responses. This requirement does not apply
only when no response has been provided, but Plaintiff’s motion clearly
involves disputes over the sufficiency of Defendant’s responses and objections,
not the absence of responses. Plaintiff acknowledged these responses and
detailed meet and confer efforts in their motion and supporting declaration,
further confirming the necessity of a separate statement.
 
Defendant asserts that attaching the responses
to the motion is insufficient, as Rule 3.1345(c) expressly prohibits this
practice. The court has the discretion to deny the motion solely on this
procedural ground. (Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.)
 
Additionally, Defendant contends that
Plaintiff has failed to show good cause for the requested production of
documents. Although Plaintiff quotes the statutory language, the motion does
not substantively address or demonstrate good cause. Preparing a proper
separate statement might have allowed Plaintiff to argue good cause, but the
omission undermines their argument. For these reasons, Defendant asserts that
the court should deny Plaintiff’s motion.
 
As to the requests for the production of
documents, since Defendant has objected to the requests, Plaintiff cannot
compel their production under Code Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision
(a). Thus, good cause must be shown under Code Civil Procedure section 2025.450,
subdivision (b)(1). Without a separate statement laying out Defendant's
response to each request, the Court cannot determine whether Defendant's
objections are valid. 
 
Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to
Compel the Production of Documents.
 
Deposition
 
At the deposition of Mr.
Ichihara, Defendant stated that Mr. Ichihara was not Defendant’s PMQ and instructed Mr.
Ichihara not to answer questions regarding the matters for examination and
stated that all Mr. Ichihara has to do is state that the company does not
have a PMQ for the particular matter for examination. 
 
Defendant argues that they have no one
responsive to the matters of examination outlined in the deposition notice.
When served with a deposition notice for a PMQ, a Defendant’s duty is limited
to “to producing the most knowledgeable person currently in its employ and
making sure that that person has access to information and documents reasonably
available within the corporation.” (Maldonado v. Superior Ct. (2002) 94
Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398.) Here, Defendant instructed Mr. Ichihara not to search
for records or prepare for the deposition. Whether Mr. Ichihara was Designated
as Defendant’s PMQ is immaterial. Defendant has a duty to prepare a PMQ with
documents regarding the categories for examination and has failed to do so.
 
Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to
Compel Deposition of Defendant’s PMQ.
 
 
Sanctions
 
Failing
to respond to an authorized method of discovery is a sanctionable misuse of the
discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (a), 2023.010 subd. (d).)
If a motion to compel a party to respond to discovery is successful, the court
must impose a monetary sanction against that party unless the sanction
would be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc § 2030.290 subd. (c), 2023.030 subd. (a), 2023.010
subd. (d); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The monetary sanction
includes the moving party’s reasonable expenses, such as attorney’s fees and
costs. (Code Civ. Proc § 2023.030 subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff requests
monetary sanction be imposed on Defendant. Defendant has requested monetary
sanctions be placed on Plaintiff. The Court denies the request to sanction
Plaintiff as their motion was granted. However, the Court denies imposing
sanctions on Defendant because Defendant showed good cause for opposing the
motion as the Court denied the request to compel the production of documents.