  Case Number:  21STCV12565    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  14 Park ConstructionCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that it did
construction work for which it was not paid. Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs
failed to do the work that was agreed upon.
 
Complaint
 
            On March 1,
2022, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien; (3) Goods and Services Rendered;
(4) Quantum Meruit; (5) Fraud; and (6) Negligent Misrepresentation against
Defendants Sang & Sang, LLC (“Sang”) and DOES 1-20. 
 
            On June 23,
2022, the court sustained Defendant Sang’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action, without leave to amend.
 
            On July 5,
2022, Defendant Sang filed its Answer.
 
Cross-Complaint
 
            On April 15,
2022, Defendant Sang filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint for Breach of
Contract against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants Brian Park, Charlie Park
(collectively “Parks”), and ROES 1-20. 
 
On May 17, 2022, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Parks filed their joint Answer.
 
On May 23, 2023, Cross-Complainant
Sang voluntarily dismissed Cross-Defendant Charlie Park, without prejudice.
 
On May 30, 2023, Cross-Defendant
Charlie Park filed his Memorandum of Costs.
 
On March 7, 2024, Cross-Complainant
Sang voluntarily dismissed Cross-Defendant Brian Park, without prejudice.
 
Trial Date
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for April 29, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
now moves this court for an order permitting them to file a Cross-Complaint
against a new party.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. The cross-complaint is to
be filed by 4 pm on April 24, 2024.
 
            Trial on the cross-complaint will be
severed from trial on the complaint, with trial on the complaint to occur
first, as scheduled. Trial on the cross-complaint will be scheduled at the
close of trial on the complaint.
 
            Discovery deadlines on the current
pleadings will not be altered. Discovery deadlines on the new cross-complaint
will be pegged to the date later chosen for trial of those claims.
 
Governing Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 428.50 provides that:
 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
 
A cross-complaint against a person
not previously a party is “permissive” as opposed to compulsory. “Permission to
file a permissive cross-complaint is solely within the trial court's discretion.”
Crocker National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.app.3d 852, 864.
 
Discussion
 
            This motion
presents the somewhat unusual prospect of a Plaintiff with a live complaint
seeking to also file a cross-complaint. The call-and-response of this case
makes the request make a little more sense. Plaintiff sued Defendants to
collect payment due for work performed. Defendants cross-complained against
Plaintiff for failure to perform the work agreed upon in their contract.
Plaintiff now seeks to recover, on an indemnity theory, from the subcontractor
who was assigned to the task in question.
 
            As a matter
of policy, the law prefers the filing of cross-complaints in construction cases
over the filing of new actions. Valley Circle Estates v. VTN Consolidated
(1983) 33 Cal.3d 604, 613-614. No one involved would gain by forcing Plaintiff
to file a new, separate action against their subcontractor, an action which
would doubtless be related to this one and trail behind it. See Id. at
615. Defendant Sang takes the position that, even if they have nothing to gain
from a new action, they certainly have something to lose from a new
cross-complaint.
 
            Defendant
Sang’s point has some merit. This case has been pending for over three years.
The trial date is 12 days away. Resolution of the dispute between Plaintiff and
Defendant Sang is imminent; adding a new pleading and a new party at this point
would snatch that prospect away catapult it into the next year.
 
            However,
the court has the power to mitigate that prejudice by exercising its discretion
to sever the pleadings under Code of Civil Procedure § 1048(b). Defendant
Sang can still have the trial towards which it has been working all this time,
Plaintiff can preserve its indemnity claims, and the court avoids the
administrative difficulty of multiplying actions.
 
Conclusion
 
            For clear
policy reasons which apply in this case, the law favors the filing of
cross-complaints in construction cases. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. The cross-complaint is to be filed by 4 pm
on April 24, 2024. 
 
However, the claims currently at
issue between the parties, which are finally nearing trial, can be clearly
separated from the claims against prospective third parties. Therefore, the new
cross-complaint will be severed from the current pleadings. The current
pleadings will be tried first, as currently scheduled. Trial on the new cross-complaint will be scheduled thereafter.
 
            Discovery deadlines on the current
pleadings will not be altered. Discovery deadlines on the new cross-complaint
will be pegged to the date later chosen for trial of those claims.