 Case Number:  23STCV22779    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  14 Mitchell v. CovenantCase Background
 
Plaintiff is a blind individual. To
navigate the Internet, he uses a screen-reading software that verbally recounts
what a web site says and lets him know what keyboard commands to use in
navigating the site. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s website design is not
compatible with his screen-reading software, leaving him unable to use the
site.
 
            On February
2, 2024, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint for Violation of the Unruh
Act against Defendants Covenant Living Communities and Services (“Defendant”).
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Defendant
now demurs to the complaint, on the ground that (1) Plaintiff has no standing
because he has not pled eligibility to use Defendant’s services, (2)
Plaintiff’s claim is moot because screen readers have always worked on
Defendant’s web site, and (3) Plaintiff has failed to identify anything that he
could not access.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. The exhibits thereto are not proper
subjects for judicial notice, and they constitute extrinsic evidence which the
court cannot consider on demurrer.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibit 1.
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Governing Standard
 
            Civil Code
§ 51 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
            “(a) This
section shall be known, and may be cited, as the Unruh Civil Rights Act.

(b) All persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and
no matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual
orientation, citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are entitled
to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or
services in all business establishments of every kind whatsoever.
…
(f) A violation of the right of any individual under the federal Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-336) shall also constitute a violation
of this section.”
 
Civil Code § 52 provides in
relevant part that:

“(a) Whoever denies, aids or incites a denial, or makes any discrimination or
distinction contrary to Section 51, 51.5, or 51.6, is liable for each and every
offense for the actual damages, and any amount that may be determined by a
jury, or a court sitting without a jury, up to a maximum of three times the
amount of actual damage but in no case less than four thousand dollars
($4,000), and any attorney's fees that may be determined by the court in
addition thereto, suffered by any person denied the rights provided in Section
51, 51.5, or 51.6.”
 
There are two ways to state a claim
for the violation of Civil Code § 51: (1) allege intentional
discrimination based on the plaintiff’s inclusion in a protected category, or
(2) allege a violation of the ADA. Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46
Cal.4th 661, 668-672. Plaintiff has attempted both in this case.
 
Discussion
 
            To have
standing to sue under the Unruh Act, a plaintiff must have visited the
establishment with a “bona fide” intent to buy their goods or use their
services. White v. Square, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1019, 1032.
Defendant argues that, because it is a senior living facility with a minimum
age, Plaintiff may not be eligible to use their services and therefore may not
have standing to sue. 
 
However, Plaintiff has pled that he
is the caretaker for his mother, who is eligible, and that he was investigating
on her behalf. (FAC ¶ 9). That is sufficient to confer standing. There is
no rule that Plaintiff must intend to procure goods or services for himself.
The injury is the denial of access; all that is required for standing is a bona
fide reason for seeking access.
 
Defense next argues that the case
is moot because the issue was fixed before Plaintiff files his complaint. But
while that might insulate Defendant from injunctive relief, mootness is not a
defense to damages claims. Section 52(a) permits Plaintiff to recover at least
$4,000 per violation. The court has no discretion to deny that award because
there have been no subsequent violations.
 
Finally, Defense argues that
Plaintiff has not pled a violation of the Unruh Act, as he cannot allege either
causation to establish a violation of the ADA, or intentional discrimination
outside the ADA. However, the causation argument is simply a repetition of the
standing argument, and fails for the same reasons. Since Plaintiff has pled a
violation of the ADA, the court need not address the presence or absence of
intentional discrimination at this time.
 
Conclusion
 

            Plaintiff
has properly pled standing and causation, and his claim for damages is not
moot. Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED.