  Case Number:  23STCV07493    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   May
31, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Stevens v. Adventist Health White
Memorial 
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07493

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendants Dr. Kim Warner; Dr. Christine Sayegh
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None (Plaintiff
Anthony Stevens) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: Defendants Warner and Sayegh’s Motions
for Summary Judgement are GRANTED. 
 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
On April 5, 2023, Plaintiff Anthony Stevens, a
minor, by and through his Guardian as Litem Brittany Ford, filed a medical
negligence action against Defendants Adventist Health White Memorial (“White
Memorial”), Erine Guzman, MD (“Guzman”), Kim Warner, MD (“Warner”), and
Christine Evette Sayegh, D.O. (“Sayegh”) (collectively “Defendants”.) 
 
Defendant Guzman filed her Answer to the Complaint
on May 15, 2023. Warner and White Memorial separately filed their Answer on May
24, 2023.
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendants Warner and Sayegh filed
the instant motions for summary judgment. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A party seeking
summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to
entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).)
The moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to
judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an opposition.
(Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.) Thus, “the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) When a defendant
seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence that either one
or more elements of a cause of action cannot be established or that there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) The
moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions,
or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of
the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d
629, 639; Scalf, 128 Cal.App.4th at
1519; Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 
The
opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden
to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial
movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life
Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the initial
movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to show,
with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the weighing
procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).) The opposing party may not
simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must present
evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere
speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) Summary judgment must be granted “if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Defendants
Warner and Sayegh move for summary judgment on the grounds that Minor Plaintiff’s
claim for medical negligence fails to raise a triable issue of fact that the
care and treatment rendered to Brittany Ford failed to meet the applicable
standard of care. The Court notes that since both Moving defendants provide
essentially the same argument and evidence in support of the motion, the Court
reviews the motions together. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)
 
Defendants
provide a separate statement which states that on or about April 5, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against multiple healthcare providers, alleging negligent
medical care and treatment of Brittany Ford during labor, delivery, and
post-natal care by failing to administer antibiotics before and after the
plaintiff's birth. (Declaration of Heidi L. Kjar, Esq.; Exh. A.) Ford was
presented to White Memorial Medical Center on October 18, 2022, at 1:55 a.m. (Declaration
of Dr. Nageotte ¶ 4(a); Kjar Decl. Exh. B.) It was noted that Ford was a cystic
fibrosis carrier and declined CVS and amniocentesis. (Nageotte ¶ 4(c); Kjar
Decl. Exh. B.) Ford additionally had anemia of pregnancy and two prior vaginal
deliveries in 2009 and 2021. Id. Defendants
provide evidence of the various steps taken during Ford’s Labor and delivery, including
the lab test and studies issued for Ms. Ford. (Nageotte Decl. ¶¶ 4(d)-(g); Kjar
Decl. Exh B.) at 2:18 am Plaintiff was born, with a delivery team that included
Dr. Warrner as the attending physician. Per Dr. Nageotte’s declaration, the
medical care and treatment provided to Ms. Ford by Dr. Warner and the residents
she was supervising on October 18, 2022, at White Memorial Medical Center was
appropriate and complied with the standard of care specifying that Ms. Ford was
timely and appropriately evaluated and that the delivery was performed in a
manner consistent with the standard of care. Dr. Nageotte explains that when a
mother is Group B Strep positive and time allows, the first dose of antibiotics
should be given over the course of an hour or so. (Nageotte Decl. ¶ 6.) To
reduce the risk of infection in a newborn, there should be at least a 2-hour
gap between the initial antibiotic administration and delivery. (Id.) In the case of Ms. Ford, she arrived
at WHITE MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER fully dilated and 100% effaced. Id. She delivered shortly after her
vaginal exam, without enough time for the antibiotics to be given in a
therapeutic manner. (Id.) As a result,
the standard of care did not require Dr. Warner or the residents under her
supervision to administer antibiotics to Ms. Ford, after Plaintiff’s birth. (Id. ¶ 7.) Dr. Nageotte additionally
states that the decision to administer antibiotics to Plaintiff was not within
Dr. Warner’s scope of responsibilities or any member of the obstetrical
delivery team; rather, it was the decision of the assigned pediatrician. (Id. ¶ 8.) Moreover, based on Dr.
Nageotte’s expert opinion, Dr. Sayegh’s involvement in the care and treatment
of Ms. Ford on October 19, 2022, complied with the standard of care because she
was a resident physician in training with limited involvement sole to
post-partum assessment and determination regarding discharge of Ms. Ford which complied
with all post-partum milestones related to pain diet and ablation. (Id. ¶¶ 9-11.) 
 
The Court
finds that Defendants have met their evidentiary burdens because they provide
expert medical simony that shows their conduct in treating both Plaintiff and
Ms. Ford complied with the applicable standard of care. Plaintiff does not
provide any opposition or any evidence showing that there remains a factual
dispute. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendants Warner and Sayegh Motions for
Summary Judgment. 
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court
decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
Defendants Warner and Sayegh’s Motions for Summary Judgement are
GRANTED.
 
 
Moving parties to give
notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 31, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 