  Case Number:  22STCV13458    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Damian
  Carmona,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
City
  of Los Angeles, et al.
 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
22STCV13458
                         107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:       
Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Compliance with
Demand
  for Physical Examination 
 



 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
On March
15, 2021, Plaintiff Damian Carmona (“Plaintiff”) was riding his bicycle when he
was struck by Defendant Rudolph Allen Hernandez’s vehicle. (Complaint pp. 5-6.)
On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Rudolph Allen
Hernandez, Does 1 to 50, the City of Los Angeles, the County of Los Angeles,
and the California Highway Patrol, alleging two causes of action. (Complaint
pp. 5, 7.)
On May 10,
2024, the City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) served Plaintiff with a Demand for
Physical Examination. (Woodward Declaration ¶ 3;
Ex. A)  Plaintiff did not object.
(Woodward Declaration ¶ 3.) The exam was scheduled for June 19, 2024. (Woodward
Declaration ¶ 5.) Plaintiff did not appear for the examination. (Woodward
Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant’s counsel spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel, who said
Plaintiff went to the parking area but did not go inside the doctor’s office
due to a miscommunication. (Woodward Declaration ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel paid
the no-show fee for the missed appointment. (Woodward Declaration ¶ 7.)
On
July 5, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with a second Demand for Physical
Examination. (Woodward Declaration ¶ 8; Ex. B) Plaintiff did not object.
(Woodward Declaration ¶ 8.) The second examination was scheduled for August 7,
2024. (Woodward Declaration ¶ 8.) Plaintiff did not appear for the second examination.
(Woodward Declaration ¶ 11.) On August 15, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel about Plaintiff’s failure to appear, but Defendant’s
counsel received no response. (Woodward Declaration ¶¶ 11-12; Ex. E) 
On
September 3, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Compliance
with Demand for Physical Examination. Plaintiff filed no opposition.
 
II.            
DISCUSSION
 
a.     Motion
to Compel Response and Compliance 
“In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if . . . (1)
The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is
painful, protracted, or intrusive. [and] (2) The examination is conducted at a
location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220(a).) “If a plaintiff to whom
a demand for physical examination under this article is directed fails to serve
a timely response to it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the demand. The
court, on motion, may relieve that plaintiff from this waiver on its
determination that . . . (1) The plaintiff has subsequently served a response
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2032.230. [and] (2) The
plaintiff’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240(a).) “The
defendant may move for an order compelling response and compliance with a
demand for a physical examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.240(b).) 
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration states that Plaintiff is
alleging he sustained “injuries to his knees, leg numbness, neck, back, head,
and depression [and] Plaintiff alleges that the pain in his knee, legs, neck
and back [are] becoming worse.” (Woodward Declaration ¶ 2.) Defendant’s
counsel also states that “[a]s of January 2024, [Plaintiff] was asserting
medical specials in excess of $350,000.” (Woodward Declaration ¶ 2.)
Accordingly, because Plaintiff is seeking recovery for medical injuries,
Defendant is entitled to one physical examination.
Defendant
served Plaintiff with Demands for Physical Examination on May 10, 2024, and
July 5, 2024. (Woodward Declaration ¶¶ 3, 8.) Plaintiff did not object to
either demand. (Woodward Declaration ¶¶ 3, 8.) Plaintiff then failed to appear
for both examinations. (Woodward Declaration ¶¶ 5, 11.) Because Plaintiff did
not serve a response to Defendant’s Demands for Physical Examination, Plaintiff
has waived any objections to the demands and Defendant is entitled to an order
compelling response and compliance with the demand for physical examination. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.240(a)-(b).)  
 
b.     Sanctions
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a
physical examination, unless it finds that one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240(c).) 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel’s office paid the no-show fee for
the missed appointments and Defendant is not seeking sanctions. Accordingly, this
court will not order sanctions.
 
III.          
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion for an order compelling Plaintiff’s compliance with its demand for
physical examination is GRANTED.
 
 
 
Dated:  October 4, 2024                                                                     _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court