  Case Number:  23STCV21363    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 18, 2024                            TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Gabriela Cortez v. Burberry Limited, et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21363            
 
MOTION
FOR STAY PENDING APPEAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Burberry Limited and Ana Fragoso
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Gabriela
Cortez
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on September
6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was harassed for taking maternity leave and
terminated for complaining about her mistreatment. 
 
Defendants move for a stay pending
appeal of the Court’s denial of their motion to compel arbitration.  
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Stay Pending Appeal is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for a stay pending
appeal of the Court’s denial of their motion to compel arbitration.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
916(a) provides that, “[e]xcept as provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9,
inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ.
Proc § 916(a).) However, Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a),
as amended this year, states that, “[n]otwithstanding Section 916, the
perfecting of such an appeal shall not automatically stay any proceedings in
the trial court during the pendency of the appeal.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1294(a).)
 
            On May 24,
2024, the Court issued its ruling on Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration.
The Court found that the Parties had entered into an agreement to arbitrate,
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, which applied to the claims asserted
in this action. (May 24, 2024 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission pp. 4.)
However, the Court declined to enforce the agreement on the grounds that the
agreement “is permeated with substantive unconscionability and is
unconscionable on the whole.” (May 24, 2024 Ruling on Matter Taken Under
Submission p. 12.) Defendants appealed that ruling on July 11, 2024. (Notice of
Appeal.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that the matter should be stayed, notwithstanding Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, because, under recent federal authority, the Federal Arbitration
Act mandates a stay of proceedings upon appeal from an order denying
arbitration. (Coinbase Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736, 740-44
[holding that, although no express provision of the FAA mandates a stay pending
appeal from an order denying arbitration, such a requirement is implicit, and its
absence would defeat the purpose of the Act].) Although Defendants argue that
the Court’s prior ruling that the Federal Arbitration Act applies resolves the
matter, closer examination of the applicable precedent reveals greater
complexity. 
 
Generally, only the substantive
requirements—and not the procedural requirements—of the Federal Arbitration Act
apply to proceedings in California courts. (Cronus Invs., Inc. v. Concierge
Servs. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 389.) However, parties to an arbitration
agreement may expressly adopt the Federal Arbitration Act’s procedural
provisions. (Id. at 394.) In Cronus, the invocation of the
Federal Arbitration Act in the agreement at issue stated “The designation of a
situs or specifically a governing law for this agreement or the arbitration
shall not be deemed an election to preclude application of the [FAA], if it
would be applicable.” (Cronus, supra, 35 Cal.4th at 381.) Interpreting
this language, our Supreme Court concluded that the parties to the arbitration
agreement had not adopted the FAA’s procedural requirements, because that
agreement’s invocation of the Act was limited to “applicable” portions of the
FAA which conflicted with California law and was otherwise expressly subordinate
to a choice-of-law provision adopting California law. (Id. at 393-394.)
The high Court found that there was no conflict between the Federal Arbitration
Act and the statute at issue—Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c)—which
would trigger the invocation of the FAA. (Id.) Defendants instead analogize
this case to Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1110, in which the Court of Appeal determined that an agreement
which only stated that arbitration would be conducted “pursuant to the FAA,”
and contained no contrary choice of law provision, constituted an express
adoption of the FAA’s procedural requirements. (Rodriguez v. American
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-22.) 
 
            Here, the
applicable provision stated that “[t]he interpretation and enforcement of this
Agreement shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, or, to the extent
the Federal Arbitration Act is not applicable, then under applicable state
law.” (Declaration of Nicola Internullo ISO Mot. Compel Arb. Exh. A.) Although
this language, like the language in Cronus, contemplates the potential
inapplicability of the Federal Arbitration Act, there is no separate choice of
law provision adopting California law to which this language would be
subordinated. Instead, this language bears greater similarity to the statement
that arbitration would be conducted “pursuant to the FAA” at issue in Rodriguez.
(Rodriguez, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 1121-22.) Indeed, this language,
arguably, is more explicit, as it expressly invokes the Federal Arbitration Act
as to both the interpretation and enforcement of the Agreement. (Internullo
Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff attempts to distinguish Rodriguez by arguing
that it, like Cronus, concerned section 1281.2(c), and not this statute.
(Rodriguez, supra, 136 Cal. App. 4th at 1121-22.) While true, that
argument is not material, as Rodriguez is not offered for the California
statute at issue but for guidance on how to interpret of the invocation of the
FAA in this Agreement. With respect to the Agreement itself, Plaintiff asserts
that the Court’s decision not to enforce the agreement somehow invalidates the
Court’s separate finding that the Federal Arbitration Act applies to the
Agreement. Plaintiff cites no authority for that position. 
 
            Based on
this record, the Court concludes that the Agreement at issue contains an
express adoption of the Federal Arbitration Act, such that both the substantive
and the procedural provisions of the Act apply to this Agreement. Therefore,
notwithstanding Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a) and pursuant to the
Supreme Court’s holding in Coinbase Inc. v. Bielski, Defendants are
entitled to a stay of this action pending resolution of their appeal from the
Court’s order denying arbitration. 
            
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Stay Pending Appeal is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 18,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 