  Case Number:  23STCP02769    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  82 Walter Solis,                                                              Case
No. 23STCP02769
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: July 19, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Los
Angeles County                                                  Department:
82
Civil
Service Commission                                        Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Petition for
Writ of Mandate
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
Petitioner Walter Solis (“Petitioner”)
was a deputy sheriff for the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (the “Sheriff’s
Department” or the “Department”) who was terminated and appealed the decision
to the Civil Service Commission (the “Commission” or “Respondent”).  Petitioner faced three sets of disciplinary
charges.  First, the Department alleged
that Petitioner did not obtain approval of outside employment, which he
admitted during the IAB interview. The hearing officer sustained the allegation
and recommended a three-day suspension, which is the maximum penalty.  Petitioner did not challenge this finding or
the recommended penalty before the Commission, and he does not seek a writ on
this basis.  (See Petition, Prayer for
Relief, ¶ 2.)  
 
Second, the Department charged
Petitioner with prohibited employment for engaging in debt collection work, as
well as with dishonesty during the IAB investigation.  The hearing officer found that Petitioner
only agreed to work as a debt collector, but never actually did so, which is
not a violation of the policy.  The
hearing officer also found that Petitioner did not intentionally make false,
misleading, or incomplete statements during the IAB investigation.  The Commission did not disturb these findings
or conclusions.  (See AR 198-199.)   
 
Finally, the Department charged
Petitioner with associating with Carroll, purportedly “a known drug dealer,”
and suggested that Petitioner was involved in Carroll’s marijuana activities.  (AR 145-147) 
The Department called only three witnesses, none of whom was a
percipient witness: (1) Lieutenant Michael Shaw, who investigated Petitioner
for criminal activity and found “insufficient probable cause to believe a crime
occurred” (AR 136); (2) Sergeant Irys Alvarez, who conducted the IAB
investigation; and (3) Assistant Sheriff Myron Johnson.  The Department relied heavily upon hearsay,
as well as the text messages between Petitioner and Carroll.  The hearing officer found that there was
insufficient evidence to support these charges, which the Commission rejected.  In a sparse, two-page opinion, the Commission
found “sufficient evidence” that “[t]here was a willingness on the part of
[Petitioner] . . . to participate in the violation of a federal statute
involving growing, possessing or using marijuana.  (AR 199.) 
However, the Commission did not discuss the evidence or the Department’s
heavy reliance on hearsay in making this conclusory finding.  Nor did the Commission discuss how the
undisputed evidence—the text messages—supported the finding that Petitioner
violated any policy. Accordingly, the Commission’s finding does not comply with
Topanga Association for a Scenic Community
v. County of Los Angeles, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 515 (hereinafter “Topanga”).  The court grants the petition on this basis
and remands the matter for further proceedings.
BACKGROUND 
 
            On
July 16, 2017, the Los Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD”) arrested 14
persons on charges of marijuana trafficking. 
One such person, Kraig Carroll, surrendered his cell phone and
authorized the LAPD to conduct a search. 
(AR 134.)  The LAPD extracted text
messages between Carroll and a contact called “Sheriff Walter Weho.”  (AR 134-135.) 
The LAPD determined that the cell phone number associated with “Sheriff
Walter Weho” belonged to Petitioner Walter Solis.  (AR 135.) 
Accordingly, the LAPD referred the matter to the Sheriff’s Department
for further investigation.  (AR 193.)  Carroll pleaded guilty to several
misdemeanors stemming from his arrest and claimed that, as a result, he ceased
any attempts to establish a cannabis business. 
(AR 143.)      
 
            During
the investigation Lieutenant Michael Shaw (then a sergeant) interviewed
Carroll, who denied that Petitioner was involved in marijuana activities.  (AR 135-136.) 
Shaw extracted 144,312 SMS text messages and 9,330 MMS text messages
from Carroll’s phone, and cited only 23 text messages, none of which “could be
substantiated by substantive evidence.” 
(AR 136.)  Therefore, Lieutenant
Shaw concluded that “there is insufficient probable cause to believe a crime
occurred,” i.e., that Petitioner was involved in marijuana
trafficking.  (Ibid.)  The matter was then referred to IAB, and
Sergeant Irys Alvarez interviewed Kraig Carroll and Petitioner.  
 
            1.         Violation of Section 3-01/060.30
(Department Approval of Outside Employment)
 
            The
Department charged Petitioner with a violation of section 3-01/060.30, which requires
full-time, permanent employees to report outside employment to their unit
commander and to obtain approval.  During
the IAB investigation, Petitioner admitted to working two off-duty security
jobs for Carroll, who owned two security companies, for which he did not obtain
prior approval.  (AR 140.)  There is no evidence in the record that these
jobs involved marijuana cultivation or trafficking.  (See AR 134-143.)  Based upon Petitioner’s admission to Sergeant
Alvarez, the hearing officer found that Petitioner violated this policy and recommended
the maximum penalty, which was a three-day suspension.  Petitioner does not challenge the finding or
penalty in this proceeding.
 
            2.         Violation of Section 3-01/060.25
(Prohibited Employment)
 
            The
Department charged Petitioner with a violation of section 3-01/060.25, which prohibits
peace officers from engaging in debt collection.  During the investigation, the Department
discovered text messages between Carroll and Petitioner discussing collection
efforts.  (AR 141-142.)  During the IAB investigation, Petitioner
admitted that he and Carroll “discussed collecting large amounts of money for
undisclosed clients.”  (AR 141.)  Petitioner admitted that on one occasion, “he
agreed to assist Carroll in recovering the money noting that if they were
successful, he and Carroll would each get paid $50,000.”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner admitted that on another occasion,
Carroll offered to split a commission of $5,000 to collect a debt of $20,000
owed to another client.  (AR
141-142.)  Petitioner admitted that “he
was willing to participate in the collection of money on both occasions because
he did not see anything wrong with it but, in any event, he denied completing
both jobs.”  (AR 142)  There is no evidence in the record that
Petitioner actually engaged in debt collection activities; only that he agreed
to do so.  (See AR 134-143.)     
 
            The
hearing officer found that section 301/060.25 prohibits “the actual act of
performing debt collection as opposed to a conversation oriented around engaged
in debt collection.”  (AR 149.)  Because Petitioner never actually attempted
to collect any debts, the hearing officer found that he was not in violation of
the policy.  (AR 149.)  The Commission did not disturb this conclusion.  (See AR 199.)
 
            3.         Violation of 3-01/040.75 (Dishonesty
during Internal Investigations)
 
            The
Department charged Petitioner with one instance of making a false, misleading,
and/or incomplete statement during the IAB investigation.  Petitioner described himself as a “middle
man,” introducing Ilan Dahan, a property manager, to Carroll and his
associates.  (AR 138, 149.)  Petitioner stated that he “did not
participate in discussions about  a
Malibu property.”  (Ibid.)  Subsequently, Carroll emailed Dahan and
inquired about using the property for marijuana cultivation.  (AR 138.)  During the IAB investigation, the Department
showed Petitioner text messages between him and Carroll, following which he
“admitted to relaying information back and forth between Carroll and
Dahan.”  (AR 149.)  Accordingly, the Department took the position
that Petitioner’s original characterization of himself as a “middle man” was
not accurate.  
 
            The
hearing officer found that Petitioner did not deliberately provide false
information.  (AR 150.)  The hearing officer found that “he was given
no documents to review in advance of being interviewed and, therefore, as a
result, had to rely solely on his memory of events that occurred the previous
two years before being interviewed.”  (Ibid.)  The hearing officer concluded that this
charge is not true.  (Ibid.)  The Commission did not disturb this
conclusion.  (See AR 199.)       
 
            4.         Section 3-01/030.05 (General Behavior) and
Section 3-01/050.86 
(Prohibited Associations)
 
            The
Department charged Petitioner with violation of section 3-01/050.86, which states
that deputies shall not act or behave in such a manner as to bring discredit
upon themselves or the Sheriff’s Department. 
The Department also charged Petitioner with violation of section
3-01/050.86, which prohibits deputies from knowingly maintain a business or
personal relationship or to have direct or indirect association which would be
detrimental to the image of the Sheriff’s Department.  These charges stem from Petitioner’s
association with Carroll and his alleged involvement in marijuana trafficking
activities.  
 
            The
Department called three witnesses: (1) Lieutenant Michael Shaw, who conducted
the criminal investigation of Petitioner; (2) Sergeant Irys Alvarez, who
conducted the IAB investigation of Petitioner; and (3) Assistant Sheriff Myron
Johnson.  The Department introduced the
text messages between Petitioner and Carroll. 
The Department also introduced summaries of the criminal investigation
and IAB investigation (which are hearsay). 

 
            The
hearing officer found that there was insufficient evidence to support these
charges.  The hearing officer found as
follows:
 
Carroll was not known to be a drug dealer until his arrest
for drug trafficking occurred on July 13, 2017. 
Even at that time, [Petitioner], who had already severed ties wth
Carroll, attested he had no knowledge of his arrest as Carroll corroborated in
his IAB interview . . . .  Additionally,
the Department did not produce any evidence to contradict Carroll’s assertion
at his IAB interview that he was not subsequently convicted of drug trafficking
but rather pled and was found guilty to having committed several
misdemeanors.  It appears that the
Department’s characterization of Carroll being a known drug dealer for purposes
of its case against [Petitioner] is to substantiate, validate, and bolster the
other allegations it has charged [Petitioner] with having violated. . . .  Certainly, had Carroll had a criminal record
prior to his arrest for trafficking in marijuana on July 13, 2017, a reference
to such a record would have been a significant fact to be noted by the ICIB and
IAB investigators in proving that [Petitioner] violated this section of the
Department’s Policy and Procedures. . . . 
At the time [Petitioner] met Carroll at an event in and around May 26,
2016, there was no indication [Petitioner] could have known that Carroll was
involved in any illicit or illegal business or activity since Carroll conveyed
to [Petitioner] that he was interested in him as a person who could be
available to provide security services to the clients of his two legitimate
businesses.  
 
(AR 145-146.)  The hearing officer also found: “[T]here is
nothing in the record evidence presented by the Department to show the
[Petitioner’s] involvement in assisting Carroll to find a property for one of
Carroll’s clients to grow marijuana is in violation of a Department policy for
not complying with Federal Law.”  (AR
147.)  
 
            The
hearing officer reviewed the text messages between Petitioner and Carroll.  (See AR 147.) 
Two of the text message chains suggest that Carroll was soliciting
Petitioner to transport marijuana:
 
                        (1)       Petitioner and Carroll had the following
exchange on February 20, 2017:
 
                        C:        Do u want to do a drive
 
                        P:         How far 
 
                        C:        AZ
 
                        P:         Negative
 
                        C:        30k 
15k each
 
                        P:         Neg 
Az too risky 
 
                        C:        Is there much to drive thru?
 
                        P:         Yes.. Takedown teams.  
 
            (2)       Petitioner and Carroll had the following
exchange on March 13, 2017:
 
                        C:        Would you be willing to take a trip to
Oregon.  Driving.
 
                        P:         No
 
                        C:        Ok in cali only?
 
                        P:         Seems like there’s way too much risk
going on right now  I don’t know if I
want to drive anymore bro  I’ve heard a
lot of people getting stopped  
            
(AR 395-396, 399-400.)  In each exchange, however, Petitioner refused
to participate in the transportation, which the hearing officer recognized:
 
The record evidence does contain a substantial number of
discussions via text messages and telephone calls between [Petitioner] and
Carroll regarding taking trips that seemingly involved activity that was not
legitimate yet those trips were never assented to by [Petitioner] and never
materialized . . . .  Yet, when all is
said and done, these discussions just boil down to discussion that occurred
between [Petitioner] and Carroll since the Department presented no preponderant
evidence that during [Petitioner’s] relationship with Carroll either one of
them engaged or pursued in illegal activity.
 
(AR 147-148.)  Therefore, the hearing officer found that the
true charges were not true.  (AR 145,
148.)  
 
            The
Commission rejected the hearing officer’s findings and conclusions and issued
revised findings of fact and conclusions of law.  (See AR 198-199.)  The Commission’s findings and conclusions were
only two pages long.  (See ibid.)  The Commission found: “There was sufficient
evidence in the record that there was a willingness on the part of
[Petitioner], a member of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, to
participate in the violation of a federal statute involving growing, possessing
or using marijuana.”  (AR 199.)  This was a conclusory finding, as there was
no discussion of this “sufficient evidence” or the Department’s heavy reliance
on hearsay.  Inadmissible hearsay cannot
support a finding standing alone, per Civil Service Commission Rule
4.10(B).  Nor did the Commission discuss
how a “willingness” violates the policies at issue.   
 

            This
petition for writ of mandate follows.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because Petitioner’s
discharge concerns a fundamental vested right in Petitioner’s employment with County,
the court exercises its independent judgment on the administrative
findings.  (See Wences v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  Under the independent judgment
test, “the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors
of law, but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed
in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) 
The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its own determinations as to the credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison
v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners
(2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The
court is confused by the Commission’s conclusory finding that “[t]here was
sufficient evidence in the record that there was a willingness on the part of
[Petitioner], a member of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, to
participate in the violation of a federal statute involving growing, possessing
or using marijuana.”  (AR 199.)  While the record is clear that Petitioner and
Carroll knew each other, and that Petitioner may have known that Carroll had
some interest and/or involvement in the marijuana trade—which is lawful in
California—the court could not find the “sufficient evidence” upon which the
Commission relies.  Petitioner’s own
statements and the text messages—which are admissible notwithstanding the
hearsay rule—do not establish his involvement in the marijuana trade.[1]  To the contrary, Petitioner denied having
been involved and rejected Carroll’s requests to “drive,” which was
corroborated by Carroll’s statements to investigators.  The remaining evidence is largely hearsay,
which is insufficient standing alone to support the findings, per Civil Service
Commission Rule 4.10(b).  Even that
evidence does not clearly support the Commission’s finding.
 
            The
Commission seemed to rely on Petitioner’s text messages to Carroll.  These text messages suggest that Carroll was
attempting to hire Petitioner to transport marijuana based upon the amount of
money involved in one transportation (“30k 15k each”) and Petitioner’s concern that
there was “too much risk,” of “getting stopped,” and being subject to a
“takedown.”  Although Petitioner rejected
the offers, he did so based upon the risk, and not because it was unlawful
under federal law.  If this reflects a
“willingness” to participate in the transportation of marijuana, i.e.,
if the risk was lower, the Commission does not explain how this “willingness”
violated the policies at issue.  Section
3-01/030.05 seems to prohibit “act[s]” and “behav[ior],” not potential actions
under the right circumstances.  Nor does
the Commission explain how these text messages might evidence a violation of
Section 3-01/050.86, which governs prohibited associations, or address the
hearing officer’s findings on this charge. 
 
 
            The
Commission’s failure to address the evidence and explain how the evidence
supports violations of Department policy constitutes an abuse of discretion
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
In
Topanga, the California Supreme
Court has held that “implicit in [Code of Civil Procedure] section
1094.5 is a requirement that the agency which renders the challenged decision
must set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and
ultimate decision or order.”  (Topanga,
supra, 11 Cal.3d at 515.)  
 
[A]mong other
functions, … findings enable the reviewing court to trace and examine the
agency's mode of analysis.…  Absent such
roadsigns, a reviewing court would be forced into unguided and
resource-consuming explorations; it would have to grope through the record to
determine whether some combination of credible evidentiary items which
supported some line of factual and legal conclusions supported the ultimate
order or decision of the agency….
 
(Id. at
516-517.)  Although administrative agency
findings are entitled to considerable latitude, “mere conclusory findings
without reference to the record are inadequate.”  (West Chandler Blvd. Neighborhood Ass’n
vs. City of Los Angeles (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1506, 1521-22.)  If the court “cannot discern the analytic route
the [agency] traveled from evidence to action,” the decision does not comply
with Topanga.  (Ibid.)  
 
Petitioner does not challenge the hearing
officer and the Commission’s findings that he engaged in outside employment
without approval.  However, the maximum penalty
on that charge is a three-day suspension. 
(See AR 144.)  Therefore, the
undisputed finding does not support the penalty of termination.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants Petitioner’s petition
for writ of mandate.  
 
            2.         The court remands the case to the Civil
Service Commission for reconsideration of the case in light of the court’s
opinion and judgment.  (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1094.5(f).)  The court takes no
position on how the Civil Service Commission exercises its discretion following
remand.[2]
 
            3.         The
parties shall meet-and-confer and shall lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            4.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated:  September 19, 2024                                       ________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch 
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 


