  Case Number:  22STCV15317    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  49 DailyGobble, Inc. v. Amit Jain, et al.(1) DEFENDANT AMIT JAIN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION(2) DEFENDANT CHIRAG PATIL’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION(3) DEFENDANT ALLIANCE GROUP VENTURES, LLC’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING PARTY: Defendants (1) Amit Jain, (2) Chirag Patil, and (3) Alliance Group Ventures, LLCRESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Dailygobble, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff DailyGobble, Inc., brings this Complaint against Defendants Amit Jain, Alliance Group Ventures, LLC, and Chirag Patil.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant Jain is the CEO of Bridg, Inc., and Plaintiff DailyGobble held a sizeable number of shares in Bridg.  Defendant Jain approached Plaintiff about a potential sale of its shares, and falsely represented that the shares were worth no more than $0.75 each. At the same time, Defendant was negotiating a sale of Bridg in a transaction that would represent a substantial premium from the valuation Jain disclosed to DailyGobble. In reliance on Jain’s representations, Plaintiff DailyGobble sold 851,601 shares of Bridg stock to Alliance Group Ventures, purportedly operated by and for Defendant Patil, at a price of $0.725 per share. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Alliance Group and Patil are fronts for Defendant Jain.  Months after Plaintiff sold its shares, Cardlytics, Inc. acquired all of Bridg’s outstanding stock at $9 per share, a 1200% increase in the price Plaintiff received for its shares.Defendants Amit Jain, Chirag Patil, and Alliance Group Ventures, LLC  [FN 1], now move for summary judgment or adjudication. Plaintiff opposed the motions.TENTATIVE RULING:Based upon the current record before this Court, Defendant Amit Jain’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  However, as discussed infra, there is a possibility that the MSJ could be DENIED.Defendants Alliance Group Venture’s and Chirag Patil’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is also DENIED.DISCUSSION:Defendant Amit Jain’s Motion for Summary JudgmentI. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843. In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741. II. AnalysisA. Background AllegationsIn analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)Defendant Amit Jain is the CEO of Bridg, Inc. (SAC ¶ 2.) Plaintiff Dailygobble was a Bridg shareholder. (Id. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that Jain made “false representations and material omissions” regarding the fair market price of Bridg’s shares “to convince DailyGobble to sell its shares of Bridg just before a significant acquisition that he knew would substantially increase those shares’ value.” (Id.) In reliance on these representations, Dailygobble sold 851,601 shares at $0.725 per share to Defendant Chirag Patil and his newly formed company, Alliance Group Ventures, which are a “front” for Defendant Jain, his family members, and others. (Id. ¶¶ 1, 8, 9.) “Just a few months” later, third-party Cardlytics Inc., purchased all of Bridg’s outstanding stock at $9 per share, “a 1200% increase in the price Plaintiff received.” (Id. ¶ 13.) “Had Plaintiff not sold its shares due to Defendants’ fraud,” Plaintiff alleges, “Plaintiff would have received at least an additional $7,046,998.28 from the sale to Cardlytics, with the potential for millions of dollars more in additional earnout payments.” (Id.) In the operative Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff asserts two causes of action against Jain for conversion and disgorgement. Plaintiff also asserts three causes of action against Defendants Alliance and Patil for fraud, conversion, and disgorgement.Fraud Against Alliance and Patil: In the second cause of action for fraud, Plaintiff alleges that “Alliance Group Ventures and Patil misrepresented, in violation of section 3(b) of the Stock Transfer Agreement, that Alliance was acquiring the Shares for investment for Alliance’s own account only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any ‘distribution’ of the Share.” (SAC ¶ 82.) In paragraph 3(b), Alliance Group Ventures, as transferee, represented to Bridg and DailyGobble that it was “acquiring the Shares for investment for Transferee’s own account only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any ‘distribution’ of the Shares within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Transferee has no contract, undertaking, or arrangement to sell or transfer the Shares to another person.” (RJN, Exh. 5, ¶ 3(b).)Plaintiff alleges Defendant violated paragraph 3(b) because “Alliance Group Ventures was actually a straw purchaser acting on behalf of Defendant Jain, which fully intended to distribute the discounted Bridg shares to his family and business associates (including board member(s) of the purchaser Cardlytics and executives or board members of Bridg’s current and future customers.” (SAC ¶ 84.) It is further alleged, in fact, that “[a]fter purchasing DailyGobble’s shares, Alliance Group Ventures did distribute the shares it acquired to Jain’s family, friends, and business associates.” (Id. ¶ 85.) Conversion Against Jain, Alliance, and Patil: In the third cause of action for conversion, Plaintiff alleges Defendants mispresented the fair market value of the Bridg stock, thereby prompting Plaintiff’s sale of the stock to Jain’s associates. (SAC ¶ 93.) Defendants also allegedly made “omissions concerning acquisition talks with respect to Bridg; and/or omissions and representations concerning the ownership makeup and distribution plans of Alliance Group Ventures.” (Id.) Disgorgement Against Jain, Alliance, and Patil: Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for “Disgorgement of Insider Trading Proceeds” under California Corporations Code sections 25402 and 25502. (SAC ¶ 118.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Jain, as CEO of Bridg, possessed insider trading knowledge as he was aware at the time of subject stock transfer that “Bridg was in discussions to be acquired at a much higher price per share than that being negotiated by DailyGobble with Alliance Group Venture.” (SAC ¶ 119.) Using Alliance Group Ventures as a “vehicle,” Jain allegedly “coordinated to acquire DailyGobble’s shares in Bridg for himself and his family, friends, and business associates…at a much lower price than would be possible were his insider knowledge publicly known.” (Id. ¶¶ 121, 122.) “Defendant Alliance Group Ventures, Jain, Patil, and the other members and recipients of Alliance Group Ventures…subsequently enjoyed a substantial profit, estimated as no less than the delta between the price it paid for DailyGobble’s shares and Cardlytics’s purchase price—$8.275 per share, or $7,046,998.28.” (Id. ¶ 123.) B. Seventh Cause of Action for DisgorgementThe burden begins with Defendant to show that “one or more elements of a cause of action . . . cannot be established.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853.)Defendant first argues that Corporations Code Sections 25402 and 25502 contain a strict privity requirement and allow recovery only by persons who bought or sold the security at issue in a transaction with the alleged wrongdoer. Defendant contends the disgorgement cause of action must fails because there was no privity between him and Plaintiff. Defendant provides the following material facts in support of the argument. On November 26, 2020, Plaintiff and Defendant Alliance entered into a stock transfer agreement under which plaintiff sold 851,601 Bridg shares to Alliance. (SSUMF 1.) The Stock Transfer Agreement was a “sale of stock privately negotiated between plaintiff and Alliance and did not involve the purchase or sale of any stock in the open market.” (SSUMF 2.) At the time of the sale, Bridg was a private company. (SSUMF 3.) Plaintiff never bought any Bridg shares from Defendant Jain or sold any Bridg shares to Defendant Jain. (SSUMF 4.) Defendant Jain never possessed Plaintiff’s Bridg shares, and Jain “never acquired any units in Alliance and Alliance never sold any Bridg shares to Jain.” (SSUMF 5, 6.) Likewise, no member of Alliance sold any Alliance units or Bridg shares to Jain. (SSUMF 7.) Defendant Jain was not an investor of Alliance. (SSUMF 8.) In opposition, Plaintiff disputes that any direct privity requirement exists. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that the situation here—where Alliance and Patil were essentially “straw” purchasers for Jain—is sufficient to meet the privity requirement, assuming one exists. “In general, section 25402 prohibits so-called insider trading by the issuer of securities or by any person who is an officer, director or controlling person of an issuer.” (Friese v. Superior Ct. (2005) 134 Cal. App. 4th 693, 697.) Section 25502 provides for a private right of action for the violation of section 25402. Section 25502 provides that “[a]ny person who violates Section 25402 shall be liable to the person who purchases a security from him or sells a security to him” for damages. (Emphasis added.) By its plain terms, the italicized language of the statute seems to require strict privity. Federal authorities addressing sections 25502 and 25402—while not binding—have recognized the strict privity requirement. (See, e.g., Daisy Sys. Corp. v. Finegold, No. C 86-20719(SW), 1988 WL 166235, at *5 (N.D. Cal. Sept. 19, 1988) [sections 25502 and 25402 “only allow recovery by a person who bought or sold the security from the alleged wrongdoer”]; In re Rasterops Corp. Sec. Litig., No. C-92-20349 RMW (EAI), 1993 WL 183510, at *5 (N.D. Cal. Jan. 6, 1993) [“These sections of the California Corporations Code provide a remedy only to one in privity with an insider,” and “[b]ecause plaintiffs have failed to allege privity, these claims should be dismissed”]; In re Rational Software Sec. Litig., 28 F. Supp. 2d 562, 567 (N.D. Cal. 1998), vacated on other grounds [“only persons who actually bought securities from or sold securities to the wrongdoer may pursue a claim under” sections 25502 and 25402].)Perhaps most convincing, however, is Defendant’s reliance on the California Court of Appeal’s decision in Apollo Cap. Fund, LLC v. Roth Cap. Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal. App. 4th 226, 252.  [FN 2]  There, the Court addressed neighboring portions of the Corporations Code, sections 25401 and 25501. Section 25401 makes it unlawful “for any person to offer or sell a security in this state” by means of untrue statements or omissions of material fact. Section 25501 provides that any person who violates section 25401 “shall be liable to the person who purchases a security from, or sells a security to, that person,” for rescission or damages. (§ 25501.)Notably, section 25501—which provides a private right of action for violation of section 25401—is nearly identical to section 25502 (providing a private right of action for violation of section 25402). Just as section 25501 makes a person liable “to the person who purchases a security from, or sells a security to, that person,” section 25502 makes a person liable “to the person who purchases a security from him or sells a security to him.” (§§ 25501 & 25502.)Addressing section 25501, the Apollo Court noted the language “on its face requires privity between the plaintiff and the defendant.” (Apollo Cap. Fund, LLC, supra, 158 Cal. App. 4th at 253.) Thus, where the plaintiffs “purchased their securities from [another entity], not from [the defendant],” the defendant “cannot be civilly liable for a violation of section 25401.” (Id.) Notably, the Court rejected the plaintiffs’ contention that liability under section 25401 should also attach “to one who actively solicits the sale of the securities with a motive of benefiting himself financially.” (Id. at 254.) Noting a deviation from federal law on this point, the Court held it was “persuaded by the authorities and by the structure of the California statute that …liability under section 25501 attaches only to the actual seller of the securities…” (Id. at 254.) Applying the same principles to the instant case, section 25502 requires actual privity between Plaintiff and Defendant Jain to hold Jain liable for violation of section 25402. Because it is undisputed that Defendant Jain did not receive shares of Bridg, the cause of action against him fails. This is true even though Defendant Jain may have organized the sale and benefitted handsomely from it, because one who “actively solicits the sale of the securities with a motive of benefiting himself financially” is not liable without actual privity. (Id. at 254.)Plaintiff then argues that even if privity is limited to the nominal purchaser, that privity exists because Defendant Jain is the “alter ego” of Alliance Group Ventures. However, Plaintiff did not allege an alter ego theory in the SAC, nor facts to support the imposition of the same. (See SAC, generally.) In a summary judgment proceeding, the Complaint “delimit[s] the scope of the issues” and “frame[s] the outer measure of materiality.” (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381; Conroy v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1250 [the pleadings “set the boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment].”) Thus, “[a] defendant's motion for summary judgment necessarily includes a test of the sufficiency of the complaint.” (Am. Airlines, Inc. v. Cnty. of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 1110, 1117.) “A complaint must set forth the facts with sufficient precision to put the defendant on notice about what the plaintiff is complaining and what remedies are being sought. [Citation.] To recover on an alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words “alter ego,” but must allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 399, 415.) Here, “[b]ecause the alter ego theory was not adequately pleaded,” Defendant “had no burden to show that plaintiffs' alter ego claim could not be established.” (Id. at 416.) This raises another issue. Where, as here, a “defect appears on the face of the complaint, a trial court may elect to treat the hearing of the summary judgment motion as a motion for judgment on the pleadings and grant the opposing party an opportunity to file an amended complaint to correct the defect.” (Hobson v. Raychem Corp. (1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 614, 625 [disapproved of on other grounds by Colmenares v. Braemar Country Club, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1019].) Consistent with the policy favoring liberal amendment, a request for leave to amend “may be made at the hearing or any time before entry of judgment.” (Mediterranean Construction Co. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 257, 264.) While Plaintiff did not specifically ask for leave to amend to plead an alter ego theory, it did request leave to assert “new claims” for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy, and aiding the abetting in the event this court grants summary judgment. (Opp. 20: 20-21.) This court recognizes the strong policy favoring the liberal grant of leave to amend “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) However, “leave to amend may be denied where permitting an amendment would be futile.” (Singh v. Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813, 828.)Assuming this court gives Plaintiff leave to amend only as to plead an alter ego theory against Defendant Jain, the question becomes whether doing so would be futile. Based on the evidence and argument proffered, there exists an apparent tension between the viability of an alter ego theory and the Court of Appeal’s statement in Apollo that liability attaches only where actual privity exists. (See Apollo Cap. Fund, LLC, supra, 158 Cal. App. 4th at 254 [stating that absent privity, liability will not attach, even “to one who actively solicits the sale of the securities with a motive of benefiting himself financially”].) In other words, does Apollo preclude Plaintiff from proceeding with this claim on an alter ego theory? The parties may address this issue at the hearing or, if requested and necessary, through supplemental briefing.Be that as it may, based upon the current record before this Court, Defendant Jain’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Seventh Cause of Action is GRANTED. C. Third Cause of Action for ConversionFirst, Defendant argues the conversion claim must fail with the disgorgement claim. It relies solely on this court’s language in the July 12, 2023 Ruling on Defendants’ Demurrer to the conversion cause of action, which stated “[b]ecause Defendant Jain’s demurrer is overruled as to the Seventh Cause of Action, this cause of action survives.” (See 07/12/23 Ruling on Demurrer, p. 13.) However, that was only because “the parties agree[d] the conversion claim [was] dependent on pleading at least one other cause of action,” and Defendant, as “demurring party, provide[d] no other arguments why the claim should fail.” (Id.)Defendant next argues that Delaware law does not permit conversion based on the payment of money, absent some exceptions. Generally, conversion is a standalone tort claim with its own elements. “Conversion is the ‘act of dominion wrongfully exerted over the property of another, in denial of his right, or inconsistent with it .’” (Gould v. Gould, No. CIV.A. 3332-VCP, 2012 WL 3291850, at *7 (Del. Ch. Aug. 14, 2012). To prove conversion under Delaware law, “a plaintiff must show that: (1) it had ‘a property interest in equipment or other property’; (2) it had ‘a right to possession of the property’; and (3) ‘the property was converted.’” (Id.)A stockholder's shares may be the subject of a conversion action. (See Arnold v. Soc'y for Sav. Bancorp, Inc. (Del. 1996) 678 A.2d 533, 536.) “[T]he measure of damages for wrongful conversion of stock or properties of like character is the higher value of either: “(1) its value at the time of conversion or (2) its highest intermediate value between notice of the conversion and a reasonable time thereafter during which the stock could have been replaced…” (Diamond Fortress Techs., Inc. v. EverID, Inc. (2022) 274 A.3d 287, 307.) Therefore, the shares at issue are the proper subject(s) of a conversion action.Next, Defendant argues he never exercised “control or dominion” over the transferred shares. Rather, Defendant contends “it is not disputed that DailyGobble transferred its 851,601 Bridg shares to Alliance, not to Jain.” (Mtn. 23: 13-14, emphasis in original.) Defendant reiterates that he never bought any Bridg shares from plaintiff or from Alliance, and he never acquired any units in Alliance (SSUMF 4, 6); that he was not an investor in Alliance (SSUMF 8); or that he ever possessed the Bridg shares that plaintiff sold to Alliance. (SSUMF 5.) Defendant has therefore met his initial burden. This switches the burden to Plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists. (§ 437c(o)(2).) The above facts appear undisputed. In opposition, Plaintiff instead argues, like it did previously, that Alliance Group Ventures “was nothing but Jain’s alter ego.” (Opp. 19: 25.)  Again, Plaintiff did not allege in the SAC that Alliance Group was Jain’s alter ego. Because the SAC “delimit[s] the scope of the issues” and “frame[s] the outer measure of materiality,” Plaintiff cannot raise this argument now. (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381.) Plaintiff has therefore failed to create a trial issue on whether Jain exercised dominion over the shares.Once again, though, as in the case of the Seventh Cause of Action, discussed supra, this Court still could treat the MSJ/MSA as a motion for judgment on the pleadings, and grant same with leave to amend on the alter ego theory.  In such an event, would the result of the MSJ/MSA change to a denial?Counsel should be prepared to address that issue at the hearing, or by supplemental briefing, if allowed.Be that as it may, based upon the current record before this Court, Defendant Jain’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is GRANTED. Since all causes of action currently against Defendant Jain are to be granted, his Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendants Alliance Group Ventures and Chirag Patil’s Motion for Summary JudgmentAnalysisDefendants Alliance Group Ventures and Chirag Patil also move for summary judgment of the three remaining causes of action against them. Each is addressed in turn.A. Seventh Cause of Action for Disgorgement1. Application to Privately Negotiated TransfersFirst, Defendants argue the Seventh Cause of Action for Disgorgement fails because the insider trading statute does not apply to privately negotiated stock transfer agreements. Defendants assert that “[r]esearch unearthed after the Court’s July 2023 Demurrer Ruling has confirmed that that Section[s] [25502 and 25402] do not apply to privately negotiated stock transfer agreements where the shares at issue are not traded on the open market.” (Mtn. 6: 14-16.) Defendants first rely on a treatise from Harold Marsh Jr. and Robert H. Volk. In “Practice Under the California Securities Laws: Revision of Practice Under the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968,” the drafters addressed section 25402’s requirement that the insider’s “material information” must “significantly affect the market price” of a security. (§ 25402.) To that point, the treatise states: Another purpose in including the reference to information which would significantly affect the market price was to indicate that these sections were intended to be applicable only to situations where purchases or sales were made in the market. Some concern was expressed by attorneys during the drafting of the statute that these sections might be construed to apply to a negotiated sale of a controlling block of stock where specific warranties are included in the written agreement and all other warranties are expressly excluded. There was no intention in these provisions of denying effectiveness to such a disclaimer of warranties in a negotiated transaction.(1 Marsh & Volk, Practice Under the Cal. Securities Laws (rev. ed. 2023) §14.04[2][a], p. 14-49.)  [FN 3]The only identified authority adopting this view comes from the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In Tse v. Ventana Med. Sys., Inc., No. C.A. 97-37-SLR, 1998 WL 743668 (D. Del. Sept. 23, 1998) the court relied on the Marsh & Volk treatise and the “plain language of the statute” to conclude section 25402 precluded insider liability where the action involved “a negotiated sale of stock, not a market transaction.” (Id. *12.) The court noted that it was “unaware of, and the parties ha[d] not provided, any California case law interpreting this requirement generally, much less in a context similar to that at bar.” (Id.)“In construing a statute, our primary goal is to ascertain the intent of the lawmakers so as to effectuate the purpose of the statute. We begin as always with the statute's actual words, the most reliable indicator of legislative intent, assigning them their usual and ordinary meanings, and construing them in context. If the words appear susceptible of more than one reasonable construction, we look to other indicia of legislative intent, bearing in mind the admonition that the meaning of a statute may not be determined from a single word or sentence and that apparent ambiguities often may be resolved by examining the context in which the language appears and adopting the construction which best serves to harmonize the statute internally and with related statutes.” (High Sierra Rural All. v. Cnty. of Plumas (2018) 29 Cal. App. 5th 102, 112 [internal citations omitted; cleaned up].)Here, the plain language of sections 25402 or 25502, standing alone, is hardly clear evidence that the statutes apply only to transactions on the “open market.” Any clear intent to limit the statute to only those transactions occurring on an open market or stock exchange is absent from the text. One can imagine numerous ways the legislature could have drafted the statute if it intended to impose such a requirement. Defendants have also provided no legislative history suggesting that the legislature considered this when enacting the statute. On this record, the court cannot conclude that sections 25402 and 25502 apply only to shares traded on the open market. Accordingly, Defendants’ argument fails.2. Liability of “Tippees”Next, Defendants argue they are not liable under section 25402 because they lack the requisite relationship to the “issuer” of the stock. Section 25402 imposes liability on “an issuer or any person who is an officer, director or controlling person of an issuer or any other person whose relationship to the issuer gives him access, directly or indirectly, to material information about the issuer not generally available to the public.” Thus, to be liable, one must be either (1) “an issuer,” (2) “an officer, director or controlling person of an issuer,” or (3) “any other person whose relationship to the issuer gives him access, directly or indirectly, to material information about the issuer not generally available to the public.” There is no dispute that Defendants are not the issuer or officers, director, or controlling person of the issuer. Therefore, they must be a “person whose relationship to the issuer gives him access, directly or indirectly, to material information about the issuer not generally available to the public.” (§ 25402.) Defendants argue they do not fall within this category because they had no relationship to Bridg—the issuer—at the time they entered into the agreement, “let alone the kind of relationship that gave them access to material information about Bridg not generally available to the public.” (Mtn. 9: 16-17.) The court finds that triable issues of material fact exist regarding the “relationship” between Bridg and the moving Defendants. Defendant Patil testified that he and Defendant Jain, CEO of Bridg, were “good friends” who saw each other multiple times per month on average. (SSDMF 5.) The evidence also suggests that Patil may have obtained insider information. In texts, Patil told a friend that the share price was “undervalued.” (Id.) In another text to a friend Anish Aswani—who had declined to participate in the transfer—Patil stated that he had made “12X to [his] late investment plus earn out” and “wish[ed] [Aswani] had joined” in the deal. (SSDMF 5; D’s Compendium of Evidence, Exh. 45.) Aswani responded “Dude!,” to which Patil replied, “Uggh I Know [¶] I could not give you [¶] Any inside info.” (Id.) Aswani then asked Patil if he “kn[ew] that was on the horizon,” to which Patil responds: “I knew it was going to be a good exit but thought it was 2 years away.” (Id.) This evidence suggests that Patil possessed “inside info” that he had not shared with Aswani. This is further supported by the close friendship between Patil and Jain. The court is mindful of its duty to “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Doing so here, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact whether Defendants qualify as persons “whose relationship to the issuer gives him access, directly or indirectly, to material information about the issuer not generally available to the public.” (§ 25402.) Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of Action is DENIED. B. Second Cause of Action for FraudDefendants also move for summary adjudication of the Second Cause of Action for Fraud. As discussed previously when ruling on the demurrers, Delaware law prohibits a party from claiming fraud where the governing transfer agreement contains an anti-reliance provision, as it does here. (Abry Partners V, L.P. v. F&W Acquisition LLC (Del. Ch. 2006) 891 A.2d 1032.) However, where misrepresentations are made within the four-corners of the agreement, a fraud claim is available. (See id. [referring to “promises and representations outside of the agreement”].)In the second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Alliance Group Ventures and Patil misrepresented, in violation of section 3(b) of the Stock Transfer Agreement, that Alliance was acquiring the Shares for investment for Alliance’s own account only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any ‘distribution’ of the Share.” (SAC ¶ 82.) In paragraph 3(b) of the Stock Transfer Agreement, Alliance Group Ventures, as transferee, represented to Bridg and DailyGobble that it was “acquiring the Shares for investment for Transferee’s own account only and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any ‘distribution’ of the Shares within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Transferee has no contract, undertaking, or arrangement to sell or transfer the Shares to another person.” Plaintiff alleges Defendants violated paragraph 3(b) because “Alliance Group Ventures was actually a straw purchaser acting on behalf of Defendant Jain, which fully intended to distribute the discounted Bridg shares to his family and business associates (including board member(s) of the purchaser Cardlytics and executives or board members of Bridg’s current and future customers.” (SAC ¶ 84.) It is further alleged, in fact, that “[a]fter purchasing DailyGobble’s shares, Alliance Group Ventures did distribute the shares it acquired to Jain’s family, friends, and business associates.” (Id. ¶ 85.) In support of the MSJ, Defendants argue Alliance did not lie in section 3(b) of the Stock Transfer Agreement “because Alliance never sold or transferred the Shares to anyone at any time.” (Mtn. 17: 8-9 [emphasis in original].) Instead, Defendants submit they sold “membership units” in Alliance—not shares. (Mtn. 17: 11.) Thus, Defendants argue, because there was no “literal falsehood” made in the Stock Transfer Agreement, the fraud claim must fail. Defendants assert that “no reasonable trier of fact could conclude that Plaintiff reasonably intended for…Section 3(b) to prohibit Alliance from offering LLC membership units to third-party investors.” (Mtn. 19: 10-12.) The question therefore becomes whether the parties could have intended “shares” to encompass “membership units.” “The fundamental goal of contractual interpretation is to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties. The mutual intention to which the courts give effect is determined by objective manifestations of the parties' intent, including the words used in the agreement, as well as extrinsic evidence of such objective matters as the surrounding circumstances under which the parties negotiated or entered into the contract; the object, nature and subject matter of the contract; and the subsequent conduct of the parties.” (Wolf v. Superior Ct. (2004) 114 Cal. App. 4th 1343, 1356.)Plaintiff presents evidence that AGV’s Operating Agreement has 851,601 “Class B Units” and ties each of those “Class B Units” to one of the 851,601 Bridg shares purchased from Plaintiff. (SSDMF 22.) Thus, the membership units and shares are tied to a 1 to 1 ratio. In addition, Alliance had no other assets and conducted no business. (Id.) It exists solely for the purpose of acquiring Plaintiff’s Bridg shares and redistributing them as “Class B Units.” (Id.) At his deposition, Jain testified that Alliance’s investors understood “they were buying units in AGV [] which corresponded to shares of Bridg.” (Id.)On the other hand, section 3(b) appeared with identical language in the prior stock transfer agreement between Dailygobble and Bponte, as well as a subsequent stock transfer agreement for Dazhi Chen’s personal shares in Bridg. (SSUMF 26, 27.)  Ultimately, the circumstances existing before and after the parties signed the Stock Transfer Agreement—while relevant to the question—evince the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (See Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389 [courts must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of Action is DENIED.C. Third Cause of Action for ConversionFinally, Defendants argue it is “crystal clear” under Delaware law that money cannot be the subject of conversion claim, excepted under limited circumstances. But as discussed in Defendant Jain’s demurrer, a stockholder's shares may be the subject of a conversion action. (See Arnold v. Soc'y for Sav. Bancorp, Inc. (Del. 1996) 678 A.2d 533, 536.) “[T]he measure of damages for wrongful conversion of stock or properties of like character is the higher value of either: “(1) its value at the time of conversion or (2) its highest intermediate value between notice of the conversion and a reasonable time thereafter during which the stock could have been replaced…” (Diamond Fortress Techs., Inc. v. EverID, Inc. (2022) 274 A.3d 287, 307.) Therefore, the shares at issue are the proper subject(s) of a conversion action.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Third Cause of Action is DENIED.Hence, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   May 16, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1- Defendants Alliance Group Ventures and Chirag
Patil filed a joint memorandum of points and authorities. Their arguments are
addressed together.FN 2- Defendant raised this case twice in its motion. (See Motion at 14: 6-11; 15: 25-28.) Plaintiff did not discuss it, much less distinguish it, in opposition. FN 3- In fairness, Marsh & Volk carries weight. Courts describe Marsh & Volk as the “leading treatise” in securities law. (California Amplifier, Inc. v. RLI Ins. Co. (2001) 94 Cal. App. 4th 102, 110.) Indeed, “Professor Harold Marsh, Jr., was the reporter for the committee that drafted the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968, which includes sections 25400 and 25500. Robert H. Volk was Commissioner of Corporations at that time.” (Mirkin v. Wasserman (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 1082, 1103.)