 Case Number:  23STCV21222    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2025    Dept:  29 Holder v. AG Redlands, LLC
23STCV21222
Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue
Defendant’s Demurrer
 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.
Background
On September 1, 2023, Elvia Holder by and through her
successor-in-interest Daniel Holder, and Daniel Holder (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action against AG Redlands, LLC, dba Highland Care
Center of Redlands (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 200, asserting causes
of action for (1) Elder Abuse, (2) Negligence, (3) Violation of Residents
Rights, and (4) Wrongful Death, all arising out of care Elvia Holder received
while a resident at Defendant’s facilities prior to her death on June 22, 2022.
 
On November 13, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to change
venue.  No opposition has been filed.
 
On November 14, 2024, a signed, joint stipulation to
transfer venue was filed. It was rejected, however, as it did not state which
party would pay the transfer fees.
 
On November 13, Defendant filed its demurrer. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on December 4; Defendant filed a reply on December 6.
 
On December 17, 2024, the motion to change venue and the
demurrer came on for hearing.  The Court
posted its tentative and continued the hearing to give Defendant the
opportunity to cure a procedural defect in the motion to change venue.
 
Nothing has been filed since.  It does not appear to the Court that the
procedural defect has been cured.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 395 provides in part as
follows:
“[S]ubject to the power of the court to transfer actions or
proceedings as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where
the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action. If the action is for injury to person
or personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior
court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing death
occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 397 provides, among other
things, that the court may “change the place of trial” when “the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 397, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Defendant seeks to transfer this matter to San Bernardino
County Superior Court.  The events at issue all took place at a
skilled nursing facility located on Highland Avenue in
Redlands.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 4, 17-26; Kim Decl., ¶ 3.)  Indeed,
Plaintiff and Defendant stipulated to this fact – although the stipulation to
change venue was denied for procedural reasons.
 
In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is
headquartered in the City of Los Angeles. (Complaint, ¶
3.)  Defendant, in its moving papers, does not contest this
point.  Thus, from the record, the Court concludes that Los Angeles
County Superior Court is a proper venue under Code of Civil Procedure section
395, subdivision (a).  Nonetheless, for the convenience of the
witnesses and to promote the ends of justice, changing venue to San Bernardino
County is likely appropriate under Code of Civil Procedure section 397,
subdivision (c).
 
When a motion to change venue is sought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 397, subdivision (c), “the costs and fees of the transfer,
and of filing the papers in the court to which the transfer is ordered, shall
be paid at the time the notice of motion is filed by the party making the
motion for the transfer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 399, subd.
(a).)  Here, however, there is no evidence that Defendant, the moving
party, posted those fees at the time the notice of motion was filed.
 
The Court previously continued the hearing to give Defendant
the opportunity to cure this procedural defect and pay the fees required for
the requested transfer.  There is nothing
in the Court file indicating that the fees have been paid.
 
If the fees have been paid, the Court’s tentative ruling is
to grant the motion to change venue and place the demurrer off calendar (as the
transferee court, and not this Court, should rule on it).
 
If the fees have not been paid, and Defendant does not
intend to pay them, the Court’s tentative ruling is to deny the motion to
change venue on that basis and continue the hearing on the demurrer.
 
Conclusion
The Court will call this matter.
 