  Case Number:  23NWLC06651    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  26   
Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. v. Figueroa
Maintenance Services, Inc., et al.LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING
(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED AND SERVED WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS
ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendant Figueroa’s Maintenance Services, Inc. aka Figueroa’s Maintenance
Services (“Defendant”) on March 13, 2023. On June 27, 2023, Defendant filed an
answer. The case was originally assigned to the collections hub before being
transferred to the limited jurisdiction court. (Minute Orders, 11/28/23 and
12/03/23.) 
 
Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint on March 6,
2024. No opposition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, open book
account, account stated, and reasonable value with respect to Defendant’s
alleged failure to pay insurance premiums owed to Plaintiff’s assignor, State
Compensation Insurance Fund. (Compl., ¶¶11-14.) 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. Specifically,
Plaintiff seeks leave to file a First
Amended Complaint to assert treble damages in the prayer for damages
based on Defendant’s failure to complete a physical audit for the 2021 insurance
policy at issue. (Motion, Aphosian Decl., ¶¶3-8.) Discovery to complete the
audit was propounded on Defendant in June 2023 but Defendant did not comply
with the requirements to complete the audit. (Id. at ¶¶3-8 and Exh. 1.) Treble
damages for Defendant’s alleged non-cooperation with the audit are available
pursuant to Insurance Code section 11760.1. (Id. at ¶7.)
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines of the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
As noted above, Plaintiff’s Motion is supported by a
declaration explaining what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. A copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint is
attached to the Motion. (Id. at Exh. 3.) Finally, the Motion “set[s]
forth explicitly what allegations are to be added and where” with “specifications
by reference to pages and lines of the allegations that would be deleted and
added” as required by CRC Rule 3.1324. (Motion, pp. 5:12-7:13.) 
 
The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . . .” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) However, “[a] different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend the Complaint to address Defendant’s filing of the
cross-complaint There is no indication of excusable delay nor prejudice to
Defendant. 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED. THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED AND SERVED WITHIN 20 DAYS
OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 