..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Not specified
Defendant's Name: Not specified
People-Names: Coito, Jones
Company-Names: None
Places: California
Dates:
  - Not specified
Events: Court hearing, trial preparation
Money: Not mentioned
Intentions: To clarify what constitutes work product
Facts: Courts have resolved whether particular materials constitute work product on a case-by-case basis
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Preparation for trial, compilation of materials
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure § 2018.030, California Constitution
Case Citations: Coito, supra, 54 Cal.4th at pp. 488–489, People v. Superior Court (Jones) (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 75, 81, aff'd and remanded (2021) 12 Cal.5th 348
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure § 2018.030
Roles: Judge, attorneys, investigators
Significant Statements:
  - The language of section 2018.030 does not otherwise define or describe work product
  - Courts have resolved whether particular materials constitute work product on a case-by-case basis
  - Derivative or interpretive material constitutes work product, including diagrams, audit reports, appraisals, and expert opinions
  - Nonderivative material, such as physical evidence or witness identity, does not constitute work product
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is considering a case related to "work product" and how it is defined under California law. The judge notes that the language of section 2018.030 does not provide a clear definition of work product, and that courts have resolved this issue on a case-by-case basis. The judge cites previous cases that have distinguished between derivative or nonderivative material, and between interpretative and evidentiary material. According to these cases, derivative or interpretive material, such as diagrams, audit reports, and expert opinions, constitutes work product. In contrast, nonderivative material, such as physical evidence or witness identity, does not constitute work product. The judge's tentative ruling aims to clarify the scope of work product and how it should be treated in future court proceedings.
