 Case Number:  23STCV30916    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
Hearing Date: 9/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30916 HORACIO GALVAN
vs CAESAR VALIENTE, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
IS DENIED
 
Background
On September 21, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a complaint for leash law violation, assault and battery, false
arrest, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and violation
of the Bane Act. Plaintiff alleges that while walking his dog in front of
Defendant Cesar Valiente's home, Valiente's dog, who was off-leash at the time,
attacked and bit Plaintiff's dog. Plaintiff, carrying a broomstick handle to
protect his dog, used it to "push and prod" Valiente's dog away.
Plaintiff further alleges that Valiente, who works as a Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Deputy, then tackled and detained him. The police arrived shortly
thereafter, at which point Valiente handcuffed Plaintiff, who was subsequently
arrested and spent seven days in jail.  At
the time of the incident, Valiente was off duty and on a leave of absence. 
Defendant County of Los
Angeles now moves the Court for summary judgment/adjudication on the central
issue that Defendant Valiente was not acting within his scope of employment
with the county. Specifically, Defendant County argues:
Issue No. 1: Plaintiff
cannot establish any cause of action against the County because the County
cannot be vicariously liable for the conduct of an off-duty Deputy Sheriff who
was not acting in the course and scope of his employment with the County. 
Issue No. 2: Plaintiff
cannot establish an assault and battery cause of action against the County
because the County cannot be vicariously liable for the conduct of off-duty
Deputy Sheriff who was not acting in the course and scope of employment. 
Issue No. 3: Plaintiff
cannot establish a false arrest and imprisonment cause of action against the
County because the County cannot be vicariously liable for the conduct of off-duty
Deputy Sheriff who was not acting in the course and scope of employment. 
Issue No. 4: Plaintiff
cannot establish an intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of
action against the County because the County cannot be vicariously liable for
the conduct of off-duty Deputy Sheriff who was not acting in the course and
scope of employment. Plaintiff further cannot establish an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action against the County because the
California Government Tort Claims Act, codified at Government Code § 810 et.
seq., renders the County of Los Angeles immune from liability as a public
entity for a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Issue No. 5: Plaintiff
cannot establish a negligence cause of action against the County because the
County cannot be vicariously liable for the conduct of an off-duty Deputy
Sheriff who was not acting in the course and scope of employment. 
Issue No. 6: Plaintiff
cannot establish a cause of action for violation of the Bane Act against the
County because the County cannot be vicariously liable for the conduct of an off-duty
Deputy Sheriff who was not acting in the course and scope of employment.
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court
decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
 
Evidentiary Ruling
The Court overrules
Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Objection Number 14. The Parties did not make
any other objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP
§ 437c(q).) 
Preliminary Issue
Separate Statement
Plaintiff first
presents a procedural argument, asserting that Defendant's separate statement
is defective because it did not individually list the undisputed material facts
for each issue to be adjudicated. Upon review, all the issues to be adjudicated
relate solely to the issue of the scope of employment, and therefore, the court
finds Defendant’s separate statement to be substantially compliant as it
effectively consolidates the pertinent facts into a single coherent issue,
thereby furthering the purpose of the statute for efficient judicial review.
Law on Scope of Employment
To establish the
doctrine of respondeat superior, a plaintiff must prove that the employee's
tortious conduct was committed within the scope of employment. (Ducey v.
Argo Sales Co. (1979) 25 Cal. 3d 707, 721.) "A risk arises out of
the employment when 'in the context of the particular enterprise an employee's
conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair to include the
loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's business.
[Citations.] In other words, where the question is one of vicarious liability,
the inquiry should be whether the risk was one "that may fairly be
regarded as typical of or broadly incidental" to the enterprise undertaken
by the employer (Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) supra,
41 Cal.3d 962, 968.) The employee's tortious conduct must have “a causal nexus
to the employee's work.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem'l Hosp.
(1995) 12 Cal. 4th 291, 297.) “The nexus required for respondeat superior
liability—that the tort be engendered by or arise from the work—is to be
distinguished from ‘but for’ causation… the incident leading to injury must be
an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment; the risk of tortious injury must be ‘inherent
in the working environment’ or “typical of or broadly incidental to the
enterprise [the employer] has undertaken.’ ” (Id.)
Tortious conduct that
violates an employee's official duties or disregards the employer's express
orders may nonetheless be within the scope of employment.  (Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc.,
supra, 41 Cal.3d at p. 969.) Liability has not been limited to situations in
which an employee was on duty at the time the injury occurred. (Rodgers v.
Kemper Const. Co. (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 608.)  On the other hand, to hold an employer
vicariously liable the employee must be " 'engaged in the duties which he
was employed to perform' [or] 'those acts which incidentally or indirectly
contribute to the [employer's] service.' " (Harris v. Oro-Dam
Constructors (1969) 269 Cal. App. 2d 911, 916.) "Conversely, the
employer is not liable when the employee is pursuing 'his own ends.' " (Id.)
Undisputed Facts 
Defendant Cesar
Valiente is employed as a Deputy Sheriff by the County of Los Angeles. The
incident referenced in the operative First Amended Complaint occurred on
November 14, 2021, in Castaic, California 91384. Defendant Cesar Valiente
resides near where the incident underlying this lawsuit occurred. Defendant
Cesar Valiente was at home during the incident referenced in the operative
First Amended Complaint. The dog that allegedly attacked Plaintiff's dog on
November 14, 2021, belongs to Cesar Valiente, not the County of Los Angeles
Sherrif's Department. On November 21, 2021, Defendant Cesar Valiente was
off-duty.
Initial Burden
Defendant has
established that:
·       
On November 21, 2021, the date of the
incident, Cesar Valiente was on a leave of absence and off-duty from his duties
as a Deputy Sheriff with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department (Valiente
Decl., ¶ 5);
·       
On the day of the incident, Valiente was
not wearing a Sheriff's Deputy uniform or any law enforcement attire; instead,
he was dressed in plain clothes (Valiente Decl., ¶ 6; Turk Decl., ¶ 4;
Compendium, Ex. E, Pltf's Resp. to County's RFA (Set 2), Nos. 12, 13;
Compendium, Ex. F, Pltf. Depo, 80:24-24, 142:19-21, 143:3-4, 144:3-5). 
·       
Valiente did not have possession of any
weapons, handcuffs, or other tools typically utilized by Sheriff Deputies
(Valiente Decl., ¶ 7; Turk Decl., ¶ 4; Compendium, Ex. F, Galvan Depo, 143:8 to
144:7; 145:2-6). 
·       
At the scene, Plaintiff was detained by
a uniformed Sheriff Deputy, not Cesar Valiente, and Valiente did not interact
with Plaintiff after his detention (Compendium, Ex. F, Pltf's Depo, 80:16-25;
Compendium Ex G, Valiente Depo., 148:7-12; Compendium Ex E, Pltf. Resp to
County's RFA (Set 2), No. 28; Turk Decl., ¶ 5). 
·       
Valiente also did not inform Plaintiff
that he was under arrest (Valiente Decl., ¶ 8; Turk Decl., ¶ 6, 7; Compendium,
Ex. F, Pltf. Depo, 150:1-3; Compendium, Ex. H, Incident Report).
Defendant has thus shown
that Valiente was off-duty, not in uniform, did not possess any law enforcement
tools, and did not engage in law enforcement activities during the incident.
Therefore, Defendant County has upheld its initial burden to show that
Valiente’s actions were not related to his duties as a deputy sheriff.
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff argues in
response that Valiente was acting within the scope of his employment based on the
full picture of the incident. Having reviewed the cases cited by the parties
regarding scope of employment, the Court finds that in assessing whether a law
enforcement officer (or similar public employee, e.g., fireman) is acting
within the scope of his employment at the time of a particular incident, courts
assess the following factors to determine the presence or absence of a causal
nexus: the use of police authority, performance of police actions, engagement
in duties typical of a police officer that further the interests of the police
department, the utilization of resources provided by the employer, and self-identification
and issuance of directives typical of police work. See Mary M. v. City of
Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202, 285 (the offense was carried out within a
series of actions that were authorized by the employer, utilizing the authority
the officer possessed due to his employment); M.P. v. City of Sacramento (2009)177
Cal.App.4th 121, 133 (firefighters had no coercive authority over the victim,
did not detain her for any firefighting-related investigation, and were not
engaged in any duties typical of a firefighter); Inouye v. County of Los
Angeles (1994) 30 Cal. App. 4th 278, 281 (officer repeatedly identified
himself as a police officer, drew his firearm, and told plaintiff to freeze; upon
plaintiff making a motion as if reaching for a weapon, the officer shot
plaintiff multiple times); Henriksen v. City of Rialto (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 1612 (Henriksen did not use his police authority, and the act was
not conducted under his employer’s instructions or on its behalf; the only
factor that could have supported vicarious liability was that Henriksen carried
a gun issued by his employer, which he was authorized to carry off-duty for
potential use in emergencies). These elements collectively inform the courts'
decisions regarding the application of vicarious liability based on the
officers' actions within the scope of their employment.
Several of the
aforementioned factors weigh in favor of finding that Defendant Valiente was
acting within the scope of his employment here. 
Valiente, during the incident, explicitly identified himself as a police
officer, stating, “I am a fucking cop.” (Valiente Depo, Compendium Exh. 1 at
94:22-95:3 and 241:19-21; Galvan Dec. ¶ 7; Compendium Exh. 2 at
0:01:24-0:01:26). He also identified himself as a police officer prior to
handcuffing Plaintiff, suggesting he was acting within the perceived scope of
his duties. (Valiente Depo, Compendium Exh. 1 at 139:1-6 and 141:19-22; Galvan
Dec. ¶ 7, 9-11). Valiente restrained Galvan on the ground, preventing him from
leaving before handcuffing him alone, actions typical of law enforcement
detainment. (Valiente Depo, Compendium Exh. 1 at 138:18-19; Galvan Depo,
Compendium Exh. 3 at Galvan Dec. ¶ 8, 10). He applied arrest and control
techniques learned at the Sheriff’s Department, such as placing his knee on
Galvan’s chest, indicating the use of skills and methods taught for law
enforcement purposes (Valiente Depo, Compendium Exh. 1 at 23:19-24:1). 
Moreover, Valiente
confirmed that handcuffing is a police action and that off-duty officers are
permitted to do so in order to ensure safety. He also expressed his belief that
when he handcuffed Plaintiff, Plaintiff had been detained. This demonstrates that
Valiente was engaging in actions within the scope of his duties as a police
officer, specifically in furtherance of Plaintiff's arrest and to ensure
safety, both of which fall within the responsibilities of a peace officer. (Valiente
depo, Compendium exh. 1 at 147:5-148:1; Galvan Dec. ¿
11) 268:13-16;) 
Employer resources were
utilized during the incident as well. After other officers arrived, Valiente
requested and used another sheriff’s handcuffs on Plaintiff (Valiente Depo,
Compendium Exh. 1 at 141:19-25).
In fact, the action of
Valiente is similar to the actions of the officer in Inouye v. County of Los
Angeles, 30 Cal. App. 4th at 280, a case in which the Court of Appeal found
the officer “was indisputably acting in the scope of his employment ... at the
time [the plaintiff] was shot,” and the plaintiff was “entitled to proceed
against the County under the doctrine of respondeat superior.” 
.  In that case, a police
officer finished his shift, returned his County-issued firearm to a weapons
locker under County policy, removed a personally-owned firearm from the weapons
locker and placed it in a holster on his belt. (Id.) The officer
then left work in his pickup truck. (Id.)  The plaintiff
encountered the officer’s truck on a highway, attempted to ram the truck from
behind and run it off the road, then pulled in front of the officer and stopped
abruptly. (Id.)  The plaintiff then walked to the officer’s
truck and started yelling through the officer’s driver’s side window. (Id.) The
officer decided to arrest plaintiff “to determine whether he was under the
influence of alcohol or drugs,” identified himself as a police officer and told
the plaintiff to freeze. (Id.)  The plaintiff smashed the
window. (Id.) The officer again identified himself as a police
officer, drew his firearm, and told plaintiff to freeze.  (Id.) When the plaintiff made a motion
as if reaching for a weapon, the officer shot the plaintiff multiple
times.  (Id.) 
Similar to the officer
in Inouye, Valiente, although off-duty, found himself in a critical
situation involving the safety of himself or his loved ones and consequently
confronted the plaintiff. Here, Valiente identified himself as a police officer
while detaining and restraining Plaintiff, much like the officer in Inouye,
who identified himself as a police officer and was in the process of arresting
the driver to assess for potential substance influence. Both scenarios involve
the officers using commands to restrain plaintiffs that is typical of police
work. Valiente’s physical restraint of the plaintiff echoes Inouye’s command
for the plaintiff to "freeze." Moreover, both officers employed
police-issued equipment during the incidents: Valiente used police-issued
handcuffs, while the officer in Inouye utilized a police-issued firearm.
Under these
circumstances, the Court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, Valiente was
acting outside the scope of his employment.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
Defendant also moves to
dismiss Plaintiff’s claim on the basis that intentional infliction of emotional
distress is barred against a public entity. (Davison ex rel. Sims v. Santa
Barbara High School Dist., 48 F.Supp.2d 1225 (1998)). However, there is an
exception for false arrest or false imprisonment. Under Cal. Gov. Code § 820.4,
public employees are not entitled to immunity from suit for false arrest or
false imprisonment. (Robinson v. Solano County, 218 F.3d 1030, 1038 (9th
Cir. 2000) (citing Cal. Gov't Code § 820.4)). Because Section 820.4 explicitly
states that police officers are not immune from suit for false arrest, the city
and the police department may also be liable under this theory. (Robinson,
218 F.3d at 1038 (finding Solano County could be liable for false arrest under
California law)). Furthermore, because Plaintiff's cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress is derivative of his claim for
false arrest, neither the Defendant officer nor the County are immune from
liability for this claim. (Brown v. County of San Joaquin, No. CIV.
S-04-2008 FCD PAN, 2006 WL 1652407, at *13 (E.D.Cal. June 13, 2006); cf. Harmston
v. City and County of San Francisco, No. C07-01186 SI, 2007 WL 2814596, at
*8 (N.D.Cal. Sept. 25, 2007) (finding the city potentially liable under Cal
Gov't Code § 815.2(a) for an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim
stemming from a claim for which the employee was not immune)). Plaintiff does
not dispute this in the reply.
Conclusion
Defendant’s MSJ/MSA is
DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 