  Case Number:  21STCV33776    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO REOPEN EXPERT DISCOVERY
Hearing Date: 9/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV33776 KEYLA LOPEZ vs
Costco Wholesale Corporation, A Corporation et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Arctic Air
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR ARGUMENT
 
Background
On September 13, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present slip and fall case. Based on expert designation
demands, Plaintiff’s expert designation was due to Defendant Arctic on June 28,
2024.  Defendant Arctic twice rejected
Plaintiff’s proposed stipulation to extend the designation date.  Plaintiff did not provide Arctic with an
expert designation by June 28, 2024. On August 12, 2024, the Court heard and
granted the motion to continue the trial, moving the trial date to October 18,
2024. On August 16, 2024, the Court clarified that fact discovery was re-opened
and that to the extent Plaintiff wanted expert discovery re-opened, she would
have to file a motion for that purpose.  On
August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to reopen expert discovery.[1]  
Discussion
Pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2024.050(b), in exercising its discretion to
grant or deny this motion, the Court shall take into consideration any matter
relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. (2) The diligence or lack
of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier. (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party. (4) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.
Plaintiff alleges that
the following discovery activities are underway since the motion to continue:

Notice
     and Document Request: Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition for
     Defendant Arctic's Person(s) Most Knowledgeable and a Request for
     Production of Documents. The deposition is scheduled for September 11,
     2024.
Written
     Discovery: Plaintiff served written discovery, including Form
     Interrogatories and Requests for Admission, to Defendant Arctic, but
     responses are still pending.
Supplemental
     Discovery: Plaintiff also served supplemental discovery on Defendant
     Costco, with responses still pending.
Medical
     Evaluation: Plaintiff underwent an orthopedic evaluation on August 21,
     2024, which may lead to updated treatment recommendations. Plaintiff is
     also planning to consult with a foot and ankle specialist for ongoing
     pain.
Arctic's
     Written Discovery: Defendant Arctic has served written discovery on
     Defendant Costco, and responses are also pending.
Second
     Deposition: Plaintiff has expressed willingness to attend a second
     deposition to address additional medical treatment and her current health
     status.

Plaintiff contends that these activities necessitate
the re-opening of expert discovery.  The
Court will hear argument on that issue.

 


