 Case Number:  23STCP01361    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  85 
Mohammad Honarkar v. MOM
AS Investco, LLC, et al., 23STCP01361
 
Tentative decision on petition
for writ of mandate:  granted



 
 
 
            Petitioners
Mohammad Honarkar (“Honarkar”) and 4G Wireless, Inc. (“4G”), individually and
as a member of Respondents MOM AS Investco, LLC (“MOM AS”), MOM BS Investco
(“MOM BS”), LLC, and MOM CA Investco, LLC (“MOM CA”) (collectively, “MOMs”),
seeks a writ of mandate compelling Respondent MOMs to permit inspection and
copying of materials identified in various requests. 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, the revised opposition, and
reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
            Petitioner
Honarkar commenced this proceeding against Respondent MOMs on April 26, 2023,
alleging a cause of action for traditional mandamus under Corporations Code
sections 17704.10 and 17704.13.  Honarkar
brought the Petition both individually and in his capacity as a member of each
MOM.  The operative pleading is the First
Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on September 26, 2023 which added 4G as a
Petitioner.  The verified FAP alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
            Honarkar
is a member of the MOMs, either directly or through 4G. Before March 2023,
Honarkar sent each MOM’s Managing Member multiple requests for various
corporate and financial records.  He
renewed the requests on March 30, 2023 and asked the MOMs to permit inspection
by April 7, 2023.  The purpose of Honarkar’s
requests were to (1) value Honarkar’s interests in the MOMs, their
subsidiaries, and other owned limited liability companies (“LLCs”), and (2)
determine the extent to which MOMs’ Managing Members and other members committed
waste, failed to maintain books and records, or breached their obligations to
the entities and Honarkar.
            On
March 27, 2023, the MOMs refused to produce any records.  On April 7, 2023, they only agreed to produce
the MOM’s tax returns and refused to produce any financial statements or any
documents related to their debts and liabilities.  The MOMs alleged that Honarkar had not stated
a proper purpose for his requests.
            Petitioners
seek an order compelling Respondents to permit inspection and copying of the
materials requested and awarding Honarkar attorney’s fees and costs.
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
            On April 27, 2023,
Honarkar served Respondent MOMs with the Petition and Summons.
            On June 6, 2023,
Respondent MOMs filed a joint Answer.
            On September 19, 2023,
the court granted Honarkar’s motion to add 4G a Petitioner through the FAP.  Because the MOMs already had filed their
opposition, the court allowed the MOMs to file an amended opposition.
            On October 10, 2023, the
MOMs filed a joint Answer to the FAP.
 
            B.
Standard of Review
            A
party may seek to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for either a writ
of administrative mandamus (CCP §1094.5) or of traditional mandamus.  CCP §1085.   

            “A
writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of an act which the
law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station,
or to compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or
office to which the party is entitled, and from which the party is unlawfully
precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.”  CCP §1085(a).
            A
traditional writ of mandate under CCP section 1085 is the method of compelling
the performance of a legal, ministerial duty. 
Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84.  Generally,
mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate alternative
remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the petitioner has a
clear and beneficial right to performance. 
Id. at 584 (internal citations omitted).  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial duty
for which mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a
discretionary function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Public Health, (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701.
            No
administrative record is required for traditional mandamus to compel
performance of a ministerial duty or as an abuse of discretion. 
 
            C.
Governing Law  
            1.
Delaware Corporations Code
            Each member of a LLC, in
person or by attorney or other agent, has the right, subject to such reasonable
standards set in the LLC’s agreement or otherwise set by its manager or members
to obtain from time to time upon reasonable demand for any purpose reasonably
related to the member’s interest as a member of the LLC:
 
(1) True and full information regarding the status of the business
and financial condition of the LLC;
(2) Promptly after becoming available, a copy
of the LLC’s federal, state and local income tax returns for each year;
(3) A current list of the name and last known
business, residence or mailing address of each member and manager;
(4) A copy of any written LLC agreement and certificate
of formation and all amendments thereto, together with executed copies of any
written powers of attorney pursuant to which the LLC agreement and any
certificate and all amendments thereto have been executed;
(5) True and full information regarding the
amount of cash and a description and statement of the agreed value of any other
property or services contributed by each member and which each member has
agreed to contribute in the future, and the date on which each became a member;
and
(6) Other information regarding the affairs
of the LLC as is just and reasonable.  6
Del. Code §18-305(a).
 
            Each manager shall have
the right to examine all this information for a purpose reasonably related to
the position of manager.  6 Del. Code
§18-305(b).  The manager shall have the
right to keep confidential from the members, for such period of time as the
manager deems reasonable, any information which the manager reasonably believes
to be in the nature of trade secrets or other information the disclosure of
which the manager in good faith believes is not in the best interest of the
LLC, could damage it, or is required by law or by agreement with a third party
to keep confidential.  6 Del. Code
§18-305(c).
            An LLC may maintain its
books, records and other documents in other than paper form if such form is
capable of conversion into paper form within a reasonable time.  6 Del. Code §18-305(d).  
            If a member is entitled
to obtain this information for a purpose reasonably related to the member’s
interest as a member or other stated purpose, the member’s right shall be to
obtain such information as is necessary and essential to achieving that
purpose.  6 Del. Code §18-305(g).  These rights can be expanded or restricted in
an LLC agreement or in any subsequent amendment approved or adopted by all of
the members or in compliance with any applicable requirements in the LLC
agreement.  Id.  This ability to expand or restrict such
rights does not expand or restrict the rights of a member or manager by any
other means under the law.  Id.
            In a derivative action, the
plaintiff must be a member or an assignee of an LLC at the time of bringing the
action and either at the time of the transaction at issue or from such a member
via operation of law or pursuant to the terms of an LLC agreement.  6 Del. Code §18-1002.
 
            D.
Statement of Facts[1]
            1.
Honarkar’s Evidence[2]
            a.
The Agreement
            Honarker
is a real estate developer.  Honarker
Decl., ¶2.  Before the business
relationships at issue here, Honarkar held real estate in Southern California
through various LLCs he wholly owned and controlled.  Honarkar Decl., ¶3.  In the Spring 2021, Honarker faced a cash
crunch and sought an infusion of capital into his real estate portfolio.  Honarkar Decl., ¶4.  Nano Banc introduced Honarkar to Mahender
Makhijani (“Makhijani”).  Honarkar Decl.,
¶4.  Honarker believes that Makhijani is
a large shareholder of Nano Banc through his company, Continuum Analytics
(“Continuum”).  Honarker Decl., ¶4.
            Honarkar
and Makhijani agreed to form a new business venture with multiple LLCs.  Honarkar Decl., ¶5.  Makhijani would contribute investment capital
of at least $30 million and Honarkar would contribute his ownership interest in
the entities holding title to his real estate assets.  Honarkar Decl., ¶5.  The new LLCs would be the holding companies
for those properties.  Honarkar Decl.,
¶5.  The parties agreed that Makhijani’s $30
million capital contribution would be used to pay Honarkar’s ex-wife and to refinance
the existing debt on the properties. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶5.  
            On
June 8, 2021, Makhjani and Honarkar finalized the terms of the
transaction.  Honarkar Decl., ¶6.  When Makhijani could not secure sufficient
financing to pay off the debt on Honarkar’s properties, Makhijani proposed that
his $30 million capital contribution to the new LLCs would make up the
difference and allow refinancing of the properties.  Honarkar Decl., ¶6.  His company, Continuum, wired the $30 million
in two separate wire deposits to the escrow agent Chicago Title Company.  Honarkar Decl., ¶6, Ex. 1.  Continuum received $3,996,395.05 out of the
escrow account, listed on the closing statement as “Remainder of Deposit to
Continuum Analytics.”  Honarkar Decl.,
¶6, Ex. 1.  
 
            b.
The MOMs Operating Agreements
            Also
on June 8, 2021, Makhjani and Honarkar formed the MOMs via three substantially
similar Operating Agreements.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7, Exs. 2-4.  Each Operating
Agreement identified a “Manager LLC” as that MOM’s Managing Member, an Investor
Group LLC as a member (“MOM Member”), and Honarkar as the “MO Member” and Administrative
Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7, Exs.
2-4.  The recitals identified Continuum
as a Managing Member affiliate and 4G as a Honarkar affiliate.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7, Exs. 2-4.  
            The
MOM Member was admitted as a member with membership interest based on the Participation
Percentages and Capital Percentages set forth in each Operating Agreement.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7, Ex. 2.  Concurrently with the execution of the
agreement, the MOM Member was required to make a $30 million Contribution to
that MOM for different projects.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(a), Ex. 2, §6.1(c).  A “Contribution”
was defined as money, property, promissory note, or promise to render services
that a member contributes to the MOM as capital in its capacity as a
member.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(a), Ex. 2,
§1.19.  Loans by a member did not qualify
as a Contribution or entitle the creditor member to a larger share of the
profits.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(a), Ex. 2,
§6.5.
            In
exchange for his membership, Honarkar as the MO Member would make a
Contribution of the membership interests in the Subsidiaries and Projects
identified in each Operating Agreement.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §6.1(a).  The participation
percentages of the MOM Member and MO Member (Honarkar) were 50% each for any
Projects, but the MO Member held 100% of Participation Percentage for any of
the Subsidiaries.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(c),
Ex. 2, Ex. A.  
            A
“Project” was defined to be the “Hotel Laguna Project,” which included any real
property owned by Hotel Laguna, LLC (“Hotel Laguna”), and Cliff Village LLC,
and any other owned LLC which becomes a project.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §§ 1.27, 1.45.  The “Subsidiaries” were defined as the LLC’s
contributed to the MOMs by Honarker.   Honarker
Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §1.48.  The
Operating Agreements provided a mechanism by which a Subsidiary or Other Owned
LLC could become a Project.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §1.45.  
Honarkar was required to provide the MOM Member a list of
all information as to potential projects, including the Subsidiaries so defined
in the Operating Agreement.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §6.1(d).  The MOM
Member had 30 days to review those materials and provide written notice as to
which potential projects it wanted to convert to Projects via a Contribution.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §6.1(d).  The MOM Member would then make the
Contribution per the timeline and budget it established with Honarkar.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §6.1(d).  The list of Other Owned LLCs included
4G.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, Ex. C.
            Each
MOM had one or more managers, with one manager designated a Managing
Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2,
§9.1(a).  The Managing Member would serve
as Managing Manager until and unless it resigned, in which case the MOM Member would
designate a replacement Managing Manager. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.1(a). 
            The
Managing Member was responsible for the management of the MOM’s business and
had all rights and powers generally conferred by law or necessary, advisable,
or consistent in connection therewith.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.1(a).  It also
had the duty to keep separate, full, and accurate books and records of each
MOM.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §12.1.  These books needed to include all the
Contributions and all the income, expenses, and transactions of the MOM, as
well as the names and addresses of members in alphabetical order.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §12.1.  Both the Administrative Manager and any
member could inspect these books and records at will.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §12.1.
            At
the MOM’s sole cost and expense, the Managing Member was required to deliver to
each member (i) a monthly balance sheet, with a profit and loss statement, for
each of the first eleven months of the fiscal year; and (ii) a balance sheet
with a profit and loss statement for the full fiscal year at the end thereof.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(e), Ex. 2, §12.2(a).  The Managing Member also would have an independent
certified accountant review or prepare all necessary tax returns, which the Managing
Member would provide to the members.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(e), Ex. 2, §12.2(b).  
            Honarkar
would be the Administrative Manager until and unless he resigned, or the Managing
Member replaced or removed him.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.1(a).  The MOM
could designate another member as an Administrative Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.1(a).  
            The
Administrative Manager only would have the duties regarding day-to-day
operations of the MOM that the Managing Member delegated to him in
writing.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2,
§9.2.  For any Project, the Administrative
Manager would prepare an initial business plan with detailed timelines,
budgets, pro-formas, execution strategies, and proposed vendors.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.10(a).  The Managing Member in its sole discretion
could amend or reject such a plan.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶7(d), Ex. 2, §9.10(a).  
            No
MOM member could voluntarily or involuntarily transfer any of its membership
interest without the Managing Member’s consent and Honarkar’s prior written
consent.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7, Ex. 2, §10.1(a).
            The
Operating Agreements were to be governed by and construed in accordance with
Delaware law without regard to conflict of law principles.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7, Ex. 2, §19.1.
 
            c.
Makhjani’s Misconduct
            On
January 20, 2022, Nano Banc received a Cease-and-Desist Order from the Federal
Reserve Bank (“CDO”).  RJN Ex. 20.  The CDO required Nano Banc to retain an
independent third party within ten days to report all unsecured loans made to
insiders.  RJN Ex. 20.  After the third party released its report, Nano
Banc would have 30 days to submit a written plan to remediate any such insider transaction.  RJN Ex. 20. 

            In
the Spring 2022, Makhijani requested changes to the MOMs’ Operating Agreements.  Honarkar Decl., ¶8.  This led Honarkar to investigate the record
title of the Laguna Hotel and the Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs under the Operating
Agreements.  Honarkar Decl., ¶8.  He discovered that Makhijani never made the
$30 million Contribution that he was required to make.  Honarkar Decl., ¶8.  Instead, Makhijani caused the MOMs borrow $20
million from Nano Banc.  Maralan Decl., ¶2,
Ex. 16.   He took those loan proceeds for himself and
deposited them into the MOMs as his Contribution.  Honarkar Decl., ¶8.  He secured the Nano Banc loan through Deeds
of Trust (“DOT”) to properties that Honarkar owned and later contributed to the
MOMs.  Honarkar Decl., ¶8; Maralan Decl.,
Exs. 17-19.  Those DOTs were signed in
June 2021 but not recorded until March 2022 until the CDO compelled Nano Banc
to identify unsecured loans to insiders. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶8; Maralan Decl., Exs. 17-19.  
            Makhijani/Continuum
took out other loans secured by DOTs on other properties owned by the Subsidiaries
and Other Owned LLCs without Honarkar’s knowledge or consent.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9.  The loans include the following.
            On
June 8, 2021, Makhijani signed a DOT for various properties, including a
Koreatown property Honarkar owned.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(a); RJN Ex. 21.  The DOT secured a $175 million loan from
Coastline Loans, LLC (“Coastline”) and was recorded on June 23, 2021.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(a); RJN Ex. 21.  
            On
July 1, 2021, Makhijani signed a DOT for various properties owned by an Other
Owned LLC, Tesoro Redlands, LLC (“Tesoro”). 
Honarkar Decl., ¶9(b); RJN Ex. 22. 
Nano Banc used this DOT to secure a $1 million loan.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(b); RJN Ex. 22.  Nano Banc did not record the Tesoro DOT until
March 3, 2022.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(b);
RJN Ex. 22.  
            On
February 11, 2022, an $18.75 million DOT was signed for property owned by Laguna
HI, LLC (“HI”) to secure a loan from Cantor Group IV LLC (“Cantor IV”). 
Honarkar Decl., ¶9(c); RJN Ex. 23. 
The DOT was recorded on March 24, 2022. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶9(c); RJN Ex. 23. 

            In
May 2022, a DOT was recorded against property owned by Laguna HW, LLC (“HW”).  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(d); RJN Ex. 24.  This DOT secured a $10 million loan from
Cantor Group V LLC (“Cantor V”), which Makhijani owns.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(d); RJN Ex. 24.  
            In
November 2022, Cantor IV received a $16.5 million DOT against properties owned
by the Laguna Arts District Complex, LLC (“LAD”) to secure another loan.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(e); RJN Ex. 25.  The LAD DOT was recorded on January 10,
2023.  Honarkar Decl., ¶9(e); RJN Ex. 25.  
            Honarkar
does not know if the MOMs received any proceeds from the loans secured by the
Coastline, Tesoro, HI, HW, and LAD DOTs. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶9; See RJN Exs. 21-25.  He never received proceeds from the loans per
the distribution waterfall in the Operating Agreements.  Honarkar Decl., ¶12.  Because Makhijani and Continuum never
provided the required monthly MOMs financial and transaction reports, Honarkar
does not know if the loans were even necessary. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶12.  
 
            d.
Demands for Inspection
            On
February 20, 2023, Honarkar asked Makhijani for an explanation of the DOTs recorded
in favor of Nano Banc, Cantor IV, and Cantor V.   Honarkar Decl., ¶13, Ex. 7.  Makhijani did not respond.  Honarkar Decl., ¶14.  
            On
March 22, 2023, Honarkar served each MOM with a request for inspection of
financial statements, tax documents, information about entity members, business
plans, ledgers, information about assets, loan agreements, vendor information,
bank accounts, and other information about payments and reimbursements.  Honarkar Decl., ¶14, Exs. 8-10.  This included (1) a current list of the full
name and address of every member or person authorized to act on behalf of the
MOMs, Subsidiaries, and Other Owned LLCs; (2) the full name and business or
residence address of the Managing Manager; (3) the Certificate of Formation and
charter documents of each of the Owned Companies and any and all amendments
thereto; (4) federal, state, and local tax or information and reports of the
MOMs and Owned Companies for the last two taxable years; (5) complete financial
statements of the MOMs and Owned Companies for each month since June 2021; (6) complete
financial statements of the MOMs and Owned Companies for each fiscal year since
the start date; (7) their books and records as they relate to the internal
affairs of the Company from the start date; (8) 
their general ledgers from the start date; (9) their business plans,
budgets, and ARGUS files from the start date; (10) estimates or projections of their
past, present or future performance and value and any documents related
thereto; (11) all materials concerning their content and value from the start
date; (12) all
materials identifying and reflecting the value of their assets from the start
date; (13) all materials concerning their debts or liabilities; (14) all
materials reflecting, substantiating, calculating, describing, or constituting
payments, fees, or benefits provided or paid to the Manager or its affiliates;
(15) any such materials for reimbursements or advances the Manager or its
affiliates requested or that the MOMs and Owned Companies paid; (16) all
materials setting forth the budgeting, forecasts, strategy, business plans,
inventory planning, and cash management for the MOMs and Owned Companies; (17)
materials that identify any vendors that MOMs and Owned Companies have paid
over $5,000 from the start date for goods and services; (18) all materials
related to outside funding for MOMs and Owned Companies and attempts to explore
such funding opportunities; (19) any materials reflecting sums received from MOMs
and Owned Companies to the Manager or a MOM member; and (20) materials,
including month-end statements, for any bank account associated with MOMs and
Owned Companies.  Honarkar Decl., ¶14,
Exs. 8-10.  
            Honarkar
made this request both as a member and as an Administrative Manager of each MOM.  Honarkar Decl., ¶15, Exs. 8-10.  His stated purpose was to value his interest
in the MOMs, determine if any other members or any Managers breached their duties,
and identify any waste, wrongdoing, self-dealing, commingling, and other
improper conduct with respect to the MOMs. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶15, Exs. 8-10.  He
also wanted to determine whether and to what extent the Managers failed to
maintain the books and records.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶15, Exs. 8-10.  
            In
addition to a general refusal on March 27, the Managing Members responded that
Honarkar’s counsel could not represent him because of a conflict of
interest.  Honarkar Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.  Honarkar believed this to be false, but he
retained new counsel to avoid delay and renewed his demands in a letter dated
March 30, 2023.  Honarkar Decl., ¶16, Ex.
11.  His new request stated that there is
no reasonable dispute that he has a right to inspect the records “as a Member
in each of the MOM LLCs.”  Honarkar Decl.,
¶16, Ex. 11.
            On
April 7, 2023, MOMs responded that Honarkar should have the very financial documents
he seeks.  Honarker Decl., ¶17, Ex.
2.  He also has made incredibly  broad demands and failed to identify a
legitimate reason for them.  Honarker
Decl., ¶17, Ex. 2.  Nonetheless, the MOMs
would provide certain documents at a mutually agreeable date and time.  Honarkar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 12.  This included the MOMs’ own tax returns and
general ledgers, although Honarkar had interfered with the preparation of some
returns through demands for unreasonable valuations.  Honarkar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 12.  Honarkar should already have tax returns for
any Owned Entities as the prior Administrative Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 12.  He had also refused to provide the general
ledgers for the Owned Entities.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶17, Ex. 12.  MOMs refused to produce
the financial statements of the MOMs and documents related to their debts and
liabilities because Honarkar had not stated a proper purpose.  Honarkar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 12.
            Since
then, the MOMs have produced some documents. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶19.  Most are
annual tax returns of Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs but not of the MOMs
themselves.  Honarkar Decl., ¶19; Ybarra
Decl., ¶5.  The MOMs have failed to produce
financial statements for either the MOMs or the Owned LLCs.  Honarkar Decl., ¶19; Ybarra Decl., ¶5.  The MOMs also did not produce the documents
related to the Nano Banc Loan.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶19; Ybarra Decl., ¶5.  
            On
March 29, 2023, the MOMs removed Honarkar as their Administrative Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶20.  Makhijani have since also forcibly taken over
the offices and management of several properties, excluded Honarkar in participation
thereof, and refused to provide any income or accounting of income from MOMs.  Honarkar Decl., ¶20.  
 
            e.
4 G’s Membership 
            On
April 26, 2023, individually and as a member of the MOMs, Honarkar filed the
Petition underlying this action to compel production of the requested
documents.  Honarkar Decl., ¶18, Ex. 13.  On June 6, 2023, the MOMs filed an Answer
admitting that Honarkar is a member of the MOMs and their former Administrative
Manager.  Honarkar Decl., ¶21, Ex. 14.
            During
Honarkar’s document review for other litigation, he discovered a July 14, 2022
Letter Agreement amending the Operating Agreements for each MOM so that 4G, a
company wholly owned by Honarkar, would be the member instead of Honarkar as an
individual.  Honarkar Decl., ¶22, Ex. 15.  Section 4 of this Letter Agreement still
holds Honarkar liable for all obligations of a member under the Operating
Agreement.  Honarkar Decl., ¶22, Ex.
15.  
 
            2.
The MOMs’ Evidence
            a.
Background
            When
Honarkar approached Makhijani in 2021, Makhijani reviewed the financial records
for Honarkar’s properties.  Makhijani
Decl., ¶4.  Because the foreclosure date
was June 15, 2021, he knew Honarkar needed capital soon.  Makhijani Decl., ¶4.  After heavy negotiations, Makhijani agreed to
invest tens of millions of dollars and arrange for hundreds of millions of
dollars of financing to avoid the foreclosure of over 20 entities and
properties.  Makhijani Decl., ¶5.  
            The
parties established the MOMs to hold and operate Honarkar’s businesses and
projects and their accompanying assets. 
Makhijani Decl., ¶5.  Per the
Operating Agreements and an Asset Contribution Agreement, Honarkar was
obligated to contribute these businesses and assets to the MOMs.  Makhijani Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. 1.  4G was among the contributed entities.  Kluchin Decl., ¶6.
            Honarkar
and 4G entered a Release
Agreement discharging Continuum, Makhijani, and the MOMs for any claims based
on a tort or breach of contractual or other duty.  Makhijani Decl., ¶8, Ex. 2.  
The MOMs Operating Agreements delegated overriding management
rights to the Managing Members.  Kluchin
Decl., ¶10.  The Managing Members have
always maintained overriding managerial control over the operations of the
entities contributed to the MOMs.  Kluchin
Decl., ¶10.  
Under the Operating Agreements, Honarkar was originally the
MOMs’ Administrative Manager.  Kluchin
Decl., ¶9.  In that capacity, his role in
management of those entities was limited to the duties that the Managing
Managers defined for him.  Kluchin Decl.,
¶9.  
 
            b.
The $30 Million Contribution
            MOM
CA Member agreed to make the $30 million Contribution required under the
Operating Agreement.  Makhijani Decl.,
¶9.  The MOM Members funded this $20
million Contribution through the Nano Banc loan.  Makhijani Decl., ¶10, Ex. 3.  The Nano Banc loan funded on June 7, 2021 and
was paid directly into escrow to pay Honarkar’s secured lender.  Makhijani Decl., ¶10, Ex. 3.  Makhijani’s investor group only secured the
funding from Nano Banc by signing personal guarantees to Nano Banc.  Makhijani Decl., ¶12, Ex. 5.
            The
Nano Banc loan was nominally taken out in the MOMs name so that it could be
secured by the properties owned by Honarkar’s contributed entities.  Makhijani Decl., ¶11.  On June 7, 2021, the MOMs and MOM Members
entered into a Contribution Agreement. 
Makhijani Decl., ¶11, Ex. 4.  It
required the MOM Members to pay the amounts due under the Nano Banc loan so that
the MOMs and Honarkar would never have to pay them.  Makhijani Decl., ¶11, Ex. 4.  Deba Shyam (“Shyam”), Banayotis Haddad (“Haddad”),
and Jason Miller (“Miller”) signed on behalf of both the MOMs and MOM
Members.  Makhijani Decl., ¶11, Ex.
4.  The MOM Members have complied with
the Contribution Agreement, and the MOMs have never used joint venture funds to
repay the Nano Banc loan.  Makhijani
Decl., ¶11.
            Counsel
for MOMs regularly communicated with Honarkar regarding his requests for the Managing
Member’s approval of certain expenditures, such as payment for payroll and
business expenses.  Kluchin Decl., ¶10,
Ex. 2.  Honarkar would send emails to
request payment authorization, which MOMs’ counsel would review and authorize
if appropriate.  Kluchin Decl., ¶10, Ex.
2.  
            The
MOMs also would email Honarkar’s controller as to any company expenditures of
at least $101 million for business operations. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶11, Exs. 3-4.  On
December 6, 2021, counsel for MOMs emailed Honarkar a list of loans that the MOMs
had obtained secured by assets they owned. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶12, Ex. 5.
            The
MOMs maintain books, records, files, accounting ledgers, leases, emails, and
other documents relating to the business. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶4.
            The
parties entered into the July 14, 2022 Letter Agreement because Honarkar asked the
MOMs to replace him with 4G as a MOMs member for unspecified tax reasons.  Kluchin Decl., ¶7, Ex. 1.  His counsel said this had no bearing on the
structure of the Operating Agreements. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶7, Ex. 1.  When the
MOMs’ counsel objected that this change may contradict the Operating Agreements
and Contribution Agreement, Honarkar’s counsel assured him this Letter
Agreement would have “zero impact on anything.” 
Kluchin Decl., ¶7, Ex. 1.  
 
            b.
Honarkar’s Removal as Administrative Manager
            Immediately
after the MOMs’ formation, Honarkar began making constant requests for cash to
pay venture and personal expenses. 
Makhijani Decl., ¶15.  Makhijani
explained that Honarkar could not treat the MOMs’ assets as his personal funds;
any withdrawal would have to be either a loan or a capital infusion.  Makhijani Decl., ¶15.  Honarkar acknowledged this insofar as he said
in an email that the investment was “fully secured.”  Makhijani Decl., ¶15, Ex. 6.  
            On
September 8, 2022, Honarkar sent an email with an attached spreadsheet
acknowledging he had received over $94 million in cash advances over the previous
18 months.  Makhijani Decl., ¶16, Ex. 7.
            Honarkar
demanded an increase in his capital accounts with the MOMs from the $50 million in the
Operating Agreements to $150 million.  Makhijani
Decl., ¶17.  When Makhijani refused, Honarkar
tried to use DOTs for MOM properties about which he claimed ignorance to falsely
accuse the MOM Members of a campaign designed to force his exit.  Makhijani Decl., ¶17.  
            From
January 4-6, 2023, Honarkar objected to the MOMs’ assessment of the fair market
value of their properties.  Kluchin
Decl.,
¶44, Ex. 20.  He wanted to use grossly
inflated fair market values to reduce his potential tax burden, but the MOMs
refused.  Kluchin Decl.,
¶44, Ex. 20.  The MOMs therefore could
not file all 2021 tax returns.  Kluchin
Decl.,
¶44.
            The
MOMs discovered that Honarkar engaged in self-dealing, including the diversion
of corporate assets to himself and third parties for his personal benefit.  Kluchin Decl., ¶14.  MOMs therefore issued Honarkar notices of
default on March 28, 2023 (Kluchin Decl., ¶14, Ex. 7) and notice of
his dismissal as Administrative Manager effective March 29, 2023.  Kluchin Decl., ¶14, Ex. 6.
 
            c.
Inspection Demands
            On
March 27, 2023, the MOMs sent a consolidated response to Honarkar’s inspection
demands.  Hsu Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  They asserted that his five-day deadline to
respond to such a broad request was unreasonable.  Hsu Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  The Operating Agreements for each MOM also
limit the scope of documents that a member can request.  Hsu Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  Most of the requested documents should
already be in Honarkar’s control because he “has and presently remains” the
MOMs’ Administrative Manager.  Hsu Decl.,
¶2, Ex. 1.  Nevertheless, the MOMs agreed
to permit the inspection of certain records at a “mutually agreeable date and
time” after Honarkar retained counsel free of a conflict of interest.  Hsu Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  
            On
April 7, 2023, the MOMs reiterated that, while Honarkar should have the
requested documents and has failed to identify a legitimate reason, they would
provide certain documents at a mutually agreeable date and time.  Hsu Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.  They listed the Manager LLCs as the MOMs’
Managing Members.  Hsu Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.
            MOMs
provided almost 2,000 pages of documents to Honarkar on June 7 and 13,
2023.  Hsu Decl., ¶4.  This production included a list of Managing Members
and addresses, identification of members, 2021 tax returns for the Other
Owned LLCs, formation documents for the MOMs and Other Owned LLCs, loan
documents for the Other Owned LLCs, and DOTs. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶47.  Honarkar
never attempted to meet and confer as to the sufficiency of this
production.  Hsu Decl., ¶4.  4G never issued an inspection demand to the
MOMs.  Kluchin Decl., ¶48.
 
            d.
Additional Honarkar Misconduct
            In
May 2023, Honarkar’s son-in-law, Eric Bostwick (“Bostwick”), posted a Zillow
advertisement listing himself as the property owner of Laguna Beach Company, a
CA contributed entity.  Kluchin
Decl., ¶30, Ex. 11.  Honarkar and
Bostwick were never authorized to upload this advertisement.  Kluchin Decl., ¶30.  
            On
May 2, 2023, staff at Hotel Laguna and 14 West both reported that Honarkar and
his agents had stormed the hotels. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶16.  When Kluchin
visited 14 West, he watched video footage showing that they took keycard devices,
security cameras, hundreds of dollars, and an employee laptop.  Kluchin Decl., ¶17.  They also shut off the security cameras and
covered them with tape.   Kluchin Decl.,
¶17.  Kluchin saw locksmiths hired by
Honarkar change the locks on 144 West’s doors. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶17.  
            Honarkar’s
agents and armed guards also physically blocked access to Hotel Laguna.  Kluchin Decl., ¶18.  Kluchin was denied access from the front,
walked through a patio door, and then was accosted by Honarkar and his
guards.  Kluchin Decl., ¶19.  Honarkar knocked Kluchin to the ground and
injured his legs.  Kluchin Decl.,
¶20.  Kluchin saw one internal office’s
glass door shattered.   Kluchin Decl.,
¶21.  Honarkar and his agents told Hotel
Laguna staff to go home.  Kluchin Decl.,
¶22.  They posted signs saying the hotel
was closed.  Kluchin Decl., ¶22.  A guard confirmed Honarkar told the guards to
shut down the business, block the doors, and not let anyone in or out.  Kluchin Decl., ¶22.
            Honarkar
has managed and maintained lawsuits in the MOMs names without authorization
to do so after his removal as Administrative Manager.  Kluchin Decl., ¶31.  Despite requests that he no longer hold
himself out as the MOMs’ rightful manager and authorized agent, he continues to
do so.  Kluchin Decl., ¶42.
 
            e.
Other Lawsuits
            Two
related actions, MOM CA Investco LLC, et al. v. Mohammad Honarkar, et al.,
(“Laguna Case”) Case No. 30-2023-01322886-CU-OR_CJC and Mohammad
Honarkar, et al. v. Mahender Makhijani, et al., (“Honarkar v. Makhijani”)
Case No. 30-2023-01323759 are pending in Orange County (collectively, the
“Related Actions”).  Hsu Decl., ¶5, Ex.
3.  In the Laguna Case, MOM CA sought
emergency injunctive relief to block Honarkar from interfering with business
operations.  Kluchin Decl., ¶23.  Honarkar v. Makhijani accuses
Makhijani and the MOMs of the same misconduct alleged by Honarkar
in this action.  Hsu
Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  
            On
May 5, 2023, the court in the Related Actions entered a TRO restraining
Honarkar from coming within 200 feet of businesses that MOM CA Member owns.  Hsu Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.  On June 5, 2023, the court issued a
preliminary injunction to the same effect. 
Hsu Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.
            In the Related Actions, Honarkar has
propounded requests for production (“RFP”) of documents relating to any capital
contribution of Makhijani's group of investors (RFP Nos. 1-6, 35-41);
Honarkar’s removal as Administrative Manager (RFP Nos. 23-32, 42); the current
list of the full name and last known address or residence of each member and
all persons who can act on behalf of the MOMs (RFP No. 84); complete MOMs
financial statements, including balance sheets, income statements, cash flow
statements, and footnotes (RFP No. 85); the MOMs’ general ledger from June 8,
2021 through the present (RFP No. 86); any loan agreements, notes, mortgages,
security agreements, credit agreements, guarantees, and UCC statements
concerning the MOMs’ debts or liabilities from June 8, 2021 through present
(RFP No. 87); cash flow, payments, reimbursements, or advances between the MOMs
and any member or manager (RFP Nos. 89-96); good or services any manufacturers,
suppliers, contractors, or distributors offered to MOMs from June 8, 2021
through present (RFP No. 97); outside financing (RFP No. 98); bank accounts
(RFP No. 101); federal, state, and local income tax or information and reports
(RFP No. 102); various sale of tenant-in-common interests in real property that
MOMs owned or controlled (RFP Nos. 103-108); and transfers of interest in any
real property (RFP Nos. 109-110).  Hsu
Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.
            The MOMs have produced thousands of
pages responsive to the RFPs, many of which were duplicative of the pages
produced in response to Honarker’s inspection demands.  Hsu Decl., ¶9.  These requests are so similar that Honarkar’s
counsel even asked MOMs to verify whether one set of production was for the Laguna
Case because the case file was “convoluted.”  Hsu Decl., ¶9, Ex. 7.  MOMs clarified that the production was in
response to Honarkar’s inspection demands to the MOM entities.  Hsu Decl., ¶9, Ex. 7.
            The
court in the Related Cases has recently ordered arbitration to determine
the arbitrability of certain claims.  Hsu
Decl., ¶5.  If the arbitrator asserts
jurisdiction, Honarkar can still seek discovery.  Hsu Decl., ¶5.  
            On
July 11, 2023, Honarkar filed a declaration in the Related Cases that 4G is a
member of the MOMs under the July 14, 2022 Letter Agreement.  Hsu Decl., ¶10, Ex. 8 (Honarkar Decl., ¶26,
Ex. Q).  The Letter Agreement asserts an
intent for 4G to be a member, not Honarkar as an individual.  Ex. 8, Ex. Q. 

            Honarkar’s
counsel conceded at the trial setting of the instant case that he is not a
member of the MOMs.  Hsu Decl., ¶11.  Honarkar then moved for leave to amend the
Petition to add 4G as a Petitioner, which was granted.  Hsu Decl., ¶12.  
 
            3.
Reply Evidence
            In
a September 27, 2023 attachment to a Demand for Arbitration in the Laguna
Case, the MOMs’ counsel stated that Honarkar became a member pursuant to
the Operating Agreements.  Ybarra Supp. Decl.,
¶3, Ex. 2.  He transferred that membership
interest to 4G in July 2022.  Ybarra Supp.
Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.  
            Respondents’
October 10, 2023 Answer to the FAP in this action states they lack sufficient
knowledge and information to admit or deny whether 4G is a MOMs member.  Ybarra Supp. Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.
 
E. Analysis
Petitioner Honarker seeks to inspect various documents possessed
by the MOMs.  
 
1. The Right to Inspect under Delaware Law
Each MOM Operating Agreement contains a Delaware choice of
law provision.  Honarkar Decl., Exs. 2-4,
§19.1 (“This Agreement shall, in all respects, be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflict
of law principles.”).[3]  
Pursuant to Delaware law, each
member of the LLC has the right to inspect certain records upon reasonable
demand for any purpose reasonably related to the member’s interest in the LLC.  6 Del. C. § 18-305(a). The member may inspect
the following:
(1) True and full information
regarding the status of the business and financial condition of the limited
liability company;
(2) Promptly after becoming
available, a copy of the limited liability company’s federal, state and local
income tax returns for each year;
(3) A current list of the name
and last known business, residence or mailing address of each member and
manager;
(4) A copy of any written
limited liability company agreement and certificate of formation and all
amendments thereto, together with executed copies of any written powers of
attorney pursuant to which the limited liability company agreement and any
certificate and all amendments thereto have been executed;
(5) True and full information
regarding the amount of cash and a description and statement of the agreed
value of any other property or services contributed by each member and which
each member has agreed to contribute in the future, and the date on which each
became a member; and
(6) Other information regarding the affairs of the limited
liability company as is just and reasonable. 
6 Del. C. §18-305(a).
“Each manager” of the LLC has the right to examine this same
information for any purpose reasonably related to their position of
manager.  6 Del. C. §18-305(b).   
The MOMs Operating Agreements also
state: “The Administrative Manager or a Member shall have the right at any time
to inspect the Company’s books and records.” 
Honarkar Decl., Exs. 2-4, §12.1. 
The Operating Agreements require the Managing Manager to prepare and
provide the members with financial statements and balance sheets for the MOMs
on a monthly basis.  Id.
 
2. Standing
Respondent MOMs contend that
both Honarkar and 4G lack standing to bring the FAP.  Delaware law and the Operating Agreements
limit inspection of corporate records to members and Managers of the MOMs.  Honarkar’s Petition is brought "individually
and as a Member of each the defendant entities…"  Honarkar Decl., Ex. 13 (Petition).  However, as Honarkar concedes, he is not a
member of any of the MOMs.  Rather, 4G
is.  See Honarkar Decl, ¶ 22, Ex. 15.  Opp. at 18.[4]  Respondents conclude that Honarkar lacks
standing for this lawsuit because he no longer is a member of the MOMs.  See Weingarten v. Monster
Worldwide, Inc., (2017) 2017 WL 752179 ("the legislature has made
clear that only those who are stockholders at the time of filing have standing
to invoke this Court's assistance….").[5]  Opp. at 18.
Respondents add that, after
they raised this issue of standing, Honarkar shifted gears and now asserts that
he brought the inspection demand on behalf of 4G.  Yet, Honarkar sent the inspection demands,
not 4G.  Although Honarkar argues that
4G's corporate identity should be disregarded because the distinction between himself
and 4G is "one of form over substance", the law recognizes that a
corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity apart from the person(s)
who own it.  See Grosset v.
Wenaas, (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1108; North Valley Mall, LLC
v. Longs Drug Stores Calif., LLC, (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 598,
602.  4G did not serve inspection
demands upon the MOMs and cannot now rely on Honarkar's personal demands to
satisfy standing.  
Moreover, Honarkar does not own 4G.  Honarkar contributed 4G to the MOMs pursuant
to his obligations under the Operating Agreements.  See Honarkar Decl., Exs. 2-4.  Honarkar does not have any ownership and
control over 4G, an issue which is being litigated by the parties in the Related
Actions.[6]  As
Honarkar was removed as Administrative Manager, he does not have the authority
to take any action on behalf of 4G. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 14.    Opp. at 18-19.
Nor can 4G make its inspection
demand through the FAP.  The issuance of
a demand with a five-day cure period is an essential prerequisite to bringing
an action to compel compliance.  Delaware
Code § 18-305(f) (member may bring an action to enforce inspection if the LLC
"does not reply to the demand that has been made within 5 business
days…"  The MOMs have not
failed to reply to any inspection demand by 4G, and 4G has no right to compel
inspection.  Opp. at 19.
Honarkar replies that Respondents
cite no case law that 4G lacks standing simply because Hornarkar make the demands.  Both Honarkar and 4G filed the FAP, it is in
writing, and it sets forth the specific demands for inspection and the purposes
for which they are being made.  Nothing
more is required by Delaware law.  6 Del.
C. § 18-305(e) (“Any demand under this section shall be in writing and shall
state the purpose of such demand.”). 
Reply at 5.
In the court’s view, there is at least a facial issue that 4G
is the rightful member of the MOMs and that Honarkar cannot cause 4G to make
inspection demands because he no longer owns it.  In exchange for his membership, Honarkar agreed
to make a Contribution of the membership interests in both Subsidiaries and
Projects identified in each Operating Agreement.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §6.1(a).   “Subsidiaries” were defined as the LLC’s
contributed by Honarker.   Honarker
Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2, §1.48.  Honarkar was
required to provide the MOM Member a list of all information as to potential
projects, including the Subsidiaries so defined in the Operating
Agreement.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex. 2,
§6.1(d).  The list of Other Owned LLCs
includes 4G.  Honarkar Decl., ¶7(b), Ex.
2, Ex. C.
The court need not resolve this issue, however, because Honarkar
has other bases for his standing to make the inspection demands.  
First, Honarkar made the demands both as a member and
Administrative Manager of the MOMs. 
Honarkar Decl., ¶15, Exs. 8-11.  At
the time the demands were made, Honarkar was the Administrative Manager of the
MOMs.  The Managing Members did not
remove him as Administrative Manager until seven days after the demands were
propounded.  Honarkar Decl., ¶¶ 20-21.  Honarkar contends that Makhijani caused him
to be removed in retaliation for making the demands, but Makhijani’s motive is
irrelevant.  Nothing in the 6 Del. C. section
18-305(b) requires that the demanding party remain a Manager after he or she
makes a demand for inspection; it only required Honarkar to be a Manager when
the demands were made, and he was.  Compare
6 Del. C. § 18-1002 (“In a derivative action, the plaintiff must be a
member or an assignee of a limited liability company interest at the time of
bringing the action and (1) [a]t the time of the transaction of which the
plaintiff complains ….”) (emphasis added). 

Although Honarkar made the demands in his capacity as
Administrative Manager, Respondents argue that the FAP does not plead that he
did so.  The FAP is brought by Honarkar
and 4G "as a Member of each the defendant entities…", not by Honarkar
as the Administrative Manager.  Nor did Honarkar’s
counsel state that his demands were being made as Administrative Manager in the
March 30, 2023 "re-affirmation" of Honarkar's demand.  Honarkar Decl., Ex. 11, p. 1 ("There
is no reasonable dispute that, as a Member in each of the MOM LLCs, Mr. Honarkar
is entitled to inspect the books and records of those entities pursuant to 6
Delaware Code § 18-305"). 
Opp. at 19.
The short answer is that the FAP does plead Honarkar’s
capacity as Administrative Manager.  The
FAP alleges that Honarker and 4G petition for inspection of records in both
their individual and Member capacities, that Hornarker is a Member of the MOMs
directly or indirectly (¶3), and that “at the time these records were
requested, Mr. Honarker was the Administrative Manager of each of the MOM LLCs”
(¶3).  This is a sufficient allegation of
ultimate facts from which it may be inferred that Honarker is seeking records
as former Administrative Manager of the MOMs.
Second, Honarkar has standing because Respondents have
admitted that he is a member of the MOMs. 
In their Verified Answer, Respondents admitted that Honarkar is a member
of each MOM.  Honarkar Decl., Ex. 14, ¶3 (“MOM
Entities admit Honarkar is a member of MOM AS, MOM BS, and MOM CA ….”).  As such, the matter is established as true; Honarkar
is not required to put on any evidence to establish this fact and Respondents
are prohibited from disputing it.  CCP §431.20
(“Every material allegation of the complaint … not controverted by the answer, shall,
for the purposes of the action, be taken as true.”); Hennefer v. Butcher, (1986) 182 Cal. App. 3d 492, 504  (“The effect of this admission was, first, to
relieve the plaintiff buyers from the necessity of offering evidence to support
the allegation … and, second, to preclude the defendant seller from offering
evidence to challenge it.”).
Honarkar has standing to make the FAP’s inspection claims.
 
3. Honarkar Is Not Required to Pursue Discovery in the
Related Actions
Respondents point out that mandamus is not available if
there is an adequate remedy at law.  CCP §1086;
Phelan v. Superior Court, (1950) 35 Cal.2d 363, 366, 372 (appellate
mandate to compel superior court to strike portion of order reducing judgment should
have been made in trial court).  The
burden is on the petitioner to show that he did not have such a remedy.  Id. 
See also Keyston v. Banta-Carbona Irrigation Dist., (1937)
19 Cal.App.2d 384, 386 (petitioners had adequate remedy as the petition "could
as well have been instituted in the first instance" in another action
pending in a different court); Jillson v. Board of Supervisors, (1963)
221 Cal.App.2d 192, 195 (same); W.R. Grace & Co. v. Cal. Emp. Com.,
(1944) 24 Cal.2d 720, 727 (mandamus “denied if a similar application
between the same parties on the same matter is already pending before another
court.").  Opp. at 10.
Respondents contend that Honarkar can obtain the same relief
sought in the FAP through discovery in the Related Cases. Honarkar initiated Honarkar
v. Makhijani in Orange County Superior Court alleging the same conspiracy he
advances here. 
Hsu Decl., Ex. 3, ¶4. 
 Pursuant to CCP § 2031.010, et
seq., Honarkar has propounded document requests upon the MOMs seeking the exact
same information sought in the inspection demands.  Opp. at 10-11.
Specifically, Honarkar has
propounded RFPs in the Related Cases seeking all documents relating to:  (i) any capital contribution of
Makhijani's group of investors (RFP Nos. 1-6, 35-41), (ii) Honarkar's
removal as Administrative Manager (RFP Nos. 23-32, 42), (iii) the "current
list of the full name and last known address or residence of each Member and
all persons who can act on behalf of YOU" (RFP No. 84), (iv) "the
complete financial statements (including, but not limited to, balance sheets,
income statements, cash flow statements, and footnotes) of YOU" (RFP No.
85), (v) "the general ledger of YOU from June 8, 2021 through the present"
(RFP No. 86), (vi) "any loan agreements, notes, mortgages, security
agreements, credit agreements, guarantees, and UCC Statements concerning YOUR
debts and/or liabilities from June 8, 2021 through present" (RFP No. 87),
(vii) cash flow, payments, reimbursements, or advances between the MOM Entity
and any member or manager (RFP Nos. 89-96), (viii) "goods or services
offered to YOU by any manufacturers, suppliers, contractors, or distributors
from June 8, 2021 through present" (RFP No. 97), outside financing (RFP
No. 98), bank accounts (RFP No. 101), "federal, state, and local income
tax or information and reports" 
(RFP No. 102), various "sale of tenant-in-common interests in real
property owned or controlled by YOU" (RFP Nos. 103-108), and "transfers
of interest in any real property." 
(RFP Nos. 109-110).  (Hsu Decl.,
¶ 8, Ex. 6.)  Opp. at 11.[7]
The RFPs propounded
in the Related Cases are so duplicative of the documents sought in the FAP that
Honarkar's own counsel confused the MOMs' production of documents responsive to
his Inspection Demands with a production of documents made in the Related Cases.  Hsu Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 7.  Honarkar's attempt to bury the MOMs in
duplicative, vexatious litigation over the same claims and issues does not
support a writ of mandamus.  He
should not be allowed to use this lawsuit to obtain the extraordinary relief of
mandamus when he is already seeking the same documents in an existing
lawsuit.  Opp. at 11-12.
Although Respondents do not demonstrate it, the court will
assume that Honarkar seeks the identical documents in both this case and the
Related Cases.  There is nothing improper
in doing so.  Respondents cite no
Delaware or California authority that a member or manager seeking discovery from
a LLC in one lawsuit cannot also seek inspection from the LLC in a separate
mandamus case.  The parties entitled to
records in the two types of cases are different: parties (CCP §2017.010) versus
a member or director (6 Del. C. §18-305). 
The standards for production of documents in the two case types are
different:  non-privileged information
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence (CCP §2017.010)
versus purpose reasonably related to the member’s interest in the LLC or the
position of manager (6 Del. C. § 18-305). 
Finally, the procedures to obtain the documents are wholly different.  Compare CCP §2031.010 et seq. and
6 Del. C. § 18-305.
Petitioners properly distinguish (Reply at 6) the cases
cited by Respondents as having nothing to do with mandamus to compel the inspection
of corporate books and records.  Phelan
v. Superior Court, supra, 35 Cal.2d at 366, 372 (appellate
mandate to compel superior court to strike portion of order reducing judgment
should have been made in trial court); Keyston v. Banta-Carbona Irrigation
Dist., supra, 19 Cal. App. 2d at 384 (denying appellate mandamus
seeking to compel an irrigation district to pay out bond proceeds because it was
virtually identical to another lawsuit where superior court could better
determine the conflicting facts); W.R. Grace & Co. v. Cal. Emp’t Comm’n,
supra, 24 Cal. 2d at 724, 727 (employer’s mandamus petition to compel
commission to vacate award of unemployment benefits differed from employer
suits to recover unemployment insurance contributions); Jillson v. Bd. of
Supervisors of Sacramento Cnty., supra, 221 Cal. App. 2d at 194-95
(taxpayer seeking mandamus to reduce property assessment had adequate remedy at
law of paying taxes and filing refund action). 

Respondents would have a better argument if they showed that
they have already produced the same books and records in the Related Cases that
are sought here.  Honarkar should not be entitled
to compel Respondents to produce the same records twice in two different
lawsuits.  Nor should he be able to
compel the MOMs to produce records that he already possesses (unless it serves
the purpose of showing that Respondents also possess the records).  See CM & M Group, Inc. v.
Carroll, (“CM & M Group”) (1982) 453 A.2d 788, 792
(court may deny inspection where shareholder already possesses the information
requested).  Respondents have not shown
that records already produced in the Related Cases are being sought in
this case.  See Hsu Decl., ¶9.  Reply at 6, n. 5.  Respondents cannot compel Honarkar to pursue
discovery in the Related Cases in place of his inspection demands in this case.
 
4. Honarker
Has a Valid Purpose For Inspection 
Delaware law mandates that a member or manager of a limited
liability company may only make inspection demands for a purpose reasonably
related to the member's interest in the company or the manager's position.  "Mere curiosity or desire for a fishing
expedition will not suffice."  Security
First Corp. v. U.S. Die Casting & Dev. Co., (1997) 687 A.2d 563,
568 (adding that the threshold may be satisfied by a credible showing through
documents, logic, or testimony).[8]    The burden is "not insubstantial
... [and] is not an invitation to an indiscriminate fishing expedition."  Id. at 565.
Since a member will
often have more than one purpose, the member's primary purpose must be proper;
any secondary purpose, whether proper or not, is irrelevant.  CM & M Group, supra,
453
A.2d at 792.  "[T]he primary purpose
must not be adverse to the best interest of the corporation."  Id. 
The court "may deny inspection where the shareholder is
shown to have possession of all the information that is requested, or where the
request is made out of sheer curiosity, unrelated to any legitimate interest of
the stockholder, or where the sole purpose of the inspection is to harass the
corporation."  Id.
Under Delaware law, the desire to investigate mismanagement
is a proper purpose.  Gill v. Regency
Holdings, LLC, (“Regency Holdings”) (Del. Ch. June 21, 2023)
2023 WL 4607070, *13; Sanders v. Ohmite Holding, LLC, (2011) 17 A.3d
1186, 1194.  A mere statement of a
purpose to investigate mismanagement is insufficient.  Regency Holdings, supra, 2023
WL 4607070 at *13.  Rather, the member
“must present some evidence to establish “a credible basis” from which the
court can infer that wrongdoing may have occurred.  Id.
Honarkar’s inspection demands state the following purposes:
(a) to value his interests in the MOMs, Subsidiaries, and Other Owned
LLCs; (b) to determine whether and to what extent the other members and
Managers of the MOMs have breached their contractual and other
obligations; (c) to determine whether and to what extent the other members
and Managers of the MOMs have committed waste as of the assets of the MOMs,
Subsidiaries, and/or Other Owned LLCs; (d) to determine whether and to
what extent the other members and Managers of the MOMs have engaged in
wrongdoing, theft, self-dealing, commingling or other improper conduct; (e)
to determine whether and to what extent the Managers of the MOMs have failed to
maintain the books and records as required by law and the MOMs Operating
Agreements; and (f) to determine whether the books and records of the
entities are complete and accurate.  Honarkar Decl., ¶14, Exs. 8-10.  Honarkar summarizes these as stating two indisputably valid purposes: to
value his ownership interest and to investigate wrongdoing by the other members
and Managing Managers.  Reply at 7.
 
a. Wrongdoing
Honarkar’s principal purpose in making his inspection demand
is to investigate wrongdoing.  Respondents
note that Honarkar can only inspect records that are "necessary and
essential" to achieving a proper purpose. 
6 Del. C. § 18-305(g). Honarkar seeks to investigate wrongdoing by the
other members and the Managing Manager (Makhijani/Continuum), but the mere
statement of a purpose to investigate possible mismanagement, without more,
will not entitle inspection relief. 
“There must be some evidence of possible mismanagement as would warrant
further investigation of the matter." 
Helmsman, supra, 525 A.2d at 165.  Opp. at 13.
Respondents argue that the only evidence that Honarkar offers
in support of wrongdoing is his self-serving declaration.  Honarkar alleges that: (i) Makhijani did
not make required capital contributions; (ii) Makhijani took out loans without
Honarkar's consent; (iii) the MOM Members sold tenant-in-common interests
without consent; and (iv) the MOMs did not distribute proceeds from these loans
or sales.  Opp. at 13-14.
Respondents contend that these allegations are false.  Honarkar's true purpose for seeking books
and records is to harass, intimidate, and develop his claims against the MOMs
in the Related Cases.  See BBC
Acquisition Corp. v. Durr-Fillauer Medical, Inc., (1992) 623 A.2d 85, 90
(court refused to accept shareholder's stated purpose as its true primary purpose).  The MOMs removed Honarkar from the
Administrative Manager position after they discovered evidence of his
mismanagement and diversion of corporate funds. 
Since his removal, Honarkar has embarked on a scorched earth campaign to
wrest control of the MOMs.  The MOMs objected
to the inspection demands based on a reasonable belief that the requests
were solely designed to intimidate, harass, and cause harm to the MOMs and the
companies they owned.  See 6 Del.
C. § 18-305(c) (proper to withhold information that a manager reasonably believes would not
be in the best interest of the LLC to disclose).  Opp. at 14.
The court concludes that Honarkar has presented a valid
purpose for his demands to investigate wrongdoing by the MOM Members, Managing Managers,
and Makhijani. 
He presents evidence that, rather than make the required $20 million capital
contribution to the MOMs, they secretly had the MOMs borrow $20 million from Nano
Banc using Honarkar’s own properties to secure the loan.  These other Members and Makhijani took those
funds from the MOMs, put them in a bank account belonging to themselves, and
used the funds as their capital Contribution to the MOMs.  Honarkar Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8-11; Maralan Decl.,
Exs. 16 (loan documents), Ex. 17 (associated DOTs),  Honarkar Decl., Ex. 1 (escrow closing
statement showing that the loan proceeds were used by other Members as a
“Deposit”).  In other words, Respondents secretly
invested in the MOMs by using the MOMs own money and obligating the MOMs to
repay this loan to a third-party lender. 

Respondents at least partially admit this wrongdoing.  They state that they funded their capital
contribution with a loan that was “nominally” taken out by the MOMs
themselves.  Opp. at 6.  Respondents claim this was proper because, at
the same time, the other Members entered into a Contribution Agreement with the
MOMs that obligated the other Members to make all payments on the loan.  Id.
Whether the other Members have made the loan payments to date
is not supported by documentary evidence and whether they will continue to do
so is unknown.  What is known is that
Respondents wrongly used the MOMs to borrow money, obligating it to repay the
loan, and used properties then owned by Honarkar to do so, all without his
knowledge.[9]  This is sufficient evidence to
establish a credible basis of wrongdoing. 

 
b. Value of Honarker’s Membership
Honarkar also seeks to value his membership interest in the
MOMs  Respondents argue that Honarkar’s academic
interest in valuing a business interest is not a legitimate purpose.  He must establish "a present need for
such valuation, a mere statement of that purpose, though valid in law, might
not be bona fide in fact."  Helmsman,
supra, 525 A.2d at 165.  Respondents
contend that Honarkar has failed to present any evidence to explain why he
needs to value his membership interest and note that he is restricted from selling
or marketing his interest under section 10 of the Operating Agreements.  See Honarkar Decl., Exs. 2-4.
Under
applicable Delaware law, a member’s desire to value his/her membership interest
is a valid purpose for inspection, particularly where, as here, the limited
liability company is privately held.  “Under Delaware
law, a member’s desire to value her interests in the company—particularly where
the company is privately held -- ‘has long been held as a proper purpose’ to
inspect books and records.’”  Regency
Holdings, supra, 2023 WL 4607070 at *13; Helmsman, supra, 525 A.2d at 165 (valuing a minority
interest in a closely-held corporation “is a valid purpose for inspecting a
corporation’s books and records.”). 
Honarker’s purpose of valuing his membership interest is not
merely academic.  He has presented
credible evidence of wrongdoing with respect to the $20 million capital
Contribution.  He also has provided evidence
that the Managing Managers have taken out loans secured by the properties he
contributed to the MOMs and sold interests in those properties to third parties
without informing him. Honarkar Decl., ¶¶ 8-11; Maralan Decl., Exs. 16-19.  Honarker does not know whether these loan/sale
proceeds were received by the MOMs.  Honarkar
Decl., ¶¶ 9, 12.  These actions are likely
to have an effect on the value of his membership interests.  
This is sufficient evidence of a proper purpose
to value Honarkar’s membership interest.
 
c. Complete Records
Honarkar states a purpose of determining whether the books
and records of the MOMs are complete.  Respondents
argue that Honarkar's "mere statement of a purpose to investigate… without
more, will not entitle [him] to broad… inspection relief," and may
be disregarded.  Helmsman, supra, 525 A.2d at
165.  Opp. at 13.
Again, the evidence of wrongdoing supports the purpose of
evaluating the completeness of the MOMs records.  There also is the fact that Respondents have
refused to produce any financial information regarding the MOMs -- e.g., tax
returns, profit and loss statements, financial ledgers – which supports an
inference that the books and records may not be complete.  See Honarkar Decl., ¶¶ 19-20.  
 
            6. Whether the Demands Are Reasonably Related To Honarkar’s Purpose
Respondents correctly note that
Honarkar can only inspect records that are "necessary and essential"
to achieving these proper purposes.  See
6 Del. C. § 18-305(g). They contend that Honarkar’s demands are
overbroad and that he fails to "narrow his demand to those documents which
the evidence has shown to be essential and sufficient for the purpose for which
inspection is sought."  Helmsman, supra, 525 A.2d at
168.  Opp. at 13.  Respondents further argue that the demands (a) call
for the creation of documents, (b) are rendered moot by the MOMs’ production to
date, or seek to inspect records already in Honarkar’s
possession as the former Administrative Manager.  See CM & M Group,
Inc., supra, 453 A.2d at 792. 
The MOMs have produced nearly 2000 pages of records in response
to both the inspection demands and discovery Honarkar served in the Related Cases.  Opp. at 14-15. 
Honarkar
replies that the production is far from complete.  Reply at 9-10.  Most significantly, Respondents have not
produced any financial documents of the MOMs such as the MOMs’ tax returns,
expense and income ledgers, profit and loss statements, and statements of
assets and liabilities.  Ybarra Decl., ¶
5.  Respondents have produced only the
tax records for the entities that Honarkar contributed to the MOMs.  Honarkar is entitled to see the books and
records of the MOMs, not merely documents related to the Owned LLCs.  Indeed, the Nano Banc loan was a loan to the
MOMs, not the Owned LLCs, and Respondents have yet to produce any documents
regarding that loan.  Reply at 10.
Honarkar
argues that the applicable Delaware statute states that a member is entitled to
“[t]rue and full information regarding the status of the business and financial
condition of the limited liability company” and a copy of the LLC’s federal,
state, and local income tax returns.  6
Del. C. § 18-305(a)(1)-(2).  The
Operating Agreements go even further, stating that the Managing Managers shall prepare
and deliver to the Members each of the following categories of documents
regarding the MOMs: (i) fiscal year balance sheet; (ii) profit and loss
statement; (iii) audited financial statements; (iv) tax returns; and (v) “full
and accurate books and records of the Company wherein shall be recorded and
reflected all of the Contributions and all of the income, expenses and
transactions of the Company.”  Honarkar
Decl., Ex. 2 §§ 12.1, 12.2(a)-(b). 
Respondents have neither produced, nor permitted Honarkar to inspect,
any of these categories of documents. 
Reply at 10-11.
Kluchin admits
that the MOMs “maintain such books, records, files, and accounting ledgers, as
well as copies of leases, emails, and other documents relating to their
business” Kluchin Decl., ¶4.  These are
documents that the Operating Agreements expressly require the Managing Members
to maintain.  Honarkar Decl., Ex. 2,
§12.1.  Honarkar is entitled to inspect
all of those records, and Respondents’ selective production of other documents
does not somehow absolve them from permitting such inspection.  Reply at 10.
The court
generally agrees with Honarkar.  Respondents
must produce the tax records and financial information for the MOMs required by
6 Del. C. section 18-305(a)(1)-(2) and the Operating Agreements.  Respondents need not produce documents that
they can show they already have produced in this case or in the Related
Cases.  However, Respondents may not rely
on Honarkar’s status as a former Administrative Manager to assume that he
possesses any other documents.  They must
be able to document the fact that they have produced a record in the various
lawsuits.
In light of this general ruling, the
court will address Respondents’ specific objections, most of which are too
general to be valid or rely on the overruled claim of improper purpose.
 
Requests a.-d.
a. A current list
of the full name and last known address of each Member of the MOM LLCs and all
persons who can act on their behalf or on behalf of the Subsidiaries and/or
Other Owned LLCs (defined in the Operating Agreements of the MOM LLCs), with
the Capital Contributions, Capital Account, and Member Percentage of each
Member; 
b. A current list
of the full name and business or residence address of the Managing
Member; 
c. A copy of the
Certificate of Formation and charter documents of each of the Subsidiaries and
Other Owned LLCs, any amendments thereto, as well as any executed Powers of
Attorney pursuant to which the Certificate of Formation or other charter
documents were executed;  
d. Copies of the
federal, state, and local income tax returns or information for each of the MOM
LLCs, the Subsidiaries, and the Other Owned LLCs;  
 
Honarkar points out that a.-d. seek
categories of documents expressly referenced in 6 Del. C. section 18-305(a)(1-4).  Pet. Op. Br. at 11-12.  
Respondents respond that a. improperly
requires the creation of a document. 
Nonetheless, the MOMs identified the members and produced a list of the
managers (a. and b.).  Hsu Decl., Ex. 2;
Kluchin Decl., ¶ 47 (MOM_0000285).  
Respondents may be correct that
these requests may require the creation of a document, but the statute
expressly requires it.  Respondents need
not produce documents if they have fully complied with a. and b.
Respondents argue that Honarkar
is in possession of the certificate of formation (c.)[10]
because he was involved in the formation of the companies he contributed and should
possess such documents.  Honarkar also
participated in the negotiation and drafting of the MOM formation documents and
even attached the MOM Operating Agreements to his motion.  In any event, the MOMs produced the requested
formation documents.  Opp. at 15.
Respondents may not rely on
Honarkar’s status as former owner of the contributed companies to assume that
he has requested documents.  Respondents
need not produce more documents if they have fully complied with c.
Respondents
contend that Honarkar obstructed the MOMs' preparation of tax returns (d.) by
demanding unreasonable valuations. 
Kluchin Decl., ¶44.  Due to his obstruction,
the tax returns for certain companies for the 2021 tax year have not been
filed.  Id.  Nevertheless, the MOMs produced all available
tax returns in their possession. 
Opp. at 16.
Honarkar
replies that Kluchin carefully states that “[t]he MOM Entities” have been
unable to file “all 2021 tax returns.”  Kluchin Decl., ¶44 (emphasis added).  He does not say that none of the MOMs filed a
2021 tax return.  Reply at 10.  
Respondents
must produce all tax returns (d.) for the MOMs and related entities that have
been prepared and filed with taxing authorities that have not yet been
produced.
 
Requests e.-l.
e. Copies of the
complete financial statements (including, but not limited to, balance sheets,
income statements, cash flow statements, and footnotes) of the MOM LLCs and
each of the Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs for each month from June 8, 2021
(the “Start Date”) to the present, along with a profit and loss statement for
each year then ended; 
f. Copies of the
MOM LLCs’, Subsidiaries’, and Other Owned LLCs’ books and records relating to
the internal affairs of those entities from 2021 to the present; 
g. Copies of the
general ledgers of the MOM LLCs, Subsidiaries, and Other Owned LLCs for each
year from 2021 to the present; 
h. Copies of the
general ledger of the Company and each of the Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs
from the Start Date through the present; 
i. Copies of the
business plans, budgets, and ARGUS files of the Company and each of the
Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs, and all documents relating thereto, for the
period from the Start Date to anytime in the future; 
j. Copies of all
estimates or projections of the MOM LLCs and each of Subsidiaries’ and Other
Owned LLCs’ past, present or future performance and value, and all documents
relating to such estimates or projections, for the period from the Start Date
to anytime in the future; 
k. Copies of all
materials concerning the content and value of the MOM LLCs and each of the
Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs’ inventory for the period from the Start Date
through the present; 
l. Copies of all
materials identifying and reflecting the value of the assets (excluding
inventory) of the MOM LLCs and each of the Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs
for the period from the Start Date through the present; 
 
            Honarkar contends that these demands
plainly relate to his valid and proper purpose in valuing his membership
interest in the MOMs.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13.
Respondents argue that Honarkar
has failed to demonstrate that e., f., g., and h. are necessary to a proper
purpose.  Further, Honarkar is in
possession of the ledgers of the Owned Companies, and financial records for
accounts that Honarkar has secretly opened in the name of these entities.  Opp. at 16. 
Honarkar seeks inspection of financial
statements, general ledgers, and the internal affairs of the MOMs and related
entities pursuant a proper purpose.  If
Respondents do not have ledgers for a related entity, they are not required to
produce what they do not have.
Respondents argue that Honarkar
has failed to demonstrate for i. that these records are necessary to a proper
purpose.  Further, Honarkar is in
possession of all of these documents; he alone was originally responsible for
creating the business plans, including budgets and detailed timelines, of the
Owned Companies.  See Honarkar
Decl., Exs. 2-4 (Operating Agreements, Section 9.10).  Opp. at 16.
The court agrees that business
plans and budget documents are projections that are not necessary and essential
to Honarkar’s showing of potential wrongdoing and company value and need not be
produced.  6 Del. C. § 18-305(g).
Respondents argue that Honarkar
has failed to demonstrate that j. and k. are necessary to a proper
purpose.  These records have no
relationship to Honarkar's claim that the MOM Members purportedly failed to
make their capital contribution, and the documents are plainly sought to harass
the companies.  Opp. at 17.
The court agrees that estimates and
projections of performance and value and the value of inventory are not
necessary and essential to Honarkar’s showing of potential wrongdoing and
company value and need not be produced.  6 Del. C. §
18-305(g).
 
Requests m.-t.
m. Copies of all
materials including, without limitation, any loan agreements, notes, mortgages,
security agreements, credit agreements, guarantees, and UCC Statements,
concerning the MOM LLC’s and each of the Subsidiaries and Other Owned LLCs’
debts and/or liabilities for the period from the Start Date through the
present; 
n. Copies
of all materials reflecting, substantiating, calculating, describing, or
constituting payments, fees, or benefits provided or paid to the Manager or any
of its Affiliates from or in respect of the MOM LLCs or any of the Subsidiaries
or Other Owned LLCs for the period from the Start Date through the
present; 
o. Copies
of all materials reflecting, substantiating, calculating, describing, or
constituting reimbursements or advances (whether for expenses of Manager, its
Affiliates, any Owned Company or otherwise) requested by the Manager or its
Affiliates, or paid by the MOM LLCs or any of the Subsidiaries or Other Owned
LLCs to or for the benefit of the Manager or its Affiliates, or otherwise paid
from revenues from the assets of the MOM LLCs, Subsidiaries, or Other Owned
LLCs, for the period from the Start Date through the present; 
p. Copies
of all materials which set forth the respective budgeting, forecasts, strategy,
business plans, inventory planning, and cash management of the MOM LLCs,
Subsidiaries, and/or Other Owned LLCs, for the period from the Start Date
through the present; 
q. Copies
of all materials which identify all manufacturers, suppliers, contractors,
vendors, distributors, or others, who have provided goods or services to the
MOM LLCs or any of the Subsidiaries or Other Owned LLCs, to whom the MOM LLCs
or any of the Subsidiaries or Other Owned LLCs have paid more than $5,000 from
the Start Date to the present; 
r. Copies
of all materials related to any outside financing of the MOM LLCs or any of the
Subsidiaries or Other Owned LLCs, and any steps taken by the MOM LLCs or any of
the Subsidiaries or Other Owned LLCs to explore outside financing (whether
through debt or equity transactions); 
s. Copies
of all materials reflecting any sums received from the MOM LLCs, Subsidiaries,
and/or Other Owned LLCs to the Manager or MOM Member the Start Date to the
present; and 
t. Copies
of all materials for each bank account associated with the MOM LLCs,
Subsidiaries, or Other Owned LLCs, including, without limitation, month-end
account statements. 
 
Honarkar argues
that these requests are made pursuant to his purpose of investigating
wrongdoing by the MOM Members and the Managing Member
(Makihijani/Continuum).  Pet. Op. Br. at
13-15.
Respondents argue that m. is incredibly
overbroad and exceeds any purpose that Honarkar has asserted.  Nonetheless, the MOMs have produced loan
documents in their possession.  Opp. at
17.
Respondents also argue that n.-t.
are overbroad requests that have not been shown necessary to for a proper
purpose.  Furthermore, the requests seek
the creation of documents and also seeks documents already in Honarkar's
possession as the Administrative Manager, including the business plans which
Honarkar himself was responsible for creating. 
Opp. at 17.
Loan agreements (n.) are
relevant to the issue of wrongdoing, as are payments to the Managing Member or
any of its Affiliates (o. and s.) and outside financing (r.).  However, budgeting and forecasts (p.), vendor
payments (q.), and bank account statements (t.) are not necessary and essential
to Honarkar’s purpose of potential wrongdoing or membership value and need not
be produced.  6 Del. C. § 18-305(g).
 
            F.
Conclusion
            The
FAP is granted.  A writ shall issue
directing Respondents to produce, or make available for inspection and copying,
the records described for requests a.-t within 30 calendar days of the entry of
judgment.
Petitioners’ counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment and writ, serve them on Respondents’ counsel for approval as to form,
wait ten days after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are
objections, and then submit the proposed judgment and writ along with a
declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set
for December 12, 2023 at 1:30 p.m.


