  Case Number:  21STCV22824    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 10, 2024             JUDGMENT:
November 14, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Sandra Torres v. Sean Saied
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV22824            
 
MOTION
TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD PREJUDGMENT INTEREST

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Sandra Torres
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Sean
Saied
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/18/21: Complaint filed.
·        
09/14/21: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
10/19/21: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
10/13/23: Final Statement of Decision.
·        
11/14/23: Judgment entered. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            On June 18,
2021, Plaintiff Sandra Torres (“Torres”) commenced this action against
Defendant Sean Saied (aka Hooshang Saied) (“Saied”), seeking specific, general,
and punitive damages and other relief for breach of fiduciary duty and
conversion. Torres filed a First Amended Complaint on September 14, 2021,
asserting the same claims with a prayer for the same damages. 
 
            Saied
answered and filed a Cross-Complaint on or about October 19, 2021. In his Cross-Complaint,
Saied asserted claims for common counts, breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty, promissory fraud, and declaratory relief. In addition to
Torres, Saied named her partner, Farzad Khalili (“Farzad”), brother-in-law
Farhad Khalili (“Farhad”), and three limited liability companies, California
Plaza Building LLC, World Power Investment Group LLC, and Manchester Group 26
LLC. Farzad and Farhad answered and represented themselves. The LLCs were
either dismissed or defaulted. The Court held a bench trial in this case on
June 15-16, 2023, and issued a Final Statement of Decision on October 13, 2023.
Judgment was entered on November 14, 2023.
 
Plaintiff moves to amend the
judgment to add prejudgment interest pursuant to the Court’s Final Statement of
Decision and the Judgment itself. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add Prejudgment Interest is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff
is directed to prepare, serve, and file a proposed amended judgment reflecting
prejudgment interest in the amount of $159,728
within 10 days
of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to amend the
judgment to add prejudgment interest pursuant to the Court’s Final Statement of
Decision and the Judgment itself. 
 
Timing of Motion
 
            Defendant
contends that the motion is improper and untimely because it was not made
before entry of judgment or within the 15-day limit of a motion for new trial
under Code of Civil Procedure section 659, pursuant to North Oakland Medical
Clinic v. Rogers (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 824, 830-31.) In that case, the
Court of Appeal held that, where prejudgment interest had been claimed in the
pleadings, but prejudgment interest had not been addressed by the parties, the
court, or the jury before entry of judgment, the time to seek prejudgment
interest expires, at the latest, with the time to move for a new trial under
Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 659. (Id. at 827-28; 30-31;
Code Civ. Proc. §§ 657; 659.) These circumstances are distinguishable from the
instant case, where the Court expressly addressed the issue of prejudgment
interest in its Statement of Decision by deferring a ruling on the matter pending
a separately filed motion. Moreover, the plaintiffs in North Oakland
delayed nearly three months before seeking imposition of prejudgment interest via
a proposed order, not a noticed hearing. (North Oakland, supra, 65
Cal.App.4th at 827-28.) Here, Plaintiff’s motion was brought exactly one month
after entry of a judgment which specifically states that prejudgment interest
shall be addressed by a subsequent motion. (Judgment.) The Court is therefore
not persuaded that North Oakland is applicable to the case at hand. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff seeks
to amend the judgment to add prejudgment interest in the amount of $260,760.00
under Civil Code section 3287(a). 
 
Legal Standard for Prejudgment Interest
 
            Civil Code
section 3287(a) provides:
 
(a) Every
person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being made
certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in him
upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from
that day, except during such time as the debtor is prevented by law, or by the
act of the creditor from paying the debt. This section is applicable to
recovery of damages and interest from any such debtor, including the state or
any county, city, city and county, municipal corporation, public district,
public agency, or any political subdivision of the state. 
 
(Civ. Code § 3287(a), bold emphasis added.) 
 
The case
law interpreting Civil Code section 3287 provides some guidance to its
application . . . . As discussed above, "[t]he policy underlying
authorization of an award of prejudgment interest is to compensate the injured
party--to make that party whole for the accrual of wealth which could have been
produced during the period of loss. [Citations.]" (Citation omitted.)  
 
The court
in Cassinos also said: "The test for recovery of prejudgment
interest under [Civil Code] section 3287, subdivision (a) is whether
defendant actually know[s] the amount owed or from reasonably available
information could the defendant have computed that amount.
[Citation.]" (Citations omitted.) "The statute [Civil Code section
3287] does not authorize prejudgment interest where the amount of damage,
as opposed to the determination¿of liability, 'depends upon a judicial
determination based upon conflicting evidence and is not ascertainable from
truthful data supplied by the claimant to his debtor.'
[Citations.]" ( Citation omitted.) Thus, where the amount of damages
cannot be resolved except by verdict or judgment, prejudgment interest is not
appropriate. (Citation omitted.)  
 
(Wisper Corp. v. Cal. Commerce Bank (1996) 49
Cal.App.4th 948, 960, bold emphasis and underlining added.) 
 
Entitlement
to Interest
 
            Plaintiff
contends that she is entitled to prejudgment interest under section 3287(a)
because this dispute arises out of Defendant refusing to disburse a specified
sum of money held in trust for Plaintiff’s benefit when Plaintiff requested
that disbursement. The Court concurs with Plaintiff: the potential
damages were certain insofar as they could be computed from the proceeds of the
sale of the Broadway Property which were not returned. 
 
//
 
//
Date of Calculation
 
            Plaintiff bases
her request on an interest rate of 10 percent per annum on the funds which the
Court found that Defendant improperly withheld, totaling $521,520.00, from 2019
through entry of judgment. Plaintiff does not provide a specific date in the
moving papers beyond claiming interest begins to run following the last partial
payment by Defendant sometime in 2019. However, interest begins
to accrue under section 3287(a) on the first day that there exists both a
breach and a liquidated claim. (County of Solano v. Lionsgate Corp.
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 741, 753.) Defendant argues that there was no
date certain for repayment because “there were disputes between the parties
regarding what, if any, funds were due, and there was ongoing dealings between
the parties with regard to the uses of the funds.” (Opposition p.3:24-26.) This
is nothing more than an attempt to relitigate the issues already decided at
trial. Defendant did not have a “dispute” with Plaintiff regarding the funds
due; Defendant wrongfully retained funds held in trust for Plaintiff’s benefit.
(Statement of Decision, p. 5.) 
 
            According
to sworn testimony elicited at trial Defendant’s breach of fiduciary duty and
conversion occurred when Defendant refused in 2019 to disburse the remaining proceeds
from the sale of the promissory note on the Broadway Property in connection
with the request to provide these funds to stave off foreclosure on Plaintiff’s
home. (See Final Statement of Decision p. 6.) Thus, Plaintiff’s request, which
calculates interest as accruing for the whole of 2019, sweeps too wide a time
span. That said, as sworn testimony establishes that the breach occurred during
that year, but not the specific date when that refusal took place, the Court
will award prejudgment interest from the median date of July 1, 2019 through
entry of judgment.
 
Interest Rate
 
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff is improperly seeking interest at a rate of 10% in a
tort action. Article XV, section 1 of the California Constitution also
provides: 
 
The rate of interest
upon a judgment rendered in any court of this State shall be set by the
Legislature at not more than 10 percent per annum. Such rate may be variable
and based upon interest rates charged by federal agencies or economic
indicators, or both.
 
In the absence of the
setting of such rate by the Legislature, the rate of interest on any judgment
rendered in any court of the State shall be 7 percent per annum.
 
(Cal. Const. art. XV § 1.) Under Civil Code
section 3289, interest on a breach of a contract that does not specify an
interest rate is fixed by statute at 10%. (Civ. Code § 3289.) There is no
corresponding statute for non-contract claims. The Court therefore concurs with
Defendant that 10% interest is improper. However, as Plaintiff is entitled to
some prejudgment interest, the Court will instead award interest at the rate of
7% per annum. 
 
            Thus,
applying the formula described above, the Court calculates that the correct
amount of prejudgment interest to be $159,728.00, derived from an annual
interest of $36,506.40 (7% of $521,520.00) divided by 365 days, for a daily
interest of $100.02 accruing for a total of 1,597 days from July 1, 2019,
through entry of judgment on November 14, 2023. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add Prejudgment Interest is
GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff
is directed to prepare, serve, and file a proposed amended judgment reflecting
prejudgment interest in the amount of $159,728.00
within 10 days
of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 10, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 