 Case Number:  23STCP04473    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 10, 2024             Judgment: December
12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Entrision, LLC v. Deadstock, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCP04473            
 
MOTION
TO AMEND JUDGMENT AND APPLICATION FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT ON SISTER STATE
JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Judgment Creditor Entrision, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 6/5/24
 
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
12/01/23: Application filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This was an application for entry of judgment on a sister state judgment.

 
Judgment Creditor moves to amend
the judgment to name Brian Bereber as a judgment debtor identified in the
sister state judgment, and applies for entry of judgment against him thereon. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Judgment
Creditor’s Motion to Amend the Judgment and Application for Entry of Judgment
on Sister-State Judgment is GRANTED as described herein. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Judgment Creditor moves to amend
the judgment to name Brian Bereber as a judgment debtor identified in the
sister state judgment, and applies for entry of judgment against him thereon. 
 
 
Amendment of Judgment
 
            Plaintiff
moves for amendment under Code of Civil Procedure section 187. This code
section is a catch-all provision which states:
 
When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; ¿and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding
be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable
process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable
to the spirit of this Code.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 187.) As Judgment Creditor states, the
proposed Judgment Debtor is expressly named as a debtor in the underlying
Wisconsin default judgment on which this enforcement action is based. (See
Application for Entry of Judgment p.3.) Judgment Creditor states that the Clerk
of Court would not permit the submission of a separate Application for Entry of
Sister-State Judgment, instead requiring that Judgment Creditor amend the
judgment. (Declaration of Michael A. Strauss ISO Mot. Exh. B.) As entry of a
sister-state judgment is mandatory when an application is made in conformity
with the Sister State Judgments Act (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1710.15, 1710.20;
1710.25), the Court turns to the accompanying application to determine whether
the procedural requirements have been satisfied. 
 
Entry of Judgment on Sister State Judgment
 
            An
application for entry of sister-state judgment “shall be executed under oath
and shall include all the following: 
 
(1) A statement that
an action in this state on the sister state judgment is not barred by the
applicable statute of limitations. 
 
(2) A statement,
based on the applicant's information and belief, that no stay of enforcement of
the sister state judgment is currently in effect in the sister state. 
 
(3) A statement of
the amount remaining unpaid under the sister state judgment and, if accrued
interest on the sister state judgment is to be included in the California
judgment, a statement of the amount of interest accrued on the sister state
judgment (computed at the rate of interest applicable to the judgment under the
law of the sister state), a statement of the rate of interest applicable to the
judgment under the law of the sister state, and a citation to the law of the
sister state establishing the rate of interest. 
 
(4) A statement that
no action based on the sister state judgment is currently pending in any court
in this state and that no judgment based on the sister state judgment has
previously been entered in any proceeding in this state. 
 
(5) Where the
judgment debtor is an individual, a statement setting forth the name and last
known residence address of the judgment debtor. Where the judgment debtor is a
corporation, a statement of the corporation's name, place of incorporation, and
whether the corporation, if foreign, has qualified to do business in this state
under the provisions of Chapter 21 (commencing with Section 2100) of Division 1
of Title 1 of the Corporations Code. Where the judgment debtor is a
partnership, a statement of the name of the partnership, whether it is a
foreign partnership, and, if it is a foreign partnership, whether it has filed
a statement pursuant to Section 15800 of the Corporations Code designating an
agent for service of process. Except for facts which are matters of public
record in this state, the statements required by this paragraph may be made on
the basis of the judgment creditor's information and belief. 
 
(6) A statement
setting forth the name and address of the judgment creditor.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1710.15(b).) A properly authenticated
copy of the sister-state judgment must also be attached. (Id. subd.
(c).) 
 
            The
application included in the moving papers states that the judgment creditor is
Entrision, LLC, 324 E. Wisconsin Ave., # 625, Milwaukee, WI 53202, that the
judgment debtor is Brian Bereber, whose last known residence address is 506 N.
Gardner St., Los Angeles, CA 90036, and that the sister state is Wisconsin and sister
state court is the Milwaukee County Circuit Court, 901 N. 9th Street, Room 104,
Milwaukee, WI 53233. (Motion p.4:17-24.) An authenticated copy of the
sister-state judgment is attached to the application. (Strauss Decl. Exh. A.)
Judgment Creditor states that the amount remaining unpaid on the judgment is $86,252.84,
plus interest at an annual interest rate of 8.5%, as allowed by the sister
state. (Wisc. Stats. 814.04(4); Mot. p.4:26-28.) Judgment Creditor also
declares that an action on the sister-state judgment is not barred by the
statute of limitations, that, on information and belief, no stay of enforcement
is now in effect in the sister state, and that no action is pending nor any
judgment has previously been entered against Bereber in any California
proceeding based on the sister-state judgment. (Motion p.5:3-8.) As Judgment
Creditor has satisfied the procedural requirements of the operative statutes,
the Court finds that amendment of the judgment to name Brian Bereber as
Judgment Debtor is appropriate. 
 
Accrued Interest
 
            Judgment
Creditor also requests that the Court amend the existing judgment to reflect
accrued post-judgment interest. However, the authorities which Judgment
Creditor cites concern the recovery of costs, which are separate from
post-judgment interest. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 685.010 [interest]; 685.040 [costs
of enforcement].) Costs of enforcement are enumerated in section 685.070 and do
not include post-judgment interest. (Code Civ. Proc. § 685.070.) Indeed,
section 685.090 states that costs properly sought in a memorandum of costs are
“included in the principal amount of the judgment remaining unsatisfied.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 685.090(b).) Interest, by definition, is not principal. Moreover, by
the plain language of Code of Civil Procedure section 685.010, that interest
accrues by operation of law, without need for further amendment. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 685.010.) The Court therefore declines to amend the judgment in this
manner because amendment is neither proper nor necessary. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Amend the Judgment and Application for Entry of
Judgment on Sister-State Judgment is GRANTED as described herein. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 10, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 