 Case Number:  24STCV17114    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  73 12/13/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
CHRISMAN v. PUENTE HILLS SUBARU, et
al. (24STCV17114)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Carney
Shegerian (Shegerian & Associates, Inc.)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Gene Williams (Paduano
& Weintraub LLP)
 
DEFENDANT SUBARU OF AMERICA, INC.’S demurrer
TO THE complaint (filed 11/15/24 and 11/19/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Subaru of America, Inc’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Dominique Chrisman filed this
employment action against Defendants Puente Hills Subaru, Bakhtiari, LLC and
Subaru Corporation. 
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint to
correct the name of Defendant Subaru Corporation to Subaru of America, Inc. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
 Discrimination in Violation
of the FEHA
2.     
Hostile Work Environment Harassment in Violation of the FEHA
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA
4.     
Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in Violation of the
FEHA
5.     
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA
6.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA
7.     
Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention
8.     
Wrongful Termination of Employment in Violation of Public Policy
9.     
Whistleblower Retaliation
10.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff began working for Defendant Puente Hills Subaru (“Puente Hills”)
in December of 2019. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff initially
joined Puente Hills as a Lot Supervisor and was subsequently promoted through
the ranks, ultimately assuming the role of Delivery Specialist. (Complaint, ¶ 12.)
Plaintiff has a mental disability in which he suffers from severe anxiety and depression. (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff engaged in, or Defendants believed that Plaintiff had engaged or may
engage in, protected activity and conduct. (Ibid.) In
2021, Plaintiff began working under the supervision of Saman Bakhtiari, who
consistently engaged in condescending, hostile, and intimidating behavior
towards his employees. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Around May of 2022,
Lorenzo Serrano (“Serrano”), the general manager, requested Plaintiff purchase
gift cards and bitcoin for unhappy customers using Plaintiff’s personal funds,
assuring Plaintiff that Puente Hills would reimburse these expenses and provide
Plaintiff with a bonus for using his own funds. Shortly after, Serrano began
exerting pressure on Plaintiff for additional bitcoin purchases, asking Plaintiff
to purchase thousands of dollars' worth of bitcoin with his own money. Plaintiff
promptly declined, as he did not feel comfortable spending such large amounts
of his own money and he had not received the bonus he was promised. Days
afterwards, Serrano summoned Plaintiff to his office, where another employee,
Jeffrey Salier (“Salier”), was present. Serrano and Salier were known for being
good friends at the dealership. Serrano and Salier accused Plaintiff of
stealing $3,500 worth of gift cards – a claim entirely devoid of merit.
Following this disconcerting encounter, Serrano sent Plaintiff a suspicious
text message stating, “Don’t worry about the missing cards.” Plaintiff promptly
contacted chief financial officer, Omar Zeola, to report the encounter with
Serrano and Salier, as well as report all purchases Serrano had asked him to
make. In August of 2022, Serrano was terminated for accounting discrepancies.
Salier took over as general manager, with direct oversight of Plaintiff. This
transition created severe discomfort for Plaintiff, as Salier’s retaliatory
behaviors and attitude were evident, including scheduling Plaintiff to come in
on his days off. (Ibid.) These conditions caused Plaintiff
to suffer from severe anxiety and depression and caused him to arrive late to
work due to his deteriorating mental health. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) On
January 3, 2023, Salier terminated Plaintiff, pretextually for tardiness. (Ibid.)
 
On November 15, 2024 and on November 19, 2024, Defendant Subaru of
America, Inc. (“Subaru of America”) filed a Demurrer to the Complaint, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s Complaint
fails to state an actionable claim against Subaru of America because it does
not assert facts sufficient to identify any basis upon which he contends that
Subaru of America was Plaintiff’s employer or joint employer and, accordingly,
there is no basis for liability on the claims alleged. Thus, Subaru of America demurs
to the entire Complaint.
·       Subaru of
America also demurs to the entire Complaint on the basis of uncertainty. 
·       The result of
Plaintiff’s failure to plead necessary facts is to leave Subaru of America
unable to ascertain the nature or scope of the claims against it, necessitating
dismissal of the Complaint as to Subaru of America.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff has
adequately alleged Subaru’s liability as a joint employer under California law.
o  
A party qualifies as an employer if it (a) exercises control over
wages, hours, or working conditions; (b) suffers or permits work; or (c)
engages in a common law employment relationship. (Martinez v. Combs
(2010) 49 Cal.4th 35, 64.) Plaintiff alleges that Subaru directly or indirectly
employed him and acted as an agent of Puente Hills Subaru. These allegations
are sufficient to apprise Subaru of its potential liability.
o  
Discovery is necessary to clarify Subaru of America’s role.
·       Plaintiff
contends the Complaint is not uncertain.
o  
Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and strictly construed.
Ambiguities in pleadings can and should be resolved through discovery,
particularly when the defendant has superior knowledge of the relevant facts. (Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) Plaintiff’s allegations are
intelligible and provide sufficient notice of the claims.
 
Subaru of America filed a reply, arguing:
·       Plaintiff
fails to assert any actual facts supporting an employment relationship between
Subaru of America and Plaintiff.
·       Plaintiff effectively concedes that he
has no evidence of an actual employment relationship between himself and Subaru
of America when he argues that he needs to conduct discovery in order to
establish such a relationship.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Subaru
of America submitted a declaration stating she discussed the
grounds of the Demurrer with Plaintiff’s counsel by telephone on October 28,
2024 and in subsequent emails. (Leon Decl., ¶¶
4-6.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
meet and confer obligations.   
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.      Joint
Employer Liability
 
Subaru of America argues that the
Complaint does not state facts sufficient to support joint employer liability. 
 
To determine whether an organization
is a joint employer, courts look to the facts surrounding the employment
relationship. (Vernon v. State of California (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114,
124-125). Factors considered include payment of salary to the employee, the
location where the employee performed the work, the employer’s authority to
hire and discharge the employee, and the employer’s overall control over the
means and manner of the employee’s performance. (Id. at p. 125.) Further, “a person can be a joint employer
without exercising direct control over the employee. If the putative joint
employer instead exercises enough control over the intermediary entity to
indirectly dictate the wages, hours, or working conditions of the employee,
that is a sufficient showing of joint employment.” (Medina v. Equilon
Enterprises, LLC (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 868, 879).
 
California
law defines “employ” using three alternative tests: 1. Exercising control over wages,
hours, or working conditions. 2. Suffering or permitting work. 3. Engaging in a
common law employment relationship. (Martinez v. Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th
35, 64.)
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges that Defendants Subaru
of America, Puente Hills Subaru, and Bakhtiari, LLC collectively employed
Plaintiff and engaged in unlawful conduct that culminated in his wrongful
termination. Specifically, the Complaint alleges that:
 
Defendants
directly and indirectly employed Plaintiff under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”). (Complaint, ¶ 5.) 
 
All defendants acted as agents of all
other defendants in committing the acts alleged herein. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) 
 
All
defendants compelled, coerced, aided, and/or abetted the discrimination,
retaliation, and harassment alleged in this Complaint, which conduct is
prohibited under California Government Code section 12940(i). (Complaint, ¶ 4.)
 
The Court finds these allegations are
not sufficient to support joint employer liability. While the Complaint alleges
that Defendants collectively employed Plaintiff, there are no other allegations
of Subaru of America’s control over aspects of the employment relationship,
such as control over wages, hours, or working conditions.
 
Plaintiff argues in its opposition
that Subaru of America’s potential involvement in overseeing policies,
compliance, and training at Puente Hills Subaru supports its classification as
a joint employer. In support, Plaintiff cites to Castaneda v. Ensign Group,
Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1015, where the court found that an entity that
supplies policies, training, and oversight can be liable as an employer, even
without direct control over day-to-day operations
 
However, Plaintiff does not allege in
the Complaint that Subaru of America was involved in overseeing policies,
compliance, and training at Puente Hills Subaru.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged joint employment liability as to
Subaru of America. Thus, the demurrer to each cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend. 
 
D.     Uncertainty
 
Subaru of American also demurs to the
entire Complaint on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
CCP section 430.10(f) provides that a
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is
so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.”
(Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85
(emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty does not go to the
failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea
v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to
what the pleader means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations
of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues
which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) 
 
The Court does not find that the Complaint’s
causes of action are uncertain. The demurrer is not sustained on this ground. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant Subaru of America, Inc’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 