  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  73 12/13/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANTS’
SUBPOENA OF DAVID RODRIGUEZ; AND DOCUMENTS, RECORDS REPORTS AND ELECTRONICALLY
STORED INFORMATION ON CASE NUMBER, RS2400426  (filed 09/30/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Defendants’ Subpoena of
David Rodriguez is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On January 24, 2023,
the Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the fourth,
sixth and eighth causes of action. The motion was denied as to the first,
second and third causes of action.
 
On September
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Quash Defendants’ Subpoena of David
Rodriguez,
arguing:
·      
Plaintiff moves to quash the trial
subpoena for David Rodriguez
·      
Plaintiff argues the subpoena is
untimely and was not properly served on Plaintiff.
·      
Plaintiff argues the subpoena is directed at an inspector that is
unrelated to this case, who was not even employee of the City
of Beverly Hills in 2019, and has no personal knowledge or involvement in
Plaintiff's case.
·      
David
Rodriguez was not listed on Defendants’ witness list. 
 
Defendants filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s motion is moot
o  
The
subject trial subpoena would have required the witness to attend trial on
October 7, 2024. That date has passed. The trial has been reset for December 8,
2025. Defendants have not yet reissued a trial subpoena to this witness.
·      
David
Rodriguez is a Code Enforcement Officer with the City of Beverly Hills and
responds to complaints for violations of various federal, state and local laws
pertaining to building code compliance and property maintenance standards and
other related matters. He encountered Plaintiff on July 12, 2024 when he
inspected plaintiff’s apartment because of her complaints of conditions in her
apartment. Defendants intend to offer the testimony of Mr. Rodriguez for the
purpose of impeaching Plaintiff
·      
The
subpoena was timely and properly served.
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply, contending: 
·      
The motion is moot because trial was continued.
·      
Whether the subpoena was timely served does not matter because the
subpoena is unlawful and intended to harass Plaintiff
·      
David Rodriguez should have been listed on Defendants’ witness
list. 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 
(Code
of Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff
moves to quash Defendants’ trial subpoena to David Rodriguez. 
 
However,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motion is moot. The subject trial subpoena
would have required the witness to attend trial on October 7, 2024. Trial was
rescheduled for December 8, 2025. Defendants have not yet reissued a trial
subpoena to this witness. (Oppos., p. 2.)
In Plaintiff’s reply she does not appear to dispute that the
motion is moot because the trial has been continued. (Reply, p. 3.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Defendants’
Subpoena of David Rodriguez is moot and thus, DENIED.
CONCLUSION 

Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash Defendants’ Subpoena of David Rodriguez is DENIED.