 Case Number:  21STCV17952    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  73 12/13/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ENCINAS, et al. v. HIKARI JAPANESE
RESTAURANT, et al. (21STCV17952)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Marc
Grismer (Law Office of Marc P. Grismer)
Counsel
for Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC/moving party: Fang Li
(Horton, Oberrecht & Kirkpatrick)
Counsel
for Defendant Jhoon, Inc.: James Hart (Law Offices of Schneider & Hosmer) 
Counsel
for Cross-Complainant Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC: James Stanley (Law
Offices of Jill A. Wood)
 
DEFENDANT MONTEBELLO TOWN CENTER INVESTORS, LLC’S
MOTION FOR RELIEF OF ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO CODE
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 473(b) (filed 11/05/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant
Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC’s Motion for Relief of Order Denying
Motion for Summary Judgment Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(b)
is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiffs Laurie Encinas and Jesus Encinas
filed this action against Defendants Hikari Japanese Restaurant, a.k.a. Sake
House by Hikari, a.k.a. Hikari Sushi Bar, an unknown entity; UBS Realty
Investors, LLC, a Massachusetts Limited Liability Company and Does 1 to 25. 
 
On June 15, 2021, Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC (“MTCI”) was named as Doe 1. 
 
On November 18, 2021, Montebello Mall Management PR, LLC (“MMMPR”)
was named as Doe 6. 
 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Death of
Plaintiff Laurie Encinas. 
 
On November 30, 2023, a First Amended Complaint was filed by
Plaintiffs Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Pamela Chey, Jesus Encinas, Jr., Crystal
Laurie Encinas, Jennifer Rose Encinas, and Jennifer Rose Encinas on behalf of
the estate of Laurie Encinas. 
 
On October 24, 2024, the Court denied Defendant Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
This is an action for premises
liability arising from a trip and fall incident. Plaintiffs allege that on
March 7, 2021, Laurie Encinas attempted to enter the outdoor dining area of the “Sake
House by Hikari Sushi Bar” (hereinafter “Hikari Restaurant”) when she tripped and fell due to a
dangerous condition, an abrupt and exposed height differential of approximately
1-inch-high where the concrete walkway and Hikari Restaurant’s outdoor patio
entryway threshold met (“subject entryway”). Plaintiffs further allege that
Laurie Encinas fell forward and struck her head on an umbrella stand which caused
serious head injuries requiring immediate medical intervention. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) Negligence and
(2) Premises Liability.
 
On
November 5, 2024, Defendant MTCI filed the instant Motion for Relief of Order
Denying Motion for Summary Judgment, arguing:
·      
Relevant procedural history
o   On April 14,
2023 Plaintiff Laurie Encinas unfortunately passed away. On November 30, 2023,
a first amended complaint was filed for wrongful death and survivor damages by
Laurie Encinas’ family including Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Chey, Jesus Encinas,
Jr., Crystal Laurie Encinas and Jennifer Rose Encinas, individually and on
behalf of the estate of Laurie Encinas (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). (See Li
Decl. ¶ 3).
o   On July 11,
2023, MTCI filed its motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff’s original
complaint. (See Li Decl. ¶ 4).
o   On January
30, 2024, MTCI notified all counsel that the motion scheduled on February 5,
2024 was off calendar. Given that Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint on
November 30, 2023, MTCI’s motion filed on July 11, 2023 was moot because it was
a motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s original complaint. In addition,
MTCI intended to file a new motion for summary judgment and/or adjudication to
encompass a new argument that Plaintiffs are not entitled to survivor damages
such as pre-death pain and suffering pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
377.34(b). (See Li Decl. ¶ 6).
o   Instead of
cancelling the reservation, MTCI continued the hearing under the reservation
number 536163003873 to October 24, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
o   MTCI
mistakenly and inadvertently did not cancel the reservation number 536163003873
or the hearing on October 24, 2024. Indeed, MTCI did not even file a reply to
the opposition to the motion because it did not realize until the Court’s
tentative ruling that the hearing was still on calendar. (See Li Decl. ¶ 7).
·      
The MSJ filed on July 11, 2023 was moot because of the First
Amended Complaint 
o   The first
amended complaint was filed by Laurie Encinas’ family alleging the wrongful
death and survivor damages. An amended pleading making substantive changes
supersedes the original. See State Comp. Ins. Fund v. Superior Court
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1130-1131.
·      
Counsel
for MTCI mistakenly and inadvertently failed to take the hearing on a moot
motion for summary judgment scheduled on October 24, 2024 off calendar.
·      
Therefore, the Court should allow MTCI to re-file a motion for
summary judgment/adjudication on: 1) whether MTCI had a duty of care given the
trivial defect doctrine; and 2) whether Plaintiffs are entitled to pre-death
pain and suffering pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 377.34.
·      
MTCI has not filed an answer to the FAC
o   An amended
complaint that omits defendants named in the original complaint operates as a
dismissal as to them.
o   In this case,
Plaintiff filed the original complaint on May 13, 2021 and filed a Doe
amendment naming MTCI on June 15, 2021. Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
does allege Does are responsible but has not amended the first amended
complaint to name MTCI as a Doe defendant
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Defendant’s Allegations the FAC
Complaint Dismissed All Does is Moot
o  
Defendant
provides absolutely no authority that a Doe Defendant that was amended to name
an actual defendant via Amendment to Complaint (Fictitious/incorrect Name) is
dismissed by virtue of the filing of a first amended complaint.
o  
In
ruling on Plaintiffs’ Motion for Case Management Conference and/or Trial
Setting, the Court found that MTCI was not dismissed
·       The Motion for Summary Judgment was
Not Moot Because of the FAC
o  
The
cases relied on by Defendant to support his position are not persuasive. In
those cases, the courts held the summary adjudication or judgment orders were
void because the amended complaints asserted new claims, allegations, or
defendants.
o  
The
test for what is and is not a “substantive change” should focus on whether the
correction or addition might give rise to any different amount or form of
liability or indicate the existence of any defense or ground for avoiding
liability, not reasonably disclosed in the original complaint. Paterra v.
Hansen (2021) 64 Cal. App. 5th at 530, 279 (quoting text); see also Ford v.
Sup.Ct. (1973) 34 Cal. App. 3d 338, 343 - adding a new cause of action based on
a different legal theory (e.g., amended complaint alleging negligent, instead
of intentional, misrepresentation).
o  
Here,
with regard to the legal theory of liability, and the Defendants desire to file
an additional Motion for Summary Judgement on whether MTCI had a duty of care
given the trivial defect doctrine; which is unchanged by the filing of the FAC.
The building code violation at the threshold Plaintiff tripped and fell on -
that Defendant contends is a trivial defect - is the exact same defect as in
the original complaint as is the FAC. Defendant, presumably knowing that new
evidence is not permitted on reply, wants a second bite at the apple.
·       Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) does
not apply
o  
The
discretionary relief provisions of CCP § 473(b) apply to a motion for relief
from a summary judgment on the grounds of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Henderson v PG&E Co. (2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 215, 229;
Huh v Wang (2007) 158 Cal. App. 4th 1406, 1419.
o  
Here,
Defendant alleges that “[a]lthough MTCI intended to file a new motion for
summary judgment/adjudication, MTCI had not yet filed or served the motion.
MTCI mistakenly and inadvertently did not cancel the reservation number
536163003873 or the hearing on October 24, 2024.” See Motion P. 3: 23-28 and
Declaration of Li, ¶ 7.
o  
These
allegations simply do not meet the discretionary relief provisions of CCP §
473(b).
o  
It
is equally irrelevant that Defendant did not file a reply to Plaintiffs’
opposition as it could not bring new evidence and it would not have mattered
either way as the Court considered the moving papers, opposition thereto,
declarations, affidavits, and objections to evidence.
·       Defendant fails to comply with Code of
Civil Procedure § 473(b)
o  
Code
of Civil Procedure § 473(b) requires that “[a]pplication for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
o  
Defendant’s
motion for relief is devoid of the proposed Motion for Summary Judgment and as
such the Court is required to deny this motion.
 
MTCI filed a reply, arguing:
·       MTCI seeks an order that allows it to
re-file a motion for summary judgment on the trivial defect issue.
·       MTCI maintains the FAC supersedes the
original complaint and mooted the MSJ
·       MTCI’s mistake meets the discretionary
relief provisions of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b). MTCI’s counsel’s mistake
was essentially a calendaring mistake. In Elston, the court found that
relief was properly granted “where an attorney states that he was unaware of
his duty to appear or answer because his employees misplaced papers or
misinformed him as to the relevant date.” (Elston v. City of Turlock
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.)
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
 
The discretionary relief provisions of section 473, subdivision
(b) provide in pertinent part: 
 
“The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” 
 
As to discretionary relief, “[a]lthough a trial court has
discretion to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent judgment, this
discretion may be exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown that
there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has raised that ground
in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time limits.” (Cruz
v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) 
 
B.      Procedural Deficiency
As an initial matter, MTCI’s Motion fails to comply
with section
473, subdivision (b).
Under section 473, subdivision (b), an application for relief
shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be
filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted.
Here, MTCI requests relief from the Court’s order denying MTCI’s
Motion for Summary Judgment to Plaintiff’s original Complaint. MTCI seeks leave
to re-file a Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication. However, MTCI has not
filed a proposed Motion for Summary Judgment with its instant application for
relief. 
 
Therefore, pursuant to section 473, subdivision (b), MTCI’s motion
cannot be granted based on this procedural deficiency. Nevertheless, the Court continues its discussion on the
merits. 
C.      Discussion
 
MTCI argues that due to counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect, they had failed
to take the hearing on their Motion for Summary Judgment off calendar. 
 
On
July 11, 2023, MTCI filed its motion for summary judgment on the trivial defect
doctrine as to the original complaint. (Li Decl., ¶ 4.) The motion for summary
judgment hearing was originally scheduled for September 28, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
under reservation number 536163003873. (Li Decl., ¶ 5.) The motion hearing was
continued to February 5, 2024 under the same reservation. (Ibid.)
 
On
November 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a FAC alleging wrongful death and survivor
damages by Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Chey, Jesus Encinas, Jr., Crystal Laurie
Encinas and Jennifer Rose Encinas, individually and on behalf of the estate of
Laurie Encinas. (Li Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.)
 
On
January 30, 2024, MTCI notified all counsel that the motion scheduled on
February 5, 2024 was off calendar because the motion was now moot due to
Plaintiff’s filing of the FAC. (Li Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue the Motion for Summary Judgment was not moot. 
 
However,
courts have generally found that an amended complaint supersedes all prior
complaints.  (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1130-31.)  The amended complaint furnishes the sole
basis for the cause of action, and the original complaint ceases to have any
effect either as a pleading or as a basis for judgment.  (Ibid.) 
Since there is but one complaint in a civil action, the filing of an amended
complaint moots a motion directed to a prior complaint.  (Ibid.) 
Accordingly, once an amended complaint is filed, it is error to grant summary
judgment or adjudication on a cause of action contained in a previous
complaint.  (Ibid.) 
 
Therefore,
since MTCI assumed their motion was moot, they intended to file a new motion
for summary judgment and/or adjudication. MTCI contends they also intended to
include a new argument that Plaintiffs are not entitled to survivor damages
such as pre-death pain and suffering pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
377.34(b). (Li Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
However,
MTCI’s counsel states that instead of cancelling the reservation, the hearing
was mistakenly and inadvertently continued to October 24, 2024. (Li Decl., ¶
6.) MTCI’s counsel further states she did not realize a hearing was still on
calendar until she saw the Court’s tentative ruling on October 24, 2024. (Ibid.)
MTCI states they did not file a reply, evidentiary objections or prepare oral
argument. Thus, MTCI seeks to file a new Motion for Summary Judgment as to
Plaintiffs’ FAC.
 
Based on these grounds, the Court finds that MTCI may be entitled
to seek relief based on counsel’s inadvertence and mistake. However, as
discussed above, MTCI’s instant motion fails to comply with section 473,
subdivision (b). Therefore, MTCI’s motion is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant
Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC’s Motion for Relief of Order Denying
Motion for Summary Judgment Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(b)
is DENIED without prejudice. 