  Case Number:  22STCV06689    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge
Bruce G. Iwasaki

Department 58
 

Hearing Date:             November 26, 2024
Case
Name:                Stage v. Unruly Agency LLC
Case
No.:                    22STCV06689
Matter:                        Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Sarah Stage
Opposing
Party:          None

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion
for Leave to File the First Amended Complaint is granted. 

 
            On February 23, 2022, Plaintiff Sarah Stage (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint against Defendant Unruly Agency LLC (Unruly) and its alleged
owners, Defendants Tara Niknejad and Nicky Garthrite, for nine causes of
action, including breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, intentional and negligent misrepresentation, infliction
of emotional distress, negligent interference with prospective economic advantage,
and unfair competition. 
 
On February 25, 2022, Unruly and
co-defendants filed an Answer denying the allegations. That same date, Unruly
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Stage for breach of contract, breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional and
negligent misrepresentation, and intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage. Unruly alleged that it is a
company that “works with models, social media talent and influencers to build
their brands and increase their revenue,” and that cross-defendant Stage is
such an “influencer.” Unruly alleged that Stage retained it to “generate growth
for her social media platforms, specifically, Stage’s OnlyFans account.” Unruly
avers that under their contract, Stage was to pay Unruly a percentage of
monthly revenue from her OnlyFans account. Unruly alleges that, at some
unspecified time, Stage stopped paying for its services. Unruly further alleges
that Stage “attempted to assert pressure by contacting other Unruly models,
broadcasting false claims, in an effort to persuade them to leave their
contract too and cause Unruly to surrender their claim against Stage.”
(Capitalization removed.) The Cross-complaint includes purported screen shots
of text messages between Stage and representatives of Unruly, including
photographs, reflecting the parties’ agreement to add more risqué material on
her social media platform.
 
On March 23, 2022,
Plaintiff Stage filed a motion to strike the first, second, and fifth causes of
action of Unruly’s Cross-complaint under the anti-SLAPP statute. On April 19,
2022, the Court denied this anti-SLAPP motion. Thereafter, the Court stayed
Stage’s demurrer to the Unruly’s Cross-Complaint and stayed Unruly’s motion for
attorney fees on the grounds that there was a pending appeal on the Court’s
ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Then, on October
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint.
No opposition was filed.
 
The motion for
leave to file a First Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibit 3 is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(c).)
 
Legal Standard
 
            The court may, in furtherance of justice,
allow a party to amend any pleading upon any terms as may be proper. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 473, subd. (a), 576.) Courts liberally grant leave to amend based on
a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same
case. (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972)
6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Thus, requests for leave to amend
generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory
in bringing the proposed amendment, and the delay will cause prejudice to the
opposing party if leave to amend is permitted. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490; see also Armenta
ex rel. City of Burbank (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642 [“instances
justifying the court’s denial of leave to amend are rare.”].)  Absent prejudice, delay alone is insufficient
to deny leave to amend. (Higgins v. Del
Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)
A party requesting leave to amend must
state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted and
added, as well as specify where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
changes are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a)(1)-(3).) The moving
party must also attach the proposed amended pleading with a declaration by
counsel, describing (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(b)(1)-(4).)  
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff seeks to
add “class action” claims for the violation of Business and Professions Code
Section 17200, declaratory relief, and unjust enrichment causes of action. Specifically,
the moving papers contend that Plaintiff only recently discovered the facts –
the determination by the Labor Commission that the Agreement underlying the
Complaint was illegal and void -- prompting this amendment. (Dowlatshahi Decl.,
¶ 7.) 
 
There is no
opposition to this motion; as such, there is no argument contending prejudice
or undue delay would result from allowing this amendment. Nor is there any
argument that this motion does not otherwise comply with any procedural or
substantive requirements for amendment under the Code of Civil Procedure or
Rules of Court. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants leave to Plaintiff to file the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
is ordered to serve and file the First Amended Complaint on or before December 4,
2024.  