

 
Background 
 
Erick
Zavala (Zavala/Plaintiff) filed suit on November 2, 2023 against Defendants
Miner, Ltd., Miner GC, Limited Partnership, Miner GP, LLC, and Onpoint Group
LLC (collectively, Defendants) for several labor law violations and
discrimination claims. The First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed on June 4,
2024, and alleges the following: Defendants are in the business of installing,
repairing and servicing loading docks and electrical retracting doors at
commercial facilities and warehouses. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff began working for
Defendants in May of 2022 as a service technician, whose job duties involved
traveling to facilities to install, repair, and maintain electrical doors. (Id.
at ¶ 13.) On February 13, 2023, Plaintiff was involved in an automobile
accident that resulted in serious injuries. (Id. at ¶ 17.) Plaintiff
received medical treatment and physical therapy for his injuries; moreover,
Plaintiff’s physician emailed Plaintiff’s supervisor and manager requesting
that Plaintiff be placed on light duty from home. (Id. at ¶ 17.) For the
next several months Plaintiff worked from home. On May 12, 2023 Plaintiff
received a letter from Defendants informing him his employment had been
terminated effective May 5, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 23.) 
 
Throughout
his employ, Plaintiff alleges multiple statutory violations including failure
to provide meal periods, failure to provide overtime compensation, and failure
to provide accurate wage statements. The FAC pleads fifteen causes of action:
 
1.
Nonpayment of Overtime Compensation (Lab. Code, §§ 510, 1194);
2. Failure
to Provide Off-Duty Meal Periods (Lab. Code, §§ 226.7, 512);
3. Failure
to Provide Off-Duty Rest Periods (Lab. Code, § 226.7);
4. Failure
to Furnish Accurate, Itemized Wage Statements (Lab. Code, §§ 226, 226.3);
5.
Waiting-Time Penalties for Nonpayment of Wages (Lab. Code, §§ 201, 203, 218);
6.
Disgorgement of Profits (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.)
7.
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code, §§ 12940(a), (m)(2); 12941);
8. Failure
to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(m));
9. Failure
to Engage in Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(n));
10.
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(h));
11.
Failure to Prevent/Remedy Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of
FEHA (Gov.
Code, § 12940(k));
12.
Violation of CFRA Rights (Gov. Code, § 12945.2(a), (q));
13.
Retaliation in Violation of CFRA (Gov. Code, § 12945.2(k));
14.
Whistleblower Retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5 et seq.); and
15.
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
 
            Following
a demurrer and motion to strike the First Amended Complaint filed by
Defendants, the Court sustained the demurrer in its entirety to the seventh
through fifteenth causes of action. 
 
            Plaintiff
filed his operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 13, 2024,
alleging the same fifteen (15) causes of action against Defendants as his
previous two complaints.
 
            On October 14,
2024, Defendants again demurred to the seventh
through fifteenth causes of action. Defendants also filed a motion to
strike portions of the SAC. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and motion to strike.[1]

 
            The demurrer is overruled in part
and sustained in part. The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions of law. (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
demur to the seventh through fifteenth causes of action in the SAC on the same
grounds as the demurrer to the FAC. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s new
pleading only contains three new substantive allegations, none of which are
sufficient to state a claim. (SAC ¶¶ 18-20.) 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Disability Discrimination
 
The elements of a disability
discrimination claim under FEHA are: (1) that plaintiff suffered from a
disability, (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of the job with or
without reasonable accommodations, and (3) plaintiff was subjected to an adverse
employment action because of the disability. (Glynn v. Superior Court
(2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 53.) 
 
Previously, the Court found that the
FAC failed to draw a nexus between Plaintiff’s physical disability and his
termination, noting an absence of detail about how the discrimination took
place. The Court relied on the ruling in Glynn, where the court reversed
summary judgment on appeal because it was found that although there was no
animosity against Glynn with regard to his disability, there was an erroneous
belief about his physical condition which triggered Glynn’s termination. (Glynn,
supra, at 53-54.) Similarly, in Wallace v. County of Stanislaus
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, the plaintiff there was able to demonstrate that he
was forced to take unpaid leave because of his knee injury. (Wallace, supra,
118-119 and 129.) 
 
Here, the only relevant new
allegation to the pleadings is the allegation that Plaintiff was only given
online training assignments and no other work assignments. (SAC ¶ 18.) This
allegation does not substantively change the pleadings.
 
Nonetheless, although the Court previously
found Plaintiff’s allegations to be inadequate, upon further review the Court finds
that the allegations are sufficient. In reaching this conclusion, the Court
relies predominately on the temporal proximity between when Plaintiff’s
disability arose and when the adverse employment action occurred. Here, Plaintiff
was hired in May 2022. (SAC ¶ 13.) In February 2023, he was injured. (SAC ¶
16.) Approximately three months later, Plaintiff was terminated. (SAC ¶ 25.) Further,
the allegations in the SAC, which the Court must accept as true, state that Defendant’s
reason for Plaintiff’s termination – failing to “check in with anyone for a few
days” -- was untrue. (SAC ¶ 27.) 
 
In Arteaga
v. Brink's, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 334, 353, a FEHA disability
discrimination case, the court explained that temporal proximity, by itself, could
establish a prima facie case of discrimination or retaliation; the court did
qualify, however, that “temporal proximity alone is not sufficient to raise a triable
issue as to pretext once the employer has offered evidence of a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for the termination.” (Id. at p. 353.)


At the
pleading stage, these allegations are sufficient to show a discriminatory nexus
between the disability and the adverse employment action. Therefore, the demurrer is overruled
as to the seventh cause of action.
 
Eighth Cause of Action 
 
To state a claim for a failure to
accommodate claim, Plaintiff must show (1) he has a disability covered by FEHA;
(2) he can perform the essential functions of the position; and (3) his
employer failed reasonably to accommodate his disability. (Brown v. Los
Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107.) In California, a “reasonable
accommodation is a modification or adjustment to the work environment that
enables the employee to perform the essential functions of the job he or she
holds or desires.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
359, 373.)
 
The
SAC does not allege facts showing that Defendants failed to provide Plaintiff
with reasonable accommodations following his car accident. As Plaintiff alleges,
Defendants acknowledged Plaintiff’s doctor’s recommendation and allowed him to
be placed on light duty by working from home. (SAC ¶¶ 17-18.) The SAC then
alleges that Plaintiff experienced technical difficulties that were later
resolved by Defendants; despite the allegations, technical difficulties are not
a failure to accommodate. (SAC ¶¶ 21-23; Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m).) Moreover,
to the extent that Plaintiff now bases his failure to accommodate claim on the
allegation that most of the work assignments he was given while working from
home were online training courses (SAC ¶ 18) – Plaintiff cites no legal
authority to explain how this accommodation was unreasonable in light of his
previous job as a door installer.
 
The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians' Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43 [“The
plaintiff bears the burden of proving there is a reasonable possibility of
amendment.”].)
 
Ninth Cause of Action
 
            In the ninth cause of action for
failure to engage in the interactive process, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants
never sought to engage in a timely, good-faith interactive process with him to
determine whether it was possible to implement effective reasonable
accommodations for his disabilities.” (SAC ¶ 79.) 
 
            In
order to succeed on a cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive
process, “an employee must identify a reasonable accommodation that would have
been available at the time the interactive process should have occurred.” (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1018.)         “The purpose of the interactive process
is to determine what accommodation[ ] is required.” (Brown, supra, 60
Cal.App.5th at 1109.) Thus, an “employer cannot be held liable for failing to
engage in [the] interactive process when the employee was in fact offered a
reasonable accommodation.” (Wilson v. County of Orange (2009) 169
Cal.App.4th 1185, 1195; Hanson, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 229 [there is
“no reason why [an] employer should be subjected to liability for failing to
engage in the interactive process where the employee was reasonably
accommodated”]; Brown, supra, 60 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1109-1110 [allegation
that employer agreed to a reasonable accommodation was inconsistent with a
claim that employer failed to engage in the interactive process].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff still has not identified the requested reasonable accommodations for
which Defendants denied or failed to engage in an interactive process, as
required under FEHA. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n).) That is, the SAC does not
allege facts showing that Plaintiff was not provided a reasonable
accommodation.


            The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 


Tenth Cause of Action for
Retaliation under FEHA
 
            An
employer is liable for retaliation under FEHA if it is found to “discharge,
expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has
opposed any practices forbidden under” FEHA. (Gov. Code., § 12940, subd. (h).)
That is, the person has engaged in protected activity. California courts have
generally held that in order to qualify as a “protected activity” an employee’s
conduct must “demonstrate some degree of opposition to or protest of the
employer’s conduct or practice based on the employee's reasonable
belief that the employer's action or practice is unlawful.” (Moore v.
Regents of the Univ. of California (2016) 248 Cal. App. 4th 216, 246.)
Moreover, a prima facie showing requires the employee to show the adverse
action about which he complains happened after or simultaneously with his
protected activity. (Morgan v. Regents of University of California
(2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69.)
 
            Here, the SAC repeats the same
conclusory allegations as the FAC, alleging Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment in retaliation “for his disabilities and medical conditions, filing
a workers’ compensation claim for work-related injuries, and opposing
Defendants’ mistreatment of him based on [these actions].” (SAC, ¶ 88.)
However, Plaintiff alleges no specific facts showing any communication by
Plaintiff of his “reasonable belief that the employer's action or
practice is unlawful” prior to his termination. As such, Plaintiff has not
alleged that he engaged in any protected activity under FEHA. Filing
a workers compensation claim is protected activity under Labor Code
section 132a. But merely filing a workers compensation claim does not satisfy
the opposition to the employer’s conduct that is an element of FEHA
retaliation. The Court will permit Plaintiff one further opportunity to furnish
additional facts in support of this cause of action.
 
            The demurrer
to the tenth cause of action is sustained, but with leave to amend. 


Eleventh Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent/Remedy
Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
 
FEHA also
imposes liability against an employer for “fail[ing] to take all reasonable
steps necessary to prevent discrimination ... from occurring.” (Gov. Code, §
12940, subd. (k).) 
 
The SAC does
not allege Plaintiff made any complaints of discrimination, which are necessary
in order for Defendants to be liable for a failure to investigate Plaintiff’s complaints
of discrimination and prevent discrimination. 
 
            The
demurrer to this cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Fourteenth Cause of Action for Whistleblower Retaliation 
 
Labor Code section 1102.5 provides whistleblowers
protection from employer retaliation. (People ex rel. Garcia-Brower v.
Kolla’s, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 719, 722, internal citation omitted.) Specifically,
an employer is prohibited from retaliating against an employee for disclosing
information when “the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation
of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or regulation.” (Lab.
Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).) 
 
On demurrer, Defendants again contend
the only specific allegation showing Plaintiff informed Defendants of any
potential violations of federal and state law was after his termination. (SAC ¶
29.) Defendants correctly argue this cannot be the basis of a cause of action
under section 1102.5 as a matter of law because the adverse treatment had
already occurred. Nowhere in the SAC, does Plaintiff allege that he engaged in
protected activity prior to termination. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the
fourteenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Fifteenth Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination in Violation
of Public Policy 
 
“The elements of a claim for
wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee
relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. It is well established that a
termination premised on an employee’s refusal to violate either a statute or an
administrative regulation may support a claim for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical
Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.) 
 
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges his
termination based on his disability was the violation of public policy. As
aforementioned, the SAC alleges sufficient facts to state a claim for disability
discrimination. 
 
Therefore, as to the fifteenth cause
of action, which is derivative of the seventh cause of action, the demurrer is
overruled.
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
            Here,
Defendants seek to strike the request for punitive damages in the SAC.
 
            With
respect to allegations of punitive damages, they are recoverable where the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied.
(Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation our outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser, Law of Torts (4th ed. 1971) § 2, at
pp. 9-10] [italics omitted].) However, specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
            At
the pleading stage and based on the allegations arising from the disability discrimination
cause of action and allegations of resulting emotional distress, the Court
finds the SAC adequately allege facts supporting the request for punitive
damages. These allegations are sufficient this show a conscious disregard for
Plaintiff’s rights. 
 
            Thus, the
motion to strike portions of the SAC is denied.     
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the second
amended Complaint is overruled to the seventh and fifteenth causes of action.
It is sustained with leave to amend as to the tenth cause of action.  The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend as to the eighth, ninth, eleventh, and fourteenth causes of action, and those counts are dismissed. The
motion to strike claims for punitive damages is denied. 
 
 


