 Case Number:  24STCV15477    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki

Department 58
 

Hearing Date:             November
26, 2024
Case Name:                Ramirez
v. Torres
Case No.:                    24STCV15477
Motion:                       Motion
to Strike Portions of the Complaint  
Moving Party:             Defendant
Gary Torres
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Angelica Ramirez

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Strike is granted.

             
            This is a dog bite
case. Plaintiff sued her former landlord, Gary Torres, for (1.) strict
liability and (2.) negligence.  
   
            Defendant now moves to strike the
request for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
            The motion to strike is granted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include allegations not essential
to the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Here, Defendant requests the Court strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages.  
 
With respect to allegations of punitive damages, they are recoverable
where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or
implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation our outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [quoting Prosser, Law of Torts (4th ed. 1971) § 2, at
pp. 9-10] [italics omitted].) However, specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request for punitive damages that is not supported with specific
allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike.
Conclusory allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or
with “oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give
rise to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where
the complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
The Complaint contains no allegations showing any wanton, willful,
malicious or fraudulent conduct by Defendant. Specifically, Plaintiff only
provides vague conclusory allegations regarding an earlier dog attack on May 3,
2022. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Similar, allegations regarding an “almost” attack on the
mailman on June 3, 2022 are also vague. (Compl., ¶ 12.) There are no clear
allegations as to the severity of the alleged attacks or Defendant’s knowledge
of extent of these attacks. Thus, allegations of Defendant’s knowledge of the
viciousness of his dogs is weak. Further, the specific allegations of the
attack on Plaintiff suggests that the dog escaped from Defendant’s house at the
time of the June 21, 2022 attack. (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15 [“she heard her
landlord’s door open, and his young son “Boggy” yell “No Spot”!!].) 
 
Thus, the allegations show -- at most -- carelessness in Defendant’s
exercise of control of the dog. That is, the allegations do not show Defendant engaged
in conduct demonstrating “willful and conscious disregard” to the rights and safety
of others. Accordingly, the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to
support a request for punitive damages. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Motion to Strike
is granted. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. An amended complaint shall be
filed and served no later than December 26, 2024. 
 
 
 
 