  Case Number:  24STCV08675    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Buchanan, et. al. v. SRO Combo
Apartments, LLC, et. al., Case No. 24STCV08675
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Defendant’s Motion to Strike
 
Defendant Single Room Occupancy
Housing Corporation moves to strike irrelevant and inflammatory language and
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. The
motion is denied.
 
Any party may file a
timely notice of a motion to strike the whole or any part of a pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The motion may seek to strike any “irrelevant,
false or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or any part of the pleading
“not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) Irrelevant allegations
include allegations that are not essential to the statement of a claim,
allegations that are not pertinent to or supported by the claim and demands for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 431.10, subds. (b), (c).)
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant failed to properly maintain the property. (Complaint ¶¶
34-43.) Accordingly, any allegation that tends to prove that the Defendants did
in fact fail to properly maintain the property is relevant to Plaintiffs’
claims. 
 
Defendant
lists excerpts from the Complaint that they deem to be irrelevant and numbers
these excerpts one through eighteen. (Defendant’s motion to strike, p.7-10.) These
excepts contain the following allegations regarding the operation and
management of the property: SRO had a pattern of taking advantage of low income
tenants, SRO intentionally failed to repair the property, SRO failed to inspect
the property, SRO was notified by the Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD) and
that Los Angeles County Department of Public Health (LAPH) that the premises
were in violation of building codes and health and safety codes, the Defendant
allegedly willfully and negligently failed to remediate leaks and mold, SRO was
aware that tenants lacked awareness of the law, the SRO acted intentionally and
illegally with the intention to collect as much money from the tenants as
possible, and SRO acted as slum lords to maximize profit from low income
people. (Id.)
 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiffs’ reply did not address the relevancy of the above
excepts. (Defendant’s reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition, Lines 1-4, p. 2.) Therefore,
Defendant argues that the Plaintiffs have conceded that these allegations are
irrelevant. (Id.) The Court is not persuaded because the moving party
must sufficiently argue their position that the excerpts are irrelevant. Here,
Plaintiffs’ allegations do tend to show that Defendant failed to properly
maintain the property in violation of California law and thus the allegations
are relevant.
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs did not properly plead a cause of action that supports
a claim for punitive damages because Plaintiffs use conclusory statements and
have not attached copies of the alleged LAHD and LAPH violations mentioned in
the Complaint. (Defendant’s motion to strike, Lines 20-28, p. 13.) Furthermore,
punitive damages are judicially disfavored. (Id., Line 6, p. 14.)
 
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “(1) Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(1-2).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious
conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a
level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
1188, 1210.) 
 
To succeed
on a motion to strike punitive damages, it must be said as a matter of law that
the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.¿ (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-29.) “In order to survive a
motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing
an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”¿ (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations,
devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that
parties acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct.
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants' conduct described above was willful,
wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious, and initiated with malice and with
the intent to knowingly take advantage of, oppress, and injure Plaintiffs.”
(Complaint ¶ 52.) Plaintiffs also allege that “Defendant and their agents,
directors, and/or officers, who knowingly permitted the above-mentioned
habitability defects and untenable conditions to continue existing, was willful
and intentional as well as undertaken with malice against Plaintiffs and with a
conscious disregard of Plaintiffs' rights.” (Complaint ¶ 67.) These allegations
are sufficient to support the showing that Defendant acted with malice.
 