 Case Number:  24STCV10880    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30  Calendar No. Hong v. Beverly Hills Properties,  LLC, et. al., Case No. 24STCV10880   Tentative Ruling re:  Defendants’ Demurrer to Complaint   Defendants Rochelle Sterling, Donald T. Sterling and Beverly  Hills Properties, LLC demur to the Complaint. The Court overrules the demurrer  and orders Defendants to answer within ten (10) days of today’s date.              In reviewing the legal sufficiency  of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting  all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions, or  conclusions of law. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank); C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co.  (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled that a “demurrer lies  only for defects appearing on the face of the complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75  Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is  tested against a general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the  demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the  complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in  their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes omitted).) For  purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be construed liberally by  drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) When ruling on a demurrer, the  Court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or matters which may be  judicially noticed. (Blank, supra, 39  Cal.3d at 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic evidence or  judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a plaintiff  may have in proving his allegations. (Ion  Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer is  properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally construed, fails to state  facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)   Defendants Rochelle Sterling, Donald T. Sterling and Beverly  Hills Properties, LLC demur to the Complaint on the grounds that the Defendants  are mis-joined and that elder abuse is an improper cause of action.   Joinder “(a) All persons may be joined in one action as defendants  if there is asserted against them: (1) Any right to relief jointly, severally, or in the  alternative, in respect of or arising out of the same transaction, occurrence,  or series of transactions or occurrences and if any question of law or fact  common to all these persons will arise in the action; or (2) A claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the  property or controversy which is the subject of the action. (b) It is not necessary that each defendant be interested as  to every cause of action or as to all relief prayed for. Judgment may be given  against one or more defendants according to their respective liabilities. (c) Where the plaintiff is in doubt as to the person from  whom he or she is entitled to redress, he or she may join two or more  defendants, with the intent that the question as to which, if any, of the  defendants is liable, and to what extent, may be determined between the  parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 379.)   Defendants demur as to the first through eighth causes of  action on the grounds that the Defendants have been mis-joined. (Defendants’  demurrer, Lines 8-28, p. 6.) Specifically, Defendants contend that Donald  Sterling, dba Beverly Hills Properties, should not be included in this suit  because his wife Rochelle Sterling was already included as dba Beverly Hills  Properties and therefor the inclusion of Donald Sterling is duplicative because  California is a community property state. (Id.) Furthermore if  Plaintiff’s employer is dba as Beverly Hills Properties, Plaintiff cannot also  be simultaneously employed by Beverly Hills Properties, LLC. (Id.)   Here, the Complaint alleges that Donald Sterling and Rochelle  Sterling were the owners of corporate Defendant Beverly Hills Properties.  (Complaint ¶¶ 2-4.) Code Civ. Proc., section 379 subd. c, allows the Plaintiff  to join multiple defendants if there is a question as to which or to what  extent each defendant may be liable. Plaintiff alleges that Donald Sterling and  Rochelle Sterling may share liability as owners of the corporation that  employed Plaintiff. (Id.) Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to join them  in this action.   Eight Cause of Action: Financial Elder Abuse  “ ‘Financial abuse’ of an elder or dependent adult occurs  when a person or entity does any of the following: (1) Takes, secretes,  appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or  dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. (2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining,  or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a  wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. (3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or  assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or  personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined  in Section 15610.70.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30.)             “ ‘Earned  but unpaid salary or wages are vested property rights.’ [Citation].” Reyes  v. Van Elk, Ltd. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 604.               Here,  Plaintiff contends that the Defendants wrongfully withheld wages from her. (Plaintiff’s  Opposition, Lines 15-18, p. 4.) Defendants disagree and assert that the failure  to pay wages cannot be considered a taking as defined by Welf. & Inst.  Code, section 15610.30. (Defendants’ demurrer, Lines 2-16, p. 8.) Mainly,  Defendants argue that the elder abuse statue was never intended to protect  against wage and employment claims and Plaintiff’s position is not supported by  the labor code. (Id.) Lastly, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not  pled the required elements of fraud and undue influence. (Id., Lines  17-28, p. 8.)               The Court  disagrees. Earned wages would qualify as real or personal property.  Additionally, Welf. & Inst. Code, section 15610.30, requires that the  property be taken for wrongful use or intent to defraud. Here, Plaintiff has  alleged that her property was wrongfully withheld from her with the intent to  defraud and by undue influence. (Complaint ¶¶ 56, 58.) This is sufficient to  plead that her property was taken for wrongful use or fraud under the meaning  of the statue. Therefore, The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer as to the  eighth cause of action.