 Case Number:  BC551112    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 1, 2023                                          TRIAL DATE:  Disposed
                                                           
CASE:                         Pine Valley, Inc. v. Ajinomoto North America Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC551112
 





















 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Third Party
Hiroshi Kaho
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff and
Judgment Creditor Pine Valley, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
 On July 9, 2014, Plaintiff, Pine Valley, Inc., filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Ajinomoto North America, Inc., Ajinomoto Frozen
Foods, U.S.A, Inc., and Trader Joe’s Company, alleging causes of action for (1)
breach of written contract, (2) intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, (3) fraud, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) unfair
competition, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7) aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty, (8) violation of California Uniform Trade Secrets Act, and (9)
misappropriation of confidential and/or proprietary information.
 
On January 28, 2016, Plaintiff won a jury verdict against
Ajinomoto North America, Inc. and Ajinomoto Frozen Foods, U.S.A, Inc. (“Defendants”).  The
jury found, among other things, that Defendants willfully and maliciously
misappropriated Plaintiff’s trade secret for frozen-chicken fried rice and
frozen-vegetable fried rice (the “Trade Secrets”).  The Court also found
that Defendants should pay a reasonable royalty.  The parties
stipulated to a royalty of 4% of gross sales from the Trade Secrets sold and to
be sold by Defendants starting from January 28, 2016.   
 
On November 10, 2016, the Court found that the royalty
payments were to start on January 28, 2016 and to continue for so long as Defendants
sell the Trade Secrets.  On November 10, 2016, the Court issued an
order, which provided in relevant part, that Defendants would not be required
to pay the royalty when the Trade Secrets cease to exist. 
 
 On February 28, 2017, the Court entered judgment
against Defendants (hereafter, “Judgment Debtors”), which included the royalty
payments (the “Judgment”).  
 
On May 11, 2017, the parties filed appeals.  Plaintiff
(hereafter, “Judgment Creditor”) appealed from orders denying its ability to
recover punitive damages; Judgment Debtors appealed (1) the verdict and all of
the causes of action (2) the royalty award, and (3) the dismissal with
prejudice of Judgment Debtors’ cross-complaint against Judgment Creditor. 
 
On April 9, 2019, the Court of Appeal affirmed the the
Judgment against Judgment Debtors in all respects to all the causes of action,
including the royalty award, and affirmed the dismissal of Judgment Debtors’
cross-complaint.  The Court of Appeal denied Judgment Creditor’s
right to pursue punitive damages.  
 
On June 10, 2019, Judgment Creditor filed an Acknowledgement
of Partial Satisfaction of Judgment in the amount of $7,476,644.28.  Concurrently, the parties executed a signed
stipulation stating, in part, that the Judgment is partially satisfied,
excluding (1) the ongoing equitable royalty that Judgment Debtors owe to Judgment
Creditor accruing after March 31, 2019, (2) any attorney’s fees on appeal that
may be awarded to Judgment Creditor upon a timely filed motion, and (3) such
other motion as Judgment Creditor may file regarding the royalty provision of
the judgment.   The stipulation was signed by the Court on
July 25, 2019.
 
On September 8, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an Affidavit
for Order for Appearance and Examination of Third Party Ajinomoto Foods North
America, Inc. (“Ajinomoto Foods”).  In
the affidavit, Judgment Creditor states that it recently discovered that the
corporate status of Judgment Debtors, Ajinomoto North America, Inc. and
Ajinomoto Frozen Foods, U.S.A., Inc., was terminated on April 7, 2015, and
November 30, 2015, respectively.  Judgment
Creditor believes another entity, Ajinomoto Foods, is manufacturing and selling
significant amounts of frozen fried rice products to Trader Joe’s.  Judgment Creditor seeks to conduct the
examination of third party Ajinomoto Foods to determine if it has succeeded to
the rights and obligations of the Judgment Debtors.
 
On September 26, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an
Application and Order for Appearance and Examination of Hiroshi Kaho, Chief
Executive Officer of Ajinomoto Foods.  The
third-party examination was scheduled for October 30, 2023.  Judgment Creditor also served Mr. Kaho with a
Civil Subpoena (Duces Tecum) for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents
(the “Subpoena”) for the October 30, 2023 third-party examination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Mr. Kaho filed this Motion for a Protective
Order.  The Motion seeks to vacate the
October 30 examination and quash the subpoena.  Mr. Kaho did not include a notice of motion.
 
The Application and Order for Appearance and Examination came
on for hearing on October 30, 2023.  Mr.
Kaho did not appear.  A bench warrant was
ordered and held until December 13, 2023, and the hearing was continued to the
same date.
 
On November 15, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an Opposition
to the Motion.
 
On November 22, 2023, Mr. Kaho filed a Reply and a Notice of
Errata which provides the omitted notice of motion.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 708.120 provides, in part:  
 
a)     
Upon ex parte application by a
judgment creditor who has a money judgment and proof by the judgment creditor
by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the proper court that a third
person has possession or control of property in which the judgment debtor has
an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two
hundred fifty dollars ($250), the court shall make an order directing the third
person to appear before the court, or before a referee appointed by the court,
at a time and place specified in the order, to answer concerning such property
or debt. The affidavit in support of the judgment creditor's application may be
based on the affiant's information and belief. 


b)     
Not less than 10 days prior to the
date set for the examination, a copy of the order shall be: 
(1) Served personally on the third person. 
(2) Served
personally or by mail on the judgment debtor.
 
c)     
If the property in the third person’s
possession or control in which the judgment debtor has an interest or the debt
owed by the third person to the judgment debtor is described in the affidavit
or application for an order under subdivision (a) in a manner reasonably
adequate to permit it to be identified, service of the order on the third
person creates a lien on the judgment debtor’s interest in the property or on
the debt for a period of one year from the date of the order unless extended or
sooner terminated by the court. 
 
            “Judgment
debtor examinations serve an important function in our judicial system.”  (Jogani v. Jogani (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 158, 172.)  During these
examinations, the judgment creditor is afforded “the widest scope for inquiry
concerning property and business affairs of the debtor ....” (Young v. Keele
(1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1090, 1093.)  “The
object of the proceeding is to compel the judgment debtor to give information
concerning his property; and such judgment-debtor examination is intended to be
summary and factual, according the widest scope for inquiry concerning the
property and business affairs of the judgment debtor. [Citations.] The purpose
of such supplementary proceedings is to discover and reach assets of a judgment
debtor so as to apply them to the satisfaction of the judgment. [Citations.]”  (Liv. Yan (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 56,
66; Kyne v. Eustice (1963) 215 Cal.App.2d 627, 632.) 
 
            “[I]n the
context of postjudgment enforcement proceedings, ‘the use of a subpoena duces
tecum to discover and inspect relevant documents is an accepted practice’” (Shrewsbury
Mgmt., Inc. v. Superior Court (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 1213, 1225.)  “[S]ince the scope of a judgment debtor
examination under section 708.110 has been interpreted to permit a wide scope
of inquiry into the judgment debtor’s finances [cite], it follows that the
scope of a subpoena duces tecum served on a third party that is tethered to the
examination of the judgment debtor ... must be similarly broad.” (Id.)  Thus, ‘when a subpoena duces tecum is tethered
to an examination [of the judgment debtor] under section 708.110, the scope of
discoverable documents must be ‘broadly construed to include matters relating
to the ‘property and business affairs of the judgment debtor’ [citation], ...
and is not limited by section 708.120.”  (Id. at p. 1228.) 
 
            Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, judgment creditors are entitled to an
order directing compliance with the subpoena duces tecum specifying the
documents to be produced at the judgment debtor examination.  Nevertheless, “the court may, on motion of the
person to be examined or on its own motion, make such protective orders as
justice may require.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.200.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
A.  Judicial Notice
 
Judgment Creditor request judicial notice of eight documents.  The unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, 452, subds. (a), (d).)
 
B.  Analysis
 
Mr. Kaho seeks a protective order because Judgment
Creditor’s money judgment has been satisfied.[1]

 
The Court finds issuance of a protective order is
warranted.  First, the money judgment has
been satisfied.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 680.270 defines a money judgment as “that part of a judgment that
requires the payment of money.”  The
amount of any judgment must be computed and stated in “dollars and cents.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 577.5.)  It must be stated with certainty.  (In re Estate of Kampen (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 971, 986; Guess v. Bernhardson (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 820,
831.)  Here, the money judgment is set
forth in paragraph A of the February 28, 2017 Judgment.  Paragraph A provides that judgment is to be
entered in favor of Judgment Creditor against Judgment Debtors in the amount of
$1,400,000.  (2/28/2017 Judgment.)  On June 10, 2019, Judgment Creditor filed an
Acknowledgement of Partial Satisfaction of Judgment in the amount of
$7,476,644.28.  Concurrently, the parties
stipulated that Judgment Creditor’s judgment was partially satisfied, excluding
(1) the ongoing equitable royalty that Defendants owe to Judgment Creditor
accruing after March 31, 2019, (2) any attorney’s fees on appeal that may be
awarded to Judgment Creditor upon a timely filed motion, and (3) such other
motion as Judgment Creditor may file regarding the royalty provision of the
judgment.  The parties do not dispute
that cost, prejudgment interest, and attorney fee awards have all been
satisfied.  As such, Judgment Creditor no
longer has a money judgment.  The
reasonable royalty provision is the only remaining provision of the Judgment.  
 
Further, an award of a reasonable royalty is an injunctive
remedy.  “Under the [California Uniform
Trade Secrets Act], reasonable royalties are allowed in two situations.  In the context of injunctive relief
reasonable royalties may be imposed where it would be unreasonable to enjoin future
use of a misappropriated trade secret. (§ 3426.2, subd. (b).) When calculating
a monetary remedy for the past use of a misappropriated trade secret, a court
“may order” reasonable royalties ‘[i]f neither damages [for actual loss] nor
unjust enrichment caused by misappropriation are provable.’  (§ 3426.3, subd. (b).)”  (Ajaxo Inc. v. E*Trade Fin. Corp. (2010)
187 Cal. App. 4th 1295, 1308.)  
 
Here, the Court imposed a reasonable royalty because it was
unreasonable to enjoin future use of Judgment Creditor’s Trade Secrets.  Paragraph H of the Judgment confirms that the
Court contemplated the imposition of a reasonable royalty as an injunctive
remedy as it references Judgment Debtors’ ability to seek relief from the
royalty provision of the Judgment pursuant to Civil Code section 3426.2. The
plain terms of Civil Code section 3426.2, subdivision (b), in particular, make
clear that a reasonable royalty is not a money judgment as it is imposed when
neither damages nor unjust enrichment are provable.  In other words, a reasonable royalty is
imposed because the damages or unjust enrichment cannot be stated with
certainty.  As an injunctive remedy, the
reasonable royalty provision of the Judgment is not a money judgment.  Judgment Creditor does not specifically address
this argument distinguishing reasonable royalties from money judgments.  
 
Even if a reasonable royalty may be considered a money
judgment, a protective order is warranted because Judgment Creditor does not
satisfy Section 708.120, subdivision (a). 
That section authorizes a third-party examination when “the judgment
creditor [shows] by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the proper
court that a third person has possession or control of property in which the
judgment debtor has an interest or is indebted to the judgment debtor in an
amount exceeding two hundred fifty dollars.” 
Here, Judgment Creditor filed an Affidavit for Order for Appearance and
Examination that does not furnish any evidence to show Mr. Kaho personally
possesses property belonging to the Judgment Debtors or that Mr. Kaho is
personally indebted to the Judgment Debtors in an amount exceeding $250.  The Affidavit is deficient.[2]

 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
            Accordingly,
the Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED.  The Third-Party Examination
of Hiroshi Kaho scheduled for December 13, 2023 is VACATED.  The request to quash the subpoena issued to
Mr. Kaho is GRANTED.
            Moving
Party to give notice.  
Dated:   December 1,
2023                             




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 


