  Case Number:  21PSCV00337    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Xue Ji’s Application for
an Order for Sale of Dwelling
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Xue Ji’s Application for an Order for Sale
of Dwelling is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
On
April 29, 2021, Plaintiff Xue Ji filed a complaint against Defendants Zhili
Song and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2)
breach of contract, and (3) unjust enrichment.
On
November 18, 2022, the Court entered judgment in favor of Ji against Song.
On May 8,
2024, Ji filed the present application as an ex parte request. On May 9, 2024, the
Court denied the ex parte request and set an OSC Re: Why an Order to Sell
Dwelling Should Not Be Made for June 24, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Ji
applies for an order selling Song’s property in West Covina. For the following
reasons, the Court DENIES Ji’s application.
An application for an order for sale must: (1) be made under oath;
(2) describe the dwelling; (3) state whether or not the records of the county
tax assessor indicate there is a homeowner’s or disabled veteran’s exemption;
(4) state whether the dwelling is a homestead, the amount of the homestead
exemption, and whether the records of the county recorder indicate that a
homestead declaration under Article 5 has been recorded by the judgment debtor
or his or her spouse; (6) contain a statement of the amount of liens or
encumbrances, the name of the person claiming the lien or encumbrance, and the
address of such person as used by the county recorder for the return of the
instrument creating the lien; and (7) contain a statement regarding whether or
not the judgment is based on a consumer debt as defined by Section 699.730, and
if it is, a statement regarding whether the judgment was secured by the
debtor’s principal place of residence at the time the debt was incurred. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 704.760, subds. (a)-(d).)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 704.770, subdivision (a) states:
“Upon the filing of the application by the judgment
creditor, the court shall set a time and place for hearing and order the
judgment debtor to show cause why an order for sale should not be made in
accordance with the application.  The time set for hearing shall be not
later than 45 days after the application is filed or such later time as the
court orders upon a showing of good cause.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.770, subd.
(a).)
At
least thirty days before the OSC, the judgment creditor must do the following:
“(1) Serve on the judgment debtor a copy of the order
to show cause, a copy of the application of the judgment creditor, and a copy
of the notice of the hearing in the form prescribed by the Judicial Council.
Service shall be made personally or by mail. 
(2) Personally serve a copy of each document listed in
paragraph (1) on an occupant of the dwelling or, if there is no occupant
present at the time service is attempted, post a copy of each document in a
conspicuous place at the dwelling.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.770, subd. (b).)
In
this case, Ji’s process server served Song with substitute service on May 14,
2024, by serving copies of the present application and OSC on Claire Liu, an
occupant of the West Covina property. Ji’s process server then mailed copies of
the present application and OSC to Song on May 23, 2024. But, Code of Civil
Procedure section 704.770, subdivision (b) does not allow the judgment debtor
to be served with substitute notice and only allows service to be done
personally or by mail. When service is conducted by mail, the recipient is
given an additional five days to respond when the recipient’s mailing address
is within California. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013, subd. (a).)
Here,
while Ji’s process server mailed notice to Song on May 23, 2024, this was less
than thirty-five days before the hearing date of June 24, 2024. Because Ji did
not timely serve notice of the present application and OSC as required by code,
Ji’s application is DENIED without prejudice.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court
DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Ji’s application for an order for sale of
dwelling.