 Case Number:  23PSCV03555    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants E*TRADE  Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to  Dismiss this Case or in the Alternative, Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration Respondent: Jose Guzman  Salcedo Defendants  E*TRADE Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’  Complaint Respondent:  NO OPPOSITION Defendant Bank of America,  N.A.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint Respondent: Jose Guzman  Salcedo TENTATIVE RULING Defendants  E*TRADE Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’  Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant Bank of America,  N.A.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendants E*TRADE  Securities LLC and John Edward Bersin’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED  and the present action is STAYED pending the completion of arbitration. BACKGROUND On  November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Jose Guzman Salcedo and Rafael R. Salcedo filed a  complaint against Defendants Franchise Tax Board (FTB), E*TRADE Securities  Inc., E*TRADE Securities LLC, E*TRADE Clearing LLC (E*TRADE Clearing), E*TRADE  Financial Corp., E*TRADE Financial LLC, E*TRADE Group Inc. (E*TRADE), TIR  Holdings Limited (TIR Holdings), John Edward Bersin, Michael D. Lane, Bank of  America, N.A., (Bank of America) and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) general negligence against the FTB, (2) general negligence  against E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Financial Corp., (3) fraud against  E*TRADE Securities LLC, (4) intentional tort against Bersin, (5) intentional  tort against Lane, (6) negligence against Lane, (7) negligence and fraud against  Bank of America by Guzman Salcedo, and (8) negligence against Bank of America  by Salcedo. On  February 16, 2024, Bank of America filed the present demurrer to Guzman Salcedo  and Salcedo’s Complaint. Prior to filing the demurrer, Bank of America’s  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Guzman Salcedo and Salcedo. (Aldworth  Decl., ¶ 2.) On  February 29, 2024, E*TRADE Securities LLC and  Bersin (collectively, E*TRADE Defendants) filed the present demurrer and motion  to compel arbitration. Prior  to filing on February 23, the E*TRADE Defendants’ counsel attempted to meet and  confer telephonically with Guzman Salcedo and Salcedo but was unable to get in  contact with them. (Stroud Decl., ¶ 2.) On April 18, 2024, the Court held a hearing on  the present motions. While the Court first considered and issued a tentative  ruling on the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, the E*TRADE  Defendants requested the Court first rule on their demurrer and consider the  motion to compel arbitration in the alternative. The Court agreed to the  requested continuance. At the same hearing, Guzman Salcedo agreed to dismiss  E*TRADE and E*TRADE Clearing from the present action. A hearing on the present motions, case management  conference, OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service, and OSC Re: Dismissal are  set for June 24, 2024. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Bank of America requests the court  take judicial notice of court filings in a separate action brought by Guzman Salcedo in  San Bernardino County Superior Court and the customs of commercial banks in  providing their customers with monthly statements. Bank of America also  requests the court take judicial notice of records of the California Secretary  of State. With regards to the court filings and California Secretary of State  records, the court GRANTS Bank of America’s request as the  court may take judicial of state court records and executive acts. (Evid. Code,  § 452, subd. (c), (d).) As to the customs of commercial banks, the court GRANTS Bank  of America’s request as the court may take judicial of notice of facts of  common knowledge that are not reasonably the subject of dispute, and the court  agrees it is common knowledge and indisputable that commercial banks provide  statements of account to their customers. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (g).) DEMURRERS The  E*TRADE Defendants demur to Guzman Salcedo’s second cause of action (­negligence),  third cause of action (­fraud), and fourth cause of action (­intentional tort).  Bank of America demurs to Guzman Salcedo’s seventh cause of action (­negligence  and fraud) and Salcedo’s eighth cause of action (negligence). For the following  reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrers without leave to amend. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) E*TRADE Defendants’ Demurrer The  E*TRADE Defendants argue Guzman Salcedo’s second cause of action for ­negligence,  third cause of action for ­fraud, and fourth cause of action for ­intentional  tort fail because they are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. In  the alternative, they argue these causes of action are insufficiently pled. The  court agrees. Legal Standard “A  demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may  be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the  statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and  affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the  complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn  & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.) The statute of  limitations for intentional or negligent injury caused to another is two years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) The statute of limitations for fraud is three years  from “the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the  fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) “In  order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action,  ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred  without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show  (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made  earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.’” (Fox v. Ethicon  Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808, quoting McKelvey v.  Boeing North American, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 151, 160, disapproved on  another ground in Lopez v. Sony Electronics, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 627,  633, fn. 3.) Discussion In  this case, Guzman Salcedo’s negligence and fraud claims against E*TRADE  Securities arise out of two alleged incidents that occurred in 2002 and 2005. On  March 8, 2002, Guzman Salcedo alleges E*TRADE Securities executed trades in  Guzman Salcedo’s account without Guzman Salcedo’s consent. (Complaint, p.  19-20.) On March 10, 2002, Guzman Salcedo alleges their unauthorized activity  damaged Guzman Salcedo when law enforcement accused Guzman Salcedo of engaging  in money laundering. (Complaint, p. 19-20.) And in 2005, Guzman Salcedo alleges  E*TRADE Securities filed false or fraudulent tax forms. (Complaint, p. 19-20.) Guzman  Salcedo allegedly discovered these false filings on June 30, 2021, when Guzman  Salcedo received tax records that Guzman Salcedo had requested on June 3, 2021.  (Complaint, p. 19-20.) Guzman Salcedo also alleges E*TRADE Securities  negligently or fraudulently closed Guzman Salcedo’s accounts in 2005.  (Complaint, p. 19.) E*TRADE  Securities argues these causes of action are time-barred because they began to  accrue in 2002 and 2005 which are both more than three years before Guzman  Salcedo filed the present action on November 17, 2023. (E*TRADE Demurrer, p. 7:4-15.)  And while the Complaint refers to the discovery rule throughout, the court  finds that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to invoke it.  Although the Complaint does allege Guzman Salcedo discovered E*TRADE  Securities’ allegedly false tax filings in June 2021, Guzman Salcedo fails to  allege when E*TRADE Securities’ other actions were discovered. Furthermore, the  Complaint fails to allege any facts establishing why Guzman Salcedo was unable  to discover these alleged negligent or fraudulent actions earlier. Thus, as presently  alleged, the court finds that these causes of action are time-barred. As  to Bersin, the Complaint alleges Bersin engaged in an unspecified intentional  tort by refusing to give Guzman Salcedo access to documents since September 2,  2022. (Complaint, p. 21.) The Complaint also alleges Bersin had been avoiding  communications with Guzman Salcedo and instructing other employees to not  communicate with Guzman Salcedo. (Complaint, p. 21.) The Complaint further  alleges Bersin “orchestrate[d] a group” to keep Guzman Salcedo from E*TRADE  Financial Corp.’s headquarters and employees. (Complaint, p. 21.) Last, the  Complaint alleges Bersin hired another defendant, Lane, to intimidate and to threaten  Guzman Salcedo. (Complaint, p. 21.) While the dates for a majority of these  incidents are not provided, the Court notes Bersin’s alleged refusal to provide  documents since September 2, 2022, would fall within the three-year statute of  limitations for intentional torts and would not be time-barred. However,  it is unclear what cause of action Guzman Salcedo is alleging as “intentional  tort” is not a cause of action but rather a classification for actions that  involve intentional harm, rather than negligent harm. The court may sustain a  demurrer to a Complaint when the subject pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or  unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f); Beresford  Neighborhood Assn. v. City of San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.)  Because it is unclear what cause of action Guzman Salcedo is bringing for the  harm alleged, the Court finds this cause of action is uncertain, ambiguous, and  unintelligible. Accordingly,  the E*TRADE Defendants’ demurrer to these causes of action is SUSTAINED. While the Court would  ordinarily grant Guzman  Salcedo leave to amend the Complaint, the Court declines to do so as such leave  would be moot given the Court will also grant the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion to  compel arbitration of these claims below. Bank of America’s Demurrer Bank  of America contends Guzman Salcedo’s seventh cause of action for negligence and  fraud and Salcedo’s eighth cause of action for negligence are (1) barred by the  doctrine of res judicata, (2) untimely, and (3) insufficiently pled. The court  agrees they are time-barred and insufficiently pled. In Guzman Salcedo’s  seventh cause of action, Guzman Salcedo alleges the following  against Bank of America. First, Guzman Salcedo alleges Bank of  America was negligent in closing savings accounts on July 6, 2002. (Complaint,  p. 26, ¶ 1.) Second, Guzman Salcedo alleges Bank of America  committed fraud in fabricating a money laundering and fraud case  against Guzman Salcedo on July 10, 2002. (Complaint, p. 26, ¶  2-3.) Third, Guzman Salcedo alleges Bank of America committed  fraud and was negligent in distributing funds to Catherine Lombardo on February  6, 2003. (Complaint, p. 26, ¶ 4.) In Salcedo’s eighth cause of action, Salcedo alleges  the same allegations as Guzman Salcedo and  claims Salcedo discovered the grounds for these claims on July 5,  2023, while reviewing family bank records. (Complaint, p. 28, ¶ 1.) As  noted above with regards to the E*TRADE Defendants’ demurrer, the statute of  limitations for negligence claims and fraud claims are two and three years,  respectively. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 335.1, 338, subd. (d).) Because Guzman  Salcedo’s allegations involve conduct by Bank of America that took place more  than three years before the present Complaint was filed on November 17, 2023, the  court finds that Guzman Salcedo’s causes of action are untimely. To the extent  Guzman Salcedo suggests the discovery rule saves Guzman Salcedo’s claims, the  court does not find this argument persuasive since Guzman Salcedo had notice of  Bank of America’s alleged actions in 2012 when Guzman Salcedo brought an action  against Bank of America for the same issues. (RJN 1, Ex. A.) Additionally,  Salcedo lacks standing to bring the eighth cause of action for negligence as  Salcedo is not the real party in interest. Because “[e]very action must be  prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by  statute” (Code Civ. Proc., § 367), “[a] party who is not the real party in  interest lacks standing to sue.” (Redevelopment Agency of San Diego v. San  Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 912, 920.) “A real  party in interest ordinarily is defined as the person possessing the right sued  upon by reason of the substantive law.” (Killian v. Millard (1991) 228  Cal.App.3d 1601, 1605.) In  this case, the Complaint alleges the bank accounts at issue where “family  savings accounts.” (Complaint, p. 28.) The Complaint further alleges the family  savings accounts were for college funds and that the Salcedo did not know the  accounts existed because Salcedo was a kid. (Complaint, p. 28.) A bank  generally only owes a duty of care to its customers or account holders “absent  extraordinary and specific facts.” (Software Design & Application, Ltd.  v. Hoefer & Arnett, Inc. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 472, 479.) Here, Salcedo  cannot maintain a negligence action against Bank of America without  establishing Bank of America owed Salcedo a duty of care (Leslie G. v. Perry  & Associates (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472, 480).  Since Salcedo is not the real party in  interest as Salcedo is not the alleged owner of the accounts at issue, Bank of  America owed no duty of care to Salcedo. Accordingly,  the Court SUSTAINS Bank of America’s demurrer to these causes of action without leave to amend. MOTION TO COMPEL  ARBITRATION The E*TRADE Defendants move  to compel Guzman Salcedo to arbitration pursuant to an arbitration agreement. For  the following reasons, the court GRANTS the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy  thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such  grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.)¿ The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion The E*TRADE  Defendants argue Guzman Salcedo’s action is subject to an arbitration provision  that Guzman Salcedo agreed to when Guzman Salcedo applied for an account with  E*TRADE Securities LLC. On May 9, 2002, Guzman Salcedo submitted an online  account application to E*TRADE Securities LLC that expressly incorporated a  customer agreement. (Bersin Decl., ¶ 2-3, Ex. A, B.) The customer agreement  included an arbitration provision that provides as follows in relevant part: “I agree  to resolve by binding arbitration any controversy that may arise between  E*TRADE Securities or its affiliates and me relating in any way to my  relationship with E*TRADE Securities, any Account held with E*TRADE Securities,  or any service provided by E*TRADE Securities to me. This arbitration agreement  includes any controversy involving (a) transactions of any kind made on my  behalf by or through E*TRADE Securities, or (b) the performance, construction  or breach of this Agreement or any other written agreement between E*TRADE  Securities and me. . . . This arbitration provision will be enforced and  interpreted exclusively in accordance with applicable federal laws of the  United States, including the Federal Arbitration Act. . . . ” (Bersin Decl.,  Ex. B, ¶ 7(a).) Guzman  Salcedo alleges two causes of action against E*TRADE Securities LLC. In the  second cause of action for general negligence, Guzman Salcedo alleges E*TRADE  Securities LLC was negligent in selling Guzman Salcedo’s stocks, closing Guzman  Salcedo’s account, and failing to provide records. (Complaint, p. 19.) In the  third cause of action for fraud, Guzman Salcedo alleges E*TRADE Securities LLC  filed false tax forms for Guzman Salcedo’s account and purchased and sold  stocks without Guzman Salcedo’s consent. (Complaint, p. 20.) Because these  causes of action arose from Guzman Salcedo’s relationship and account with  E*TRADE Securities LLC, they are subject to the arbitration provision in  E*TRADE Securities LLC’s customer agreement. While the  E*TRADE Defendants acknowledge Bersin was not a signatory of the customer  agreement that included the arbitration provision, they allege Bersin can  enforce the arbitration provision as an agent of E*TRADE Securities LLC. “[A] defendant may enforce the arbitration agreement, ‘when  a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration  agreement.’” (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788,  quoting Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.) In the fourth  cause of action for intentional tort against Bersin, Guzman Salcedo alleges  Bersin prevented Guzman Salcedo from receiving and obtaining unspecified  documents and avoided communications about reports and trades by E*TRADE  Securities LLC. (Complaint, p. 21.) Guzman Salcedo also alleges elsewhere that Bersin  was blocking Guzman Salcedo’s access to E*TRADE records as E*TRADE Securities  LLC’s general counsel. (Complaint, p. 16, ¶ 7.) As this cause of action also  arises from Guzman Salcedo’s relationship and account with E*TRADE Securities  LLC and involves allegations that Bersin was acting as E*TRADE Securities LLC’s  agent in refusing to provide records, it is also subject to the arbitration  provision at issue. Therefore, the court finds that  the E*TRADE Defendants adequately established the existence and applicability  of a binding arbitration provision. As a result, the burden of proof now shifts  to Guzman Salcedo to establish any defenses to the enforcement of this  provision. In opposition, Guzman Salcedo first argues the arbitration provision  is invalid because the logo at the top of the online account application did  not exist in 2002. This argument fails for two reasons. First, Guzman Salcedo  fails to provide any evidence in support of this claim. Second, even if Guzman  Salcedo is correct, the online account application specifically states “[t]his  section is for E*TRADE Securities use only.” (Bersin Decl., Ex. A.) Guzman Salcedo also argues  E*TRADE Securities LLC did not exist at the time the online application was  submitted on May 9, 2002. But Guzman Salcedo’s own evidence contradicts this  claim. While Guzman Salcedo provides a copy of an LLC registration that shows E*TRADE  Securities LLC registered as a California LLC on July 29, 2002, the application  states E*TRADE Securities was formed on May 2, 2002 in Delaware. (Guzman  Salcedo Opp. Decl., e.p. 5.) Last, Guzman Salcedo argues the arbitration  provision is invalid because the initial online account application reportedly  has erroneous birthdates and account numbers. But Guzman Salcedo fails to  support these claims with any evidence. And Guzman Salcedo does not explicitly  deny completing the application and agreeing to the customer agreement that  contained the arbitration provision. Accordingly, in light of Guzman Salcedo’s  failure to establish a defense to the enforcement of the arbitration provision  at issue, the Court GRANTS the E*TRADE Defendants’ motion. The E*TRADE Defendants also  request that the court stay or dismiss the present action. When a matter before  a court is compelled to arbitration pursuant to the FAA, the court “shall on  application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until such  arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement.” (9  U.S.C., § 3.) But when such a matter involves other litigants who are not  parties to the arbitration, a state court’s power to stay the action as to  those other parties is subject to the state’s procedural rules. (Moses H.  Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 20, fn. 23  [“In some cases, of course, it may be advisable to stay litigation among the  non-arbitrating parties pending the outcome of the arbitration. That decision  is one left to the district court (or to the state trial court under applicable  state procedural rules) as a matter of its discretion to control its docket.”].) In California, a court may  limit the stay to the issue submitted to arbitration if it is severable. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1281.4; see Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976)  17 Cal.3.d 699, 714 [“[T]he trial court is not required to stay all proceedings  against the defendants who are not entitled to arbitration; the court may, in  its discretion, sever the action as to the [other defendants] or limit any stay  to those issues subject to arbitration.”].) But “[i]n order to avail oneself of  this remedy, a party is required to bring an appropriate motion and to prove  that his or her claim is independent from the matter in arbitration.” (Federal  Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1375; see also  Mattson Technology, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th  1149, 1161 [“The party seeking severance under Code of Civil Procedure section  1281.4 has the burden of proving its claim is independent from the arbitrable  matter.”].) Here, no party in the present action has sought such a remedy.  Accordingly, the Court STAYS the entire action pending the arbitration  of Guzman Salcedo’s claims against the E*TRADE Defendants. CONCLUSION Based  on the foregoing, the E*TRADE Defendants and Bank of America’s demurrers to Guzman  Salcedo and Salcedo’s Complaint are SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Furthermore, the E*TRADE  Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED and the present  action is STAYED pending the completion of arbitration.