  Case Number:  23SMCV04997    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Zanou v. High Horse Malibu, LLC, et al., Case No. 23SMCV04997
Hearing date March 28, 2024
Defendants High Horse Malibu, Terkleson & Szczepanik’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint 
 
Plaintiff Zanou sustained injuries after being thrown from a
horse after defendant High Horse’s employee lifted the horse’s leg while
plaintiff was on the horse. The First Amended Complaint alleges (1) negligence;
(2) premises liability; and (3) negligence supervision. All defendants demur
and move to strike requested attorneys’ fees. 
 
Defendants’ Demurrer 
 “A¿demurrer¿tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” Ivanoff v.
Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725. The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” Id. The Court “assume[s] the truth of the
properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred
from those expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been
taken.” Ivanoff, supra. “Each element must be pleaded with particularity
so as to apprise the defendant of the specific grounds for the charge and
enable the court to determine whether there is any basis for the cause of
action, although less specificity is required if the defendant would likely
have greater knowledge of the facts than the plaintiff.” City of Industry v.
City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.
 
Defendants argue
plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege conduct by defendants Terkleson and
Szczepanik. The FAC alleges each defendant owned, operated, managed,
maintained, supervised, or otherwise controlled the subject premises (FAC paras.
6, 8), owed a duty of care and breached that duty when the employee caused the
horse to be spooked and gallop while plaintiff was on the horse. FAC ¶11- 13. Each
cause of action is alleged as to each defendant. The FAC sufficiently alleges
that each defendant owed a duty of care and breached that duty, which resulted
in damages to plaintiff. OVERRULED. 
First Cause of Action for Negligence
 
“To state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must
allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant
breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's
damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 62.
 
Defendants argue under the doctrine of primary assumption of
the risk, defendants did not owe a duty of care to plaintiff, who was
participating in a recreational activity. Moreover, defendants contend there
are no specific factual allegations that defendants did anything to increase
the inherent risks of horseback riding. 
 
Under the
doctrine of primary assumption of the risk, “in certain situations the nature
of the activity at issue is such that the defendant does not owe a legal duty
to the plaintiff to act with due care.” McGarry v. Sax (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 983, 998. “The doctrine of primary assumption of risk is most
frequently applied to sporting activities where ‘conditions or conduct that
otherwise might be viewed as dangerous often are an integral part of the sport
itself.’” Id. at 999. However, whether the doctrine applies depends on
the nature of the activity and the parties’ relationship to it. Id. Furthermore,
“defendants…generally do have a duty not to increase the risk of harm beyond
what is inherent in the sport” or activity. 
Plaintiff was
engaged in horseback riding, which is a recreational activity with inherent
risks, including horses being startled or spooked. However, plaintiff alleges
defendants increased the inherent risks of riding a horse by lifting the
horse’s leg while plaintiff was on the horse. FAC paras. 13-14. This is
sufficient on demurrer. OVERRULED.
Second Cause of Action for Premises Liability
 
To state a cause of action for premises liability, plaintiff
must allege defendants owned/leased/controlled the premises, were negligent in
the use or maintenance of the premises, harm and causation. See, e.g. CACI
1000.
 
The FAC, para. 19 alleges defendants failed to control the
horses and “knew or should have known” that a guest would ride a horse and “a
High Horse Malibu employee would try to pull an object from one of the horse’s
hoofs, in a dangerous, hazardous, improper or otherwise imprudent manner, while
the Plaintiff was sitting atop one of their horses.” 
 
Plaintiff does not allege that the defendants were negligent
in the use or maintenance of the property itself. Rather, plaintiff alleges the
“property” that was not controlled was the horse and/or that the actions of the
employee in lifting the horse’s leg was negligent. This restates the negligence
claim; it does not allege a separate premises liability claim. SUSTAINED. 
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence – Negligent Supervision
 
“To establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show
that a person in a supervisorial position over the actor had prior knowledge of
the actor's propensity to do the bad act.” Z.V. v. County of Riverside
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902.
 
Plaintiff alleges defendants observed the employee’s
behavior and had the ability to train and supervise the employee and “failed to
supervise or exercise reasonable care to prevent Defendant Employee’s conduct…”.
FAC ¶ 22, 27-28. OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Attorney’s Fees
 
Defendants move to strike the request for attorney fees
(FAC, p. 10, prayer, para. 4), as the FAC fails to identify any statutory or contract
provision for such. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021, “[e]xcept
as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and
mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the
agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or
proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” Plaintiff
does not allege that a contract or statute provides for attorney’s fees.
GRANTED. 