 Case Number:  24STCV10717    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 12, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arias Sanguinetti Wang & Team LLP,
et al. v. Teketa Bellamy, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV10717            
 
MOTION
TO DEPOSIT FUNDS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Arias Sanguinetti Wang and Team, LLP; Law
Offices of Hamed Yazdanpanah & Associates
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 11/8/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action in interpleader that was filed on April 29, 2024.
Plaintiffs represented Defendant Bellamy in a personal injury lawsuit which
resulted in a settlement of $35,000. After the settlement and payment of a
Medicare lien, various medical providers and lienholders asserted competing
claims on the remaining settlement funds.
 
Plaintiffs move to deposit the
settlement funds and be discharged. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deposit
Funds is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are directed to deposit the disputed funds with the Clerk of Court within 20
days of this order. Plaintiffs will be discharged from liability upon filing
and service of proof of deposit.
 
            Said
funds are to be held until further order of this Court. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for a restraining order is DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move to deposit the
disputed settlement funds and be discharged. Plaintiffs also request an order
restraining the Defendants from pursuing any other proceeding affecting the
rights and obligations as between the parties to the interpleader.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “Any
person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom double or
multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which
are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may
bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate
their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386(b).) “When a person may be
subject to conflicting claims for money or property, the person may bring an
interpleader action to compel the claimants to litigate their claims among
themselves. (Id.) Once the person admits liability and deposits the
money with the court, he or she is discharged from liability and freed from the
obligation of participating in the litigation between the claimants.
[Citations.] The purpose of interpleader is to prevent a multiplicity of suits
and double vexation. [Citation.]” (City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) “In an interpleader action, the court initially
determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds; if that right is
sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires the defendants to
interplead and litigate their claims to the funds. Upon an admission of
liability and deposit of monies with the court, the plaintiff may then be
discharged from liability and dismissed from the interpleader action.
[Citations.] The effect of such an order is to preserve the fund, discharge the
stakeholder from further liability, and to keep the fund in the court's custody
until the rights of potential claimants of the monies can be adjudicated.
[Citations.] Thus, the interpleader proceeding is traditionally viewed as two
lawsuits in one. The first dispute is between the stakeholder and the claimants
to determine the right to interplead the funds. The second dispute to be
resolved is who is to receive the interpleaded funds. [Citations.]” (Dial
800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 42–43.)
 
Deposit & Discharge
 
            Plaintiffs
in this action seek to deposit $31,849.11 in disputed funds with the Court and
be discharged from liability as to those funds pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 386. 
 
            Plaintiffs
state that they represented Defendant Teketa Bellamy in a personal injury
lawsuit against non-parties Albertson’s Companies, Inc., Islay Investments,
L.P., and Todd Alvarez in the Superior Court of California for the County of
Santa Barbara, Case No. 19CV05830. (Declaration of Travis M. Daniels ISO Mot. ¶
2.) On October 19, 2021, the personal injury lawsuit was settled for $35,000. (Id.
¶ 4.) The settlement funds were deposited into Plaintiff Arias Sanguinetti Wang
& Team, LLP’s client trust account. (Id.) The settlement proceeds
were used to pay off a Medicare lien in the amount of $3,150.89, leaving a
balance of $31,859.11. (¶ 5.) Since the settlement, Plaintiffs have received
claims from 15 medical providers and lien holders asserting rights to the
settlement proceeds, totaling $149,651.13. (¶¶ 7-8.) Defendant Bellamy also
asserts a claim to $3,000 of the remaining proceeds. (¶ 9.) Plaintiffs
expressly waived any rights to reimbursement for fees and costs for services in
the underlying lawsuit. (Daniels Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs also state that they
are unable to determine the validity of the conflicting demands. (Id. ¶
11.) 
 
            As no party
has opposed this motion, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated that
the disputed funds of $31,849.11 should be deposited with the Court and
Plaintiffs discharged from liability as to those funds.
 
Order Restraining Further Action
 
            Plaintiffs
also requests that the Court enter an order pursuant to subdivision (f) of
section 386 restraining all parties from instituting or further prosecuting any
other proceeding affecting the rights and obligations as between the parties to
the interpleader. As Plaintiffs do not explain why such an order is necessary
in their moving papers, the Court declines to impose such an order at this time.
This ruling is without prejudice to a subsequent motion for a restraining order
under Code of Civil Procedure section 386(f) demonstrating good cause for that
relief. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deposit Funds is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are directed to deposit the disputed funds with the Clerk of Court within 20
days of this order. Plaintiffs will be discharged from liability upon filing
and service of proof of deposit.
 
            Said
funds are to be held until further order of this Court. 
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for a restraining order is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 12,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 