  Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 2, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant M S International, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Defendant M S International, Inc.
demurs to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment and moves to
strike portions of the Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the
allegation “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.”
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendant M S International Inc.
demurs to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Lisa
Taylor states that the parties met and conferred electronically on August 19,
2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration of Lisa
G Taylor ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant has thus satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Global Stone Trading,
Inc. demurs to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” 
 
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1198.)
 
            First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to allege with adequate specificity that
Defendant had a duty to disclose the properties of its products, or that it
intentionally concealed that information from Plaintiff. As to each element of
a claim for fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs allege that:
 
(1)  
Defendant concealed the toxic properties of its
products (¶¶ 460-466, 576), several of which was identified in the Complaint.
(¶ 35 p. 15.)
 
(2)  
 Defendants had a
duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products because of the Hazard
Communication Standard, California common law, their “knowledge of material
facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were not accessible
to Plaintiff,” because they “made representations regarding their stone
products, but failed to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the
facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made likely to mislead
Plaintiff,” and because they had a transactional relationship with Defendant,
based on their sale of toxic products to Plaintiff’s employers, with whom
Plaintiff was in privity (¶¶ 402-406), 
 
(3)  
Defendant “concealed said toxic hazards from Plaintiff
. . . so that Plaintiff . . . would use Defendants’ stone products” (¶ 407), 
 
(4)  
 Plaintiff “was
unaware of the toxic and fibrogenic [hazards] of Defendants’ stone products and
would not have acted as he did had he known of said concealed hazards (¶467),
and 
 
(5)  
As a result of Defendant’s concealment of the toxic
hazards of its stone products, Plaintiff was exposed to Defendant’s toxic
hazards and has suffered “serious injuries and disease” as a result, including
“silicosis, progressive massive fibrosis and other related and consequential
medical conditions (¶ 469)
 
These allegations are sufficient to allege a
fraudulent concealment claim against Defendant. (Jones, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at 1195 [plaintiff’s complaint is not “unacceptably speculative if
a plaintiff has not specifically identified which toxin contained in a
particular product caused the alleged injury or has sued the manufacturers of
multiple products, alleging all of them contained toxins that were substantial
factors in causing his injury.”) Moreover, as the California Supreme Court
noted in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,
the remedy for an improperly speculative pleading is provided by Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7(b), which permits the imposition of sanctions on an
attorney who is found to have deliberately filed a products liability suit without
a well-founded belief in the truth of a particular allegation. (Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal. 4th at p. 82; see also Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at 1196.) 
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendant also demurs to the fourth
cause of action on the ground that it is uncertain.
 
"A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures."  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  "A demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond--i.e., he or she cannot reasonable determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him
or her."  (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) "The objection of uncertainty does
not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts."  (Brea v.
McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.)
 
As should
be apparent from Defendant’s own arguments and the Court’s examination of the
allegations raised, the Complaint is not so vague that it is impossible for
Defendant to identify the claims to which it must respond. The Court therefore
finds that the Complaint is not uncertain. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint 
 
Defendant M S International, Inc. also moves to strike portions of
the Complaint pertaining to punitive damages, as well as an allegation relating
to “[o]ther products
to be identified during discovery.”
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Lisa
Taylor states that the parties met and conferred electronically on August 19,
2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration of Lisa
G Taylor ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant has thus satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligation.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant M S International, Inc. moves to strike portions of the
Complaint pertaining to punitive damages sought on the basis of fraud, as
alleged in the fourth cause of action. Defendant also moves to strike an
allegation relating to “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.”
 
For the reasons discussed above as to the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiff has sufficiently pled fraud, as that term is defined in Civil
Code section 3294(c)(3) to include an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention of
depriving a person of property or legal rights.  
 
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs’ allegation of “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the
course of discovery” should be stricken.   (See Complaint p. 15:27.) 
 
Defendant is correct that this allegation is inconsistent
with the requirements of Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 71, the leading case on pleading requirements in toxic tort cases.
That case requires Plaintiffs to “identify each product that allegedly caused
the injury.” (Id. at 80.) If Plaintiff had alleged only that Defendant
had manufactured something that caused the injury and that they would identify
that “something” during discovery, that would be inadequate. It is only the
naming of a specific product that saves Plaintiff’s allegations against this
Defendant, and referring to other products “to be identified during discovery”
is improper. 
 
By analogy, when seeking to amend
a complaint, “a vague suggestion that additional facts might be uncovered
through discovery is insufficient to justify allowing plaintiffs further leave
to amend their complaint.” (AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1020.) If that type of suggestion is inadequate to justify leave to amend, it
must be inadequate at the outset.  
 
In so ruling, the Court
emphasizes this does not mean that Plaintiff shall be forever barred from
identifying additional injury-causing products during the course of further
discovery which were not listed in his Complaint. “If discovery and
investigation develop factual grounds justifying a timely amendment to a
pleading, leave to amend must be liberally granted.” (Mabie v. Hyatt
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 581, 596.) Plaintiff is also not categorically precluded
from pursuing evidence of other injury-causing products. The Discovery Act
specifically permits discovery “reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)  Moreover, any “doubts
as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.”
(Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31
Cal.3d 785, 790.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the allegation “[o]ther
stone products to be identified during the course of discovery.” Leave to amend
may be granted in the future if discovery reveals that an amendment to list
another product or products is justified. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the
allegation “[o]ther stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.”
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 2,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 