 Case Number:  21STCV28754    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28754




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Chen Family Trust 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 4, 2021, Plaintiff Tatyana Ivanova
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Xavier Ibarra, Chen Family
Trust, Co-Trustees Jack M Chen and Shirley Chen, La Verne-Live Oak Homeowners
Association, Inc., and Does 1 to 10 for strict liability, negligence, and
premises liability surrounding a dog bite. Plaintiff alleges that on September
23, 2020, she was walking in a public area of the La Verne Live Oak Community,
when Xavier Ibarra’s (“Ibarra”) dog, a Great Dane, bit her. (Complaint ¶ 2, 9.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Chen Family Trust, with Co-Trustees Jack M. Chen
and Shirley Chen, owned the property where Ibarra resided with his dog. (Id.
¶ 7.) 
 
Against Chen Family Trust, Plaintiff asserts
causes of action for strict liability under Civil Code section 3342 and
negligence-premises liability. 
 
Defendant Chen Family Trust (“Defendant”) in pro per, now moves
for summary judgment, arguing that it had no actual knowledge of the subject
dog, or that it had dangerous propensities. No opposition has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Generally, a trustee or executor
who is not a lawyer cannot appear in pro per in legal proceedings to protect
assets of the estate or trust “because in this capacity such trustee would be
representing interests of others and would therefore be engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law.” (Ziegler v. Nickel¿(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
545, 548.) However, a trustee who is not a lawyer may represent the trust in
pro per if they are the sole trustee, the trust’s sole creator, and the
beneficiary. (Aulisio v. Bancroft¿(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1516, 1524
[“[A] trustee litigating on behalf of a trust in which he as the settlor has
designated himself the sole beneficiary is not representing the interests of
others. The interest he represents is his own.”].)          
 
On August 5, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant’s answer based on the fact it
was filed in pro per, without a licensed attorney. The Court had also noted
this defect in an earlier motion to dismiss filed by Defendant. (See Min.
Order, 11/9/23.) As a result, the Court ordered Defendant to file an answer
with licensed counsel within 30 days. (Min. Order, 8/5/24.) The docket for this
case does not show that Defendant has filed an answer. Additionally, the motion
does not address the propriety of filing this motion without licensed
representation.[1] 
 
Nevertheless, even if Defendant
could properly file this motion, it would be denied since it was not served
within the minimum statutory timeframe. 
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Notice of the
motion and supporting papers must be served on all other parties at least 75
days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(2).)¿¿If
served electronically, the minimum 75-day period is increased by two court
days. (Id.) Additionally, the motion must be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id.,
subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Therefore, here, the motion needed to be electronically
served by June 24, 2024 (75 calendar days, plus two court days, before the
September 9, 2024 hearing date). The proof of service filed June 28, 2024 shows
this motion was served electronically on Plaintiff’s counsel on June 28, 2024. As
a result, the motion was filed late. Additionally, trial is currently set for September
30, 2024. Based on these procedural defects, the motion is denied. 
¿ 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant Chen Family Trust’s motion
for summary judgment. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.


