  Case Number:  20STCV35050    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35050




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Cross Defendant Andy Frain Services, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant
  Cartage West, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 15, 2022, Plaintiff Michael Greenwood (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
first amended complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action for assault,
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and
negligent hiring and supervision. Plaintiff alleges he was performing his
duties as a security guard at a cargo facility at 18055 Harmon Ave. Carson,
California, when he was physically assaulted by Defendant Fermin Antonio
Mazariego Jr. (FAC ¶ 7, 10-11.) Plaintiff sued Defendant Cartage West, Inc.
(“Cartage”) for negligence and negligent hiring and supervision based on
Mazariego’s alleged actions and alleges it owned the premises where the
incident occurred (FAC ¶ 9). 
 
On
October 17, 2023, the Court granted Cartage’s motion for summary adjudication
regarding the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action, but
denied the motion regarding the negligence cause of action. 
 
            On February 23, 2024, the Court
granted Cartage’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff’s employer, Andy Frain Services, Inc. (Min. Order, 2/23/24.) 
 
            On February 29, 2024, Cartage filed
its cross-complaint for equitable indemnification, contribution, and
declaratory relief against Andy Frain Services, Inc. (“Andy Frain”). 
 
            Andy Frain now moves for judgment on
the pleadings against the entire cross-complaint, arguing that it fails to
state a cause of action. Cartage opposes and Andy Frain replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                    
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                  
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) 
 
Here,
the Declaration of Lonnie D. Giamela, Andy Frain’s counsel, does not state that
a meet and confer took place in person or by telephone. Nevertheless, “[a]
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Andy Frain argues that Labor Code section 3864 precludes
indemnification since no written indemnity agreement existed between the
parties. Labor Code section 3864 provides:
 
“If an action as provided in this chapter prosecuted by the employee,
the employer, or both jointly against the third person results in judgment
against such third person, or settlement by such third person, the employer
shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such third person harmless on such
judgment or settlement in absence of a written agreement so to do executed
prior to the injury.”
 
(Lab. Code, § 3864.)
 
This section “eliminates the employer's liability
for equitable or implied indemnification of a third party tortfeasor.” (Up-Right,
Inc. v. Van Erickson (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 579, 582 [“The Legislature
enacted this section because implied indemnity imposed a greater burden on the
employer than was contemplated under the workers' compensation system. (Citation.)
Otherwise, the employer's protection of a limit on the economic consequences of
claims made under the system could be easily circumvented.”].) 
 
In opposition, Cartage argues that section 3864
only applies after a judgment or settlement in a case, and that the section
only applies to workers’ compensation claims, but provides no authority in
support of its arguments. (Opp., 4.) The Court finds that section 3864 applies
here. (See Up-Right, Inc., supra, 5 Cal.App.4th at 583-84 [finding trial
court properly sustained demurrer without leave to amend where third party
filed cross-complaint against plaintiff’s employer and did not allege a written
indemnity agreement].)
 
Here, it is undisputed that no written indemnity
agreement was executed between Cartage and Andy Frain. Cartage argues that the
cross-complaint alleges claims that are “outside the workers’ compensation
preemption (e.g., negligent response to harassment or discrimination).” (Opp.,
p. 4.) However, Cartage does not cite to any particular paragraph in the
cross-complaint, and the Court finds that any such allegations are not
sufficiently pled.[1]
 
The Court notes that Andy Frain argues that the equitable
indemnification cause of action fails because “Andy Frain will never be
required to pay any monetary damages on Greenwood’s underlying FAC,” (Motion at
p. 1.) and that because Cartage “concedes Andy Frain had no role in
contributing to the underlying injury suffered by Plaintiff,” injury resulting
from delay cannot be the basis of an equitable indemnification claim. (Reply at
p. 1.) Cartage does not respond to this argument. The Court requires further
briefing regarding whether Cartage should be granted leave to amend, namely, what
claims Cartage proposes to allege that are not covered by worker’s compensation’s
exclusive remedy, and the ability of Cartage to do so given the allegations in
the FAC. 
 
Next, Andy Frain argues that the contribution cause of action fails
since it is not a named defendant in the underlying FAC. Andy Frain argues that
contribution requires both parties to be named as defendants in the underlying
action. (Motion, 8.)
 
 Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 875, “[w]here a money judgment has been rendered jointly against two or
more defendants in a tort action there shall be a right of contribution among
them as hereinafter provided.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint does not allege that Andy Frain and Cartage
are joint-defendants in this action, or that a money judgment exists.
Therefore, the contribution cause of action fails to state sufficient facts.
(See General Electric Co. v. State of Cal. ex rel. Dept. Pub. Wks.
(1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 918, 925-26.)[2]
 
Lastly, Andy Frain argues the declaratory relief cause of action fails
since there are no remaining causes of action and thus, no controversy. “Declaratory
relief is available to a party ‘who desires a declaration of his or her rights
or duties with respect to another ....’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) A complaint
for declaratory relief is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the
existence of an actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of
the parties and requests that the rights and duties of the parties be adjudged
by the court. If these requirements are met and no basis for declining
declaratory relief appears, the court should declare the rights of the parties
whether or not the facts alleged establish the plaintiff is entitled to
favorable declaration. [Citation.] ‘Declaratory relief operates prospectively,
serving to set controversies at rest before obligations are repudiated, rights
are invaded or wrongs are committed. Thus the remedy is to be used to advance
preventative justice, to declare rather than execute rights. [Citation.]’
[Citation.] In essence, declaratory relief operates to declare future rights,
not to address past wrongs.” (Monterey Coastkeeper v. Central Coast Regional
Water Quality Control Board (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.) To the extent Cartage
is not granted leave to amend the indemnification cause of action, there is no
basis for the declaratory relief cause of action. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Cross
Defendant Andy Frain Services, Inc.’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings against Cartage’s cross-complaint is GRANTED in
part. 
 
Cross
Complainant Cartage West, Inc.,’s request for leave to amend is continued to September
24, 2024. Cartage shall file and serve its memorandum of points and authorities
by September 16, 2024. Andy Frain may file and serve a response by September 19,
2024. Paper courtesy copies must be delivered to Department 32 by 4:00 p.m. on
the due date. Failure to serve paper courtesy copies may result in the Court
declining to consider the papers.
 
            Moving
party shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of
such.


