 Case Number:  22STCV23180    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV23180




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff to Submit to an Independent Medical Examination in
  California 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Vyacheslav Borisov and Courtney
  Honda 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Brian Nelson 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 18, 2022, Plaintiff
Brian Nelson (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Vyacheslav
Borisov and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and strict liability resulting from a
dog attack. On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Courtney Honda as Doe 1. 
 
            Defendants Vyacheslav Borisov and
Courtney Honda (“Defendants”) now move to compel Plaintiff to appear for a physical
examination with Dr. David Clark Hay in Los Angeles. 
 
            After filing this motion, Defendants
filed a substitution of attorney on July 10, 2024, and are currently
self-represented. Plaintiff opposes this motion. No reply has been filed.
 
On August 2, 2024, the Court held an informal discovery conference
regarding this issue. It was not resolved. (Min. Order, 8/2/24.)   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
“If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical
examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with Section
2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify
the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as
well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who
will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subds.
(a)-(b).)¿
 
“If the place of the examination is more than 75 miles from
the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be
entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 
(1) The court determines that there is good cause for the
travel involved. 
(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by the
moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to
the place of examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(e).)  
 
“The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental
examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427 [“the good cause which must be shown should be such
that will satisfy an impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without
abuse of the inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause
generally requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery
and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)¿ And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”¿ (Id. at p. 839.)¿¿¿ 
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff
claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.)¿
Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and
damages alleged.¿¿¿ 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jonathan M. Beltram, then-counsel for Defendants,
sets forth facts that he communicated with Plaintiff’s counsel to coordinate
the subject medical examination. (Beltram Decl. ¶ 10-13.) Therefore, the meet
and confer requirement is met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff has alleged physical injuries based on an alleged dog
attack. Plaintiff is also anticipating $50,000 in expenses for plastic surgery
to his right arm. (Beltram Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
On May 8, 2024, Defendants served a demand for a physical examination
on Plaintiff set for June 13, 2024. (Beltram Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) On May 20,
2024, Plaintiff served an objection on the basis that because he resided in
Texas, and the examination was set for Los Angeles, it was over 75 miles away
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220. (Id., Exh. E.) 
 
Defendants assert they offered to pay for Plaintiff’s reasonable
travel expenses, but that Plaintiff refused. (Beltram Decl. ¶ 10-12.) Defendants
do not want to incur the extra expenses of retaining a Texas-based examiner,
citing extreme prejudice and undue hardship. (Motion, 6.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff re-asserts the argument that because the
examination is over 75-miles from his residence in Texas, there are no grounds
to compel. Instead, Plaintiff asserts he has made himself available for
examination within 75-miles of his residence in Spring, Texas. 
 
No reply has been filed. Given that Defendants are now
self-represented, they have not confirmed whether the offer to pay for
reasonable travel expenses is still open. Furthermore, Defendants fail to set
forth specific facts in the motion, showing how they would suffer extreme
prejudice and undue hardship by retaining a Texas-based examiner. Therefore,
they fail to set forth sufficient good cause for the travel under section 2032.320(e). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Submit to an Independent Medical Examination in
California is DENIED. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 