 Case Number:  22STCV25189    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25189




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Appoint Successor in Interest for Deceased Plaintiff and for Leave to File
  First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Armen Novikov




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Manor Park, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 4, 2022, Plaintiff Armen Novikov (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Manor Park LLC, John Doe 1, John Doe 2, and Does 3 to 100 for
injuries related to shooting in an apartment complex. 
 
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff passed away. Plaintiff filed a notice of death on
February 27, 2024.
 
On June 24, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
file a first amended complaint. (Min. Order, 6/24/24.) 
 
Plaintiff now moves to appoint Silva Asatryan as successor in interest
to Plaintiff, and for leave to file a first amended complaint. Defendant Manor
Park, LLC opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Successor in Interest
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides
that the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, the decedent’s
successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71,
78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or
other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court in which an
action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is appropriate
to ensure proper administration of justice, including the appointment of the
decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator or guardian ad
litem.   
 
Section 377.32 provides that a person who seeks to commence
such an action as the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit
or declaration providing certain information, including the decedent’s name,
date and place of decedent’s death, and statements regarding whether the estate
has been administered and that the affiant or declarant is the successor in
interest on decedent’s claim. (Id., § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of
the decedent’s death certificate must also be attached to the affidavit or
declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).) 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered;
and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As the Court noted in its June 24, 2024 minute order, Plaintiff’s
original motion did not demonstrate that the translation is a “certified copy”
of Plaintiff’s death certificate, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
377.32(c). The Court further noted that the translator did not sign “under
penalty of perjury” or pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5. (See
Minute Order 6/24/24.)
 
Here, the proposed successor in interest, Silva Asatryan (“Asatryan”),
Plaintiff’s surviving spouse, attaches a purported copy of Plaintiff’s death
certificate (now, both the original and a translation). (Id., Exh. D.)
Plaintiff purportedly passed away in Armenia, and as a result, the original death
certificate is in Armenian. 
 
In opposition, Defendant again argues that no certified copy of
Plaintiff’s death certificate has been provided. (Opp., 2.) In the motion and
reply, Plaintiff again does not set forth evidence or argument that the death
certificate is a “certified copy” pursuant to section 377.32(c). (See, e.g.,
Evidence Code § 1530(c).) Moreover, as previously noted, there is no
declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5 by the translator,
Anush Khanamiryan, showing that the translation is correct. (See Min. Order,
6/24/24; see also Cal. R. of Ct. 3.1110(g) [“Exhibits written in a foreign
language must be accompanied by an English translation, certified under oath by
a qualified interpreter.”].)[1] 
 
As a result, the motion to appoint a successor in interest is denied.
Since the motion for leave to amend is based on the motion to appoint, it is also
denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Appoint Successor in Interest for
Deceased Plaintiff and for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


