 Case Number:  21STCV41952    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV41952




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and Trial-Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Downtown Center Business Improvement District Management Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Downtown Center Business Improvement District Management
Corporation (“Defendant”) moves to continue trial and all related dates. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on November
15, 2021 alleging injuries from a slip and fall after exiting a metro station. Trial
was initially set for May 15, 2023. 
 
            On May 15, 2023, after Plaintiff
failed to appear at trial, the complaint was dismissed without prejudice. (Min.
Order, 5/15/23.) 
 
            On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside the dismissal was granted. (Min. Order, 9/12/23.) 
 
Defendants Los Angeles County of Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and City of Los Angeles filed answers on October 19, 2023 and November 3, 2023
respectively. 
 
Trial was then set for October 16, 2024. (Min. Order, 11/17/23.) 
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting
Downtown Center Business Improvement District Management Corporation
(“Defendant”) as Doe 1. 
 
On June 24, 2024, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial for six months, from
October 16, 2024 to April 16, 2025. Defendant asserts that because it first
appeared in this action on June 24, 2024, it requires additional time for
discovery. Defendant contends it has propounded discovery, but still needs to depose
Plaintiff and schedule examinations. 
 
No opposition has been filed for this motion. Therefore, given
Defendant’s recent appearance in this case, the Court finds good cause to
continue trial and related dates.  
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial and all related
dates.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to April 2, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to April 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.¿¿ 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 