 Case Number:  21STCV20240    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV20240




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and all Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  1661, Inc. dba GOAT




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant 1661, Inc. dba GOAT (“Defendant”) moves to continue trial
and all related dates. Co-defendant Witeby Enterprises has filed a notice of
non-opposition. No other opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on May 28,
2021. Trial was initially set for November 28, 2022. 
 
            Defendant filed an answer on October
27, 2021. 
 
            On September 14, 2022, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to October 4,
2023. 
 
            On June 14, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion for summary judgment, set for October 3, 2024. 
 
            On July 12, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to November 15,
2024. 
 
            On March 19, 2024, Defendant
withdrew the previously filed summary judgment motion and filed an amended
motion summary judgment, set for October 3, 2024. 
 
            On April 25, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s
ex parte application to shorten the time to hear its summary judgment motion. (Min.
Order, 4/25/24.) 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Notice of the
motion and supporting papers must be served on all other parties at least 75
days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(2).)¿ The
motion must be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the
court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial 60 days. The October 3,
2024 summary judgment hearing is scheduled 43 days prior to trial. 
 
The demand for an exchange of experts must be made “no later than the
10th day after the initial trial date has been set, or 70 days before that
trial date, whichever is closer to the trial date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.220.)
Additionally, “[t]he specified date of exchange shall be 50 days before the
initial trial date, or 20 days after service of the demand, whichever is closer
to the trial date . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.230.)
 
Based on these deadlines, the demand for exchange of experts would
need to be made by September 6, 2024 (70 days before trial), and the exchange
would need to occur by September 26, 2024 (20 days later). 
 
This means that experts would need to be exchanged before the summary
judgment hearing. Defendant wishes to avoid the costs of retaining experts
since it may be successful on its summary judgment motion. As a result,
Defendant contends that a short continuance of 60 days will allow the parties
to avoid unnecessary expert fees. 
 
Therefore,
in light of the expert deadlines, the upcoming summary judgment motion, and
lack of opposition, the Court finds good cause to continue trial. However,
given the reason for the continuance, the Court finds no good cause to continue
fact discovery deadlines. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants in part the motion to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s motion to continue trial and all
related dates.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 14, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to January 28, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Only
expert discovery cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the new trial
date.  
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 