 Case Number:  24STCV16867    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BIMBO LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SOPHIA PATTERSON, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV16867
  Hearing Date:  November 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff Bimbo LLC
filed this action against Defendants Sophia Patterson (Patterson) and Gemini
Management Inc. (Gemini). The complaint asserts causes of action for: breach of
contract; inducing breach of contract; interference with contractual relations;
interference with economic relations; unfair competition; unjust enrichment;
and injunctive relief. 
            Plaintiff is a consulting company
that provides brand development and marketing services for social media
personalities. In April 2023, Plaintiff entered into a Consulting Agreement
with Patterson, wherein Patterson would work as a consultant for Plaintiff. The
Agreement contained nondisclosure provisions protecting Plaintiff’s
confidential information. The parties also executed an independent
nondisclosure agreement. The complaint alleges that in September 2023,
Patterson secretly formed Gemini, a competing company that provides similar
services as Plaintiff. Patterson allegedly used Plaintiff’s trade secrets and
confidential information to operate Gemini. 

            On October 21, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed a late opposition
on November 19, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Farrell Decl.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Restraint of Trade
“Except as provided in this chapter, every
contract by which anyone is restrained from engaging in a lawful profession,
trade, or business of any kind is to that extent void.” (Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 16600(a).) “This section shall be read broadly, in accordance with Edwards v.
Arthur Andersen LLP (2008) 44 Cal.4th 937, to void the application of any
noncompete agreement in an employment context, or any noncompete clause in an
employment contract, no matter how narrowly tailored, that does not satisfy an
exception in this chapter.” (Id., § 16600(b)(1).) “[I]n the absence of a
protectable trade secret, the right to compete fairly outweighs the employer's
right to protect clients against competition from former employees.” (AMN
Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya Healthcare Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
923, 948.) 
Despite this broad policy in favor of
competition, “former employees may not misappropriate the former employer's
trade secrets to unfairly compete with the former employer.” (The Retirement
Group v. Galante (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1226, 1237.) Thus, “agreements
designed to protect an employer's proprietary information do not violate
section 16600.” (Fowler v. Varian Assocs. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 34, 44.)
However, noncompete and non-solicitation clauses must be “narrowly tailored or
carefully limited to the protection of trade secrets.” (Dowell v. Biosense
Webster, Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 564, 577.) Provisions that are “so
broadly worded as to restrain competition” are still invalid. (Ibid.)
Additionally, “confidentiality provisions are void ab initio and
unenforceable” if they “operate as a de facto noncompete provision.” (Brown
v. TGS Management Co., LLC (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 303, 319.)        
Here, the first cause of action alleges a
breach of Section 6(b) of the Consulting Agreement. (Compl. ¶ 62, 65.) Section
6(b) of the Consulting Agreement provides that “Consultant will keep in
strictest confidence, both during the terms of this Agreement and subsequent to
termination or expiration of this Agreement, and will not during the term of
this Agreement or at any time thereafter disclose or divulge to any person,
firm, or corporation, or use directly or indirectly, for Consultant’s own
benefit or benefit of any third party, any Confidential Information.” (Id.,
Ex. 1.) Section 6(a) defines “confidential information” as “Company’s
confidential and/or proprietary information concerning its business affairs,
finances, marketing plans, properties, pricing plans, business model(s),
methods of operations, product plans, identities of licensors, distributors,
suppliers, manufacturers, techniques, intellectual property rights, personnel
information, client lists, and client contact information, client personal
property and other data or information.” (Ibid.) 
The second cause of action alleges a
breach of the Non-Disclosure Agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 71-96.) The Non-Disclosure
Agreement requires Patterson to preserve, protect, and not use any of the
Confidential Information and Intellectual Property Rights in perpetuity after
her termination from the Company. (Compl., Ex. 2, § 2(a)-(e).) “Confidential
information” is defined as “information and material concerning the Company and
its employees … that is not generally known to the public and that is used in
the business of the Company and that the Company treats as proprietary, private
or confidential.” (Id., § 1(a).) “Intellectual property” is defined as trademarks,
patents, copyrights and trade secrets. (Id., § 1(b).) 
The confidentiality provisions at issue
are not so facially overbroad that the Court can declare them “a de facto
noncompete provision” as a matter of law on demurrer. (See Brown, supra,
57 Cal.App.5th at p. 319.) It is true that “section 16600 precludes an
employer from restraining an employee from engaging in his or her ‘profession,
trade, or business,’ even if such an employee uses information that is
confidential but not a trade secret.” (AMN, supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p.
940.) But “[t]he issue of whether information constitutes a trade secret is a
question of fact.” (Thompson v. Impaxx, Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th
1425, 1430.)
The provisions here are unlike the ones in
Brown, which defined confidential information as “information, in
whatever form, used or usable in, or originated, developed or acquired for use
in, or about or relating to, the Business.” (Brown, supra, 57
Cal.App.5th at p. 316.) “The Business” was defined as “without limitation
analyzing, executing, trading and/or hedging in securities and financial
instruments and derivatives thereon, securities-related research, and trade
processing and related administration.” (Ibid.) In essence, the employer
was “claiming for itself, without limitation, all information
that is ‘usable in’ or that ‘relates to’ the securities industry.” (Id.
at p. 317.) “So defined, the ‘Business’ means not just statistical
arbitrage—the actual business of TGS—but, instead, refers to all aspects of
working in the securities industry at large.” (Ibid.) Thus, the
provisions barred the plaintiff “in perpetuity from doing any work in the
securities field.” (Id. at p. 319.) 
It is not facially apparent that the
confidentiality provisions here achieve the same effect. To the contrary, the
provisions are limited to information about “the Company,” not about the
industry generally. Whether the specific types of information covered in the
provisions are actually trade secrets is a question of fact. (See Thompson,
supra, 113 Cal.App.4th at p. 1430.) For demurrer purposes, the complaint
sufficiently establishes that the contract claims are based on valid and
enforceable confidentiality provisions rather than overbroad noncompete
clauses.  
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first
and second causes of action.     
II.
Interference with Contract and Inducing Breach of Contract
The elements of intentional interference
with contractual relations are: “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a
third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant’s
intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns
& Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.) The tort of inducing breach of
contract consists of the same elements, except it requires actual breach of the
contract as opposed to mere interference. (Id. at p. 1129.)   
The third and fourth causes of action are
premised on allegations that Patterson induced various clients, employees, and
partners of Plaintiff to breach their contracts with Plaintiff and sign with
Patterson and Gemini instead. (Compl. ¶¶ 97-127.) Patterson allegedly knew of
these contracts through her employment with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) These
breaches allegedly caused Plaintiff damages of at least $3 million. (Id.,
¶¶ 107, 124.) 
These allegations satisfy the elements of
contractual interference and inducing breach of contract. The specific
identities of the clients, employees, and partners, and the particular
contracts that were breached, are factual matters for discovery. For pleading
purposes, the allegations are sufficient “to put the defendant on notice about
what the plaintiff is complaining and what remedies are being sought.” (See Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third
and fourth causes of action.
III.
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.
(Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134,
1153.) To maintain a claim for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, a plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant engaged in
an independently wrongful act. (Id. at p. 1158.) “[A]n act is
independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal
standard.” (Id. at p. 1159.) 
Plaintiff alleges that it had economic
relationships with various clients and talents, which Patterson disrupted by
taking for her own business. (Compl. ¶¶ 129-133.) In so doing, Patterson
allegedly disparaged Plaintiff and its management and stole Plaintiff’s
confidential information and trade secrets. (Id., ¶¶ 131.) This
sufficiently alleges the elements of the interference claim. It may be
reasonably inferred that the disparagement of Plaintiff and stealing of trade
secrets constitute wrongful conduct. For example, Patterson may have defamed
Plaintiff. (See Compl. ¶¶ 139-140 [alleging trade libel].) Moreover, a customer
list may constitute a trade secret. (See Morlife, Inc. v. Perry (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 1514, 1521.) If Patterson defamed Plaintiff and used
confidential customer lists to take Plaintiff’s clients, that would constitute
wrongful conduct related to the interference. The precise nature of Patterson’s
acts is a factual matter for discovery.
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth
cause of action.
IV.
Preemption
            The California Uniform Trade Secrets
Act (CUTSA) “preempts alternative civil remedies based on trade secret
misappropriation.” (K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America Technology
& Operations, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 954.) “CUTSA provides
the exclusive civil remedy for conduct falling within its terms, so as to
supersede other civil remedies ‘based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.’”
(Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 210, 236.) 
            Defendants argue that the UCL claim
must be dismissed because it is based “in part” on misappropriation of
Plaintiff’s trade secrets. (Dem. 14:28-15:2.) However, Defendants cannot demur
to part of a cause of action. The UCL claim is based on more than the stealing
of trade secrets. It is also based on alleged trade libel. (See Compl. ¶¶
139-140.) Thus, the UCL claim is not preempted by CUTSA. 
            However, the unjust enrichment claim
is solely premised on the alleged misappropriation of trade secrets. (Compl. ¶
145.) Thus, that claim is preempted. (See K.C. Multimedia, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at p. 955 [“claims by the cross-complainant for conversion and
unjust enrichment were preempted, where they were ‘based entirely on the same
factual allegations that form the basis of its trade secrets claim’”].)   
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
sixth cause of action but SUSTAINED as to the seventh cause of action. 
 
 
V.
Alter Ego
            Defendants argue that Gemini cannot
be liable as an alter ego of Patterson because of insufficient facts and
because “reverse piercing” is not allowed. However, despite the boilerplate
allegations of alter ego, the complaint asserts claims directly against Gemini
for Gemini’s actions. Of course, Gemini could only act through Patterson as the
sole manager. (See Creative Ventures, LLC v. Jim Ward & Associates
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1430, 1443 [a corporation can only act through its
agents].) But the claims are still premised on Gemini’s actions and do not
require an alter ego theory to impose liability on Gemini. Therefore, Gemini is
a valid defendant. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED as
to the seventh cause of action with leave to amend and OVERRULED in all other
respects. 
 