


[1] The Unlawful Detainer complaint was originally
brought on behalf of a different entity, but was later amended to be brought on
behalf of the Eislers.


[2] Plaintiff did provide a declaration in connection
with Plaintiff’s concurrent Motion to Continue Trial, which indicates that
despite Plaintiff’s efforts and requests to timely file the Second Amended
Complaint, the clerk would not file it. 
(See Ortiz Decl. in support of Motion to Continue Trial, ¶ 1.)

TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 23, 2023




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTIONS


Motion to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for The Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, Individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells.



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Unlawful Detainer Action
 
            On May 11, 2015, the Eisler
Defendants to this action[1]
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
(“Plaintiff”), case number 15R02431. 
(See Exhibits B and C to the Defendants’ Feb. 6, 2020 Request for
Judicial Notice in support of Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended
Complaint [hereinafter “RJN”].) 
Plaintiff proceeded in pro per in that matter.
 
            On December 4, 2015, the morning of
the unlawful detainer trial, Plaintiff [then-Defendant] stood up in open court,
in front of the jury, and interrupted the court’s proceedings.  The court removed the jury from the courtroom,
attempted to advise Plaintiff regarding appropriate courtroom demeanor, but
Plaintiff was “belligerent” and advised the court she was leaving to go see the
supervising judge.  (RJN Ex. F.)  The court informed her that if she left, her
answer would be stricken and the trial would go forward.  Plaintiff chose to leave anyway.  The jury was then thanked and discharged, and
the matter proceeded as a court trial in Plaintiff’s absence.  The court ordered judgment in favor of the
Eislers.  (Ibid.)
 
            The Current Action
 
Plaintiff, proceeding in pro per, filed the Complaint in this matter on
January 13, 2016.  On December 4, 2017,
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint, alleging the following causes of
action:
 

First: Violation of Civil Rights
Second: Actual and Punitive Damages under FEHA
Third: Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
Fourth: Actual and Punitive Damages under California’s Landlord
     Tenant Statutes
Fifth: Actual and Punitive damages for retaliation
Sixth: Actual and Punitive damages for breach of contract and of the
     covenant of quiet enjoyment
Seventh: Breach of warranty of habitability
Eighth: Nuisance
Ninth: Negligence
Tenth: Malicious Prosecution
Tenth [sic]: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Eleventh: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Twelfth: Violation of Santa Monica Charter Amendment section 1809
Thirteenth: Breach of Written Rental Agreement
Fourteenth: Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional
     Distress
Fifteenth: Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof.,
     sections 17000 and 17200)
Sixteenth: Unlawful Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof.,
     sections 17000 and 17200)
Seventeenth: Negligent Supervision and maintenance
Eighteenth: Negligence Per Se

 
Anti-SLAPP & Appeal
 
On March 12, 2019, Defendants filed a special motion to strike the Fifth,
Sixth, Tenth (both), Twelfth, Thirteenth and Sixteenth causes of action,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP).  The Court granted the Anti-SLAPP motion and
struck the fifth, tenth (both), twelfth, and sixteenth causes of action in
their entirety.  With respect to the
sixth cause of action, the Court granted the motion in part, “only as to all
allegations relating to the institution of the unlawful detainer action, both
as to the breach of contract and breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
claims.”  (See November 19, 2019 Minute
Order.)  
 
Plaintiff appealed, and the Court of Appeal reversed in part with respect to the twelfth cause of action only, explaining that the “allegation that
defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent” pursuant to
section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment did not arise from protected
activity.  The Court of Appeal affirmed
the Court’s decision in all other respects. 
(See August 22, 2022 Appeal – Remittitur – Other Reversed in Part and
Affirmed in Part (B303780).)  
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike
 
On February 6, 2020, Defendants demurred to the other causes of action
(First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth) and moved to strike
requests for attorneys’ fees, punitive damages, injunctive relief, and treble
damages and disgorgement from the FAC. 
The Court sustained the demurrer regarding the subject causes of action,
without leave to amend, because Plaintiff raised the claims as affirmative
defenses in connection with the unlawful detainer matter. Thus, the court
determined that the subject causes of action were barred by res judicata.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
 
With respect to the motion to strike, the Court granted the motion to
strike in part.  The Court struck
Plaintiff’s request for treble damages and disgorgement under the Third Cause
of Action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because the court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to that cause of action without leave to
amend.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute
Order.)
 
The Court also granted Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages in connection with the twelfth cause of action, and
Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief, but granted Plaintiff 30 days’ leave
to amend.  (December 6, 2022 Minute
Order.)
 
Current State of Pleadings
 
Currently, Plaintiff’s Twelfth cause of action remains at-issue, but that
cause of action is limited to Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants demanded
rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of the
Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff did not file an amended complaint within the 30-day
time period in conformance with the Court’s order of December 6, 2022 vis-à-vis
the motion to strike.  
 
Plaintiff moved for reconsideration of the Court’s order on the demurrer
and motion to strike, which the Court denied on February 6, 2023.  (See February 6, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to amend the complaint.  Defendants oppose the motion, and Plaintiff
replies.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST TO INTRODUCE ORAL TESTIMONY AT HEARING
 
            Plaintiff has filed a request to
introduce oral testimony at the hearing on the motion to continue the trial.  Plaintiff contends oral testimony is
necessary to fully explain “what really has transpired with regards to the
filing of [Plaintiff’s] Amended Complaint” and “an explanation is necessary
with regards to the allegations of a purported delay in the case, the stay
placed on the case by Judge Craig Karlan during the Covid-19 pandemic and the frivolous
filing of Defendants’ Motion to Strike Anti-SLAPP CA CCP 425.16 which they got
affirmed in part on a technicality” and “as to the causes of action that
remained after the Anti-SLAPP, Motion to Strike and Demurrer rulings and newly
discovered facts which were not available which affect the case.”  (Request at pp. 3-4.)
 
The Court denies this request. 
Plaintiff may present oral argument at the hearing, but may not present
oral evidence.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored,
each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
[…]
 
(6) A party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change
in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in
ruling on a motion for continuance include:
 
(1) 
The proximity of the trial date;
 
(2) 
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay
of trial due to any party;
 
(3) 
The length of the continuance requested;
 
(4) 
The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave
rise to the motion or application for a continuance;
 
(5) 
The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the
continuance;
 
(6) 
If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
 
(7) 
The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other
pending trials;
 
(8) 
Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
 
(9) 
Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10) 
Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by
the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11) 
Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the
motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff contends that a
continuance is warranted because (1) the Clerk has not yet filed the proposed second
amended complaint; (2) “there is a Petition for Review of the previous Court’s
ruling pending at the California Supreme Court (and a forthcoming writ at the
Court of Appeal); and (3) “the hospitalization and illness of Plaintiff which
precluded her from doing her discovery.” 
(Motion at p. 2.)
 
Proposed Second Amended
Complaint
 
The fact that the clerk has not yet
filed the proposed second amended complaint does not constitute good cause to
continue the trial.  As explained in the
Court’s concurrent order on Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend the
Complaint, the proposed second amended complaint Plaintiff received by the
Court in March 2023 exceeds the scope of the leave granted by the Court’s
December 6, 2022 order by improperly seeking to revive causes of action that
have already been stricken and/or dismissed with prejudice, and attempting to
add an additional cause of action. 
Therefore, the proposed second amended complaint cannot properly be
filed.
 
Defendants argue in opposition that
Plaintiff’s complaint should be dismissed with prejudice because of Plaintiff’s
failure to timely file an amended complaint in conformance with the Court’s
December 6, 2022 Order.  The Court
disagrees.  Aspects of Plaintiff’s Twelfth
cause of action remain active and are not dependent upon any amendments.  That Plaintiff either chose to or failed to
timely amend to revive previously stricken requests for punitive damages,
treble damages, disgorgement, and injunctive relief does not impact what
remains of the twelfth cause of action. 
Therefore, the Court finds that dismissal of the Twelfth cause of action
is inappropriate.
 
Petitions for Review/Writs
 
Unlike an appeal, which is taken by
right, and which automatically stays further trial court proceedings under Code
of Civil Procedure section 916, “a writ is an extraordinary, discretionary
remedy” which does not automatically stay proceedings in the trial court.  (In re Brandy R. (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 607, 609-610.)  Thus, a
pending writ is not a basis to continue the trial.
 
Moreover, there is no pending
writ.  Plaintiff contends a writ will be “forthcoming.”  (Motion at p. 7.)  Thus, the forthcoming writ does not form a
basis to continue the trial.
 
With respect to petitions for
review, “A petition for review must be served and filed within 10 days after
the Court of Appeal decision is final in that court.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 8.500(e)(1).)  “Any answer to the petition must be served
and filed within 20 days after the petition is filed” and “[a]ny reply to the
answer must be served and filed within 10 days after the answer is filed.”  (Rule 8.500(e)(4)-(5).)  “The petition must also be served on the
superior court clerk[.]”  (Rule 8.500(f)(1).)  
 
Here, the appellate court ruled on
the Anti-SLAPP motion on August 22, 2022. 
Thus, Plaintiff’s petition was due by September 1, 2022, Defendants’ answer
by September 21, 2022, and Plaintiff’s reply by October 1, 2022.  Now, over a year later, Plaintiff has not
filed any notice with the court regarding any petition for review with the
California Supreme Court.
 
On Reply, Plaintiff clarifies
“Plaintiff filed a Writ of Certiorari (not a Petition for Review as stated by
Defendants) with the U.S. Supreme Court but the Court wanted it bifurcated and
it is still in someone’s desk.  The U S
[sic] Supreme Court has yet to file the Writ, thus it is not in their docket;
thus it does not appear when you search it – as of right now.”  (Reply at p. 6.)  
 
Therefore, there is no petition for
review or writ of certiorari to warrant a stay or continuance.
 
Plaintiff’s Illness and
Hospitalization
 
Plaintiff’s declaration in support
of the motion indicates “That I was seriously ill and hospitalized while
waiting for the filing of the Amended Complaint by the Clerk and am now
recovering from a serious illness for the last months (and previously).”  (Ortiz Decl. ¶ 4.)  With regard to Plaintiff’s attempt to have
the Clerk file the proposed second amended complaint, Plaintiff indicates, “The
last request to the Clerk was last Friday, September 15, 2023.”  Thus, Plaintiff asserts that from at least
January 2023 through September 2023, she has been seriously ill and
hospitalized, and therefore unable to conduct discovery.
 
Although Plaintiff’s declaration does
not elaborate on the details of the discovery Plaintiff was unable to obtain, a
lengthy and serious illness and hospitalization could form the basis of an excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts, pursuant to Rule 3.1332(c)(6).  
 
Moreover, the trial is currently
scheduled for the same day as the hearing date on this motion and Plaintiff’s
concurrent Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint, and the parties still have
vastly different expectations with respect to the appropriate scope of this
case.  Plaintiff seeks to litigate 18
causes of action that were previously stricken and/or dismissed with prejudice,
whereas Defendants request that the Court dismiss the case in its entirety with
prejudice.  Thus, it appears neither
party is currently prepared to try the Twelfth cause of action.
 
Therefore, although the trial date
is imminent, because there is only a single cause of action remaining in this action,
the Court will grant a short continuance to enable the parties to prepare for
trial as to the twelfth cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Although
the Court finds that the clerk’s refusal to file Plaintiff’s improper proposed
second amended complaint, and the pending and/or forthcoming writs do not
create a significant, unanticipated change in the case to warrant a
continuance, Plaintiff’s lengthy illness and hospitalization, combined with the
parties’ starkly contrasting expectations with respect to the proper scope of
the trial warrant a short continuance.
 
As such, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for a short continuance, to permit the parties to prepare
for trial on the Twelfth cause of action remaining in this action.  Consequently, the Court will set a Trial
Setting Conference on November 20, 2023 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 2307.  All parties shall be prepared to advise the
Court when they will be ready to proceed with a trial on the remaining cause of
action, and whether the trial will be a jury or bench trial with an attendant
time estimate for the trial.  
 
 The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
DATED: 
October 23, 2023                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


