 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 23, 2023




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for The Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, Individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells.



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Unlawful Detainer Action
 
            On May 11, 2015, the Eisler Defendants
to this action[1]
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
(“Plaintiff”), case number 15R02431.  (See
Exhibits B and C to the Defendants’ Feb. 6, 2020 Request for Judicial Notice in
support of Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint [hereinafter
“RJN”].)  Plaintiff proceeded in pro per
in that matter.
 
            On December 4, 2015, the morning of
the unlawful detainer trial, Plaintiff [then-Defendant] stood up in open court,
in front of the jury, and interrupted the court’s proceedings.  The court removed the jury from the courtroom,
attempted to advise Plaintiff regarding appropriate courtroom demeanor, but
Plaintiff was “belligerent” and advised the court she was leaving to go see the
supervising judge.  (RJN Ex. F.)  The court informed her that if she left, her
answer would be stricken and the trial would go forward.  Plaintiff chose to leave anyway.  The jury was then thanked and discharged, and
the matter proceeded as a court trial in Plaintiff’s absence.  The court ordered judgment in favor of the
Eislers.  (Ibid.)
 
            The Current Action
 
Plaintiff, proceeding in pro per, filed the Complaint in this matter on
January 13, 2016.  On December 4, 2017, Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint, alleging the following causes of action:
 

First: Violation of Civil Rights
Second: Actual and Punitive Damages under FEHA
Third: Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
Fourth: Actual and Punitive Damages under California’s Landlord
     Tenant Statutes
Fifth: Actual and Punitive damages for retaliation
Sixth: Actual and Punitive damages for breach of contract and of the
     covenant of quiet enjoyment
Seventh: Breach of warranty of habitability
Eighth: Nuisance
Ninth: Negligence
Tenth: Malicious Prosecution
Tenth [sic]: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Eleventh: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Twelfth: Violation of Santa Monica Charter Amendment section 1809
Thirteenth: Breach of Written Rental Agreement
Fourteenth: Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional
     Distress
Fifteenth: Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof.,
     sections 17000 and 17200)
Sixteenth: Unlawful Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof.,
     sections 17000 and 17200)
Seventeenth: Negligent Supervision and maintenance
Eighteenth: Negligence Per Se

 
Anti-SLAPP & Appeal
 
On March 12, 2019, Defendants filed a special motion to strike the Fifth,
Sixth, Tenth (both), Twelfth, Thirteenth and Sixteenth causes of action,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP).  The Court granted the Anti-SLAPP motion and
struck the fifth, tenth (both), twelfth, and sixteenth causes of action in
their entirety.  With respect to the
sixth cause of action, the Court granted the motion in part, “only as to all
allegations relating to the institution of the unlawful detainer action, both
as to the breach of contract and breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
claims.”  (See November 19, 2019 Minute
Order.)  
 
Plaintiff appealed, and the Court of Appeal reversed in part with respect to the twelfth cause of action only, explaining that the “allegation that
defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent” pursuant to
section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment did not arise from protected
activity.  The Court of Appeal affirmed
the Court’s decision in all other respects. 
(See August 22, 2022 Appeal – Remittitur – Other Reversed in Part and
Affirmed in Part (B303780).)  
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike
 
On February 6, 2020, Defendants demurred to the other causes of action
(First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth) and moved to strike requests
for attorneys’ fees, punitive damages, injunctive relief, and treble damages
and disgorgement from the FAC.  The Court
sustained the demurrer regarding the subject causes of action, without leave to
amend, because Plaintiff raised the claims as affirmative defenses in
connection with the unlawful detainer matter. Thus, the court determined that
the subject causes of action were barred by res judicata.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
 
With respect to the motion to strike, the Court granted the motion to
strike in part.  The Court struck
Plaintiff’s request for treble damages and disgorgement under the Third Cause
of Action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because the court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to that cause of action without leave to amend.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
The Court also granted Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages in connection with the twelfth cause of action, and
Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief, but granted Plaintiff 30 days’ leave
to amend.  (December 6, 2022 Minute
Order.)
 
Current State of Pleadings
 
Currently, Plaintiff’s Twelfth cause of action remains at-issue, but that
cause of action is limited to Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants demanded
rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of the
Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff did not file an amended complaint within the 30-day
time period in conformance with the Court’s order of December 6, 2022 vis-à-vis
the motion to strike.  
 
Plaintiff moved for reconsideration of the Court’s order on the demurrer
and motion to strike, which the Court denied on February 6, 2023.  (See February 6, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to amend the complaint.  Defendants oppose the motion, and Plaintiff
replies.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST TO INTRODUCE ORAL TESTIMONY AT HEARING
 
            Plaintiff has filed a request to
introduce oral testimony at the hearing on the motion for leave to amend the
complaint.  Plaintiff contends oral
testimony is necessary to fully explain “what really has transpired with
regards to the filing of [Plaintiff’s] Amended Complaint” and “an explanation
is necessary with regards to the frivolous filing of Defendants’ Motion to
Strike Anti-SLAPP CA CCP 425.16 which they got affirmed in part on a
technicality” and “as to the causes of action that remained after the
Anti-SLAPP, Motion to Strike and Demurrer rulings and newly discovered facts
which were not available which affect the case.”  
 
The Court denies this request. 
Plaintiff may present oral argument at the hearing, but may not present
oral evidence.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Amendments to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
 
            To wit,
without notice to the other party the Court has wide discretion to allow either
party (i) to add or strike the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in
the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of
justice” and “on any terms as may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426,
1429.) Alternatively, after notice to the other party, the Court has wide
discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be
just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of
Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.”
 
            Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg
(1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an established policy in California
since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter (1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas
v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150, 155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan
v. Superior Court held “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting
of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse
permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)
Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend
where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court
may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil &
Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023)
¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)
However, if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay
has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to
amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed
delay alone is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment
has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing
amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such
a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653
(citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along
with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of
discovery, etc. . . . But the fact that the amendment involves a change in
legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing
party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if
some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the amendment but impose
conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be
proper.’” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation
omitted.) For example, the court may cause the party seeking the amendment to
pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664
(citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural
Requirements
 
            Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must:
 
“(1) Include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.”
 
            In
addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must
be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect
of the amendment;
(2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedural
Requirements    
 
Plaintiff’s declaration
accompanying the motion indicates, in relevant part:
 
2.  That this amendment will allow Plaintiff to
assert all her allegations and Defendants for the proper adjudication of the
case otherwise she would be seriously prejudiced.
 
3.  That amendment is proper because Plaintiff
did not have all her allegations or Defendants and or facts delineated at the
time of the filing of the Complaint and/or First Amended Complaint.
 
4.  That Plaintiff
solidified who and what were the defendants and the causes of action and
damages recently as she was waiting for a decision from the Appellate Division,
Court of Appeal, CA Supreme Court and U.S. Supreme Court on a related case, due
to her continued illness and limited legal resources.

 
(Ortiz Decl. ¶¶
2-4.)  
 
In light of the protracted procedural history of this action and the Unlawful
Detainer action, Plaintiff’s statement that she “solidified who and what were
the defendants and the causes of action and damages recently as she was waiting
for a decision from the Appellate Division, Court of Appeal, CA Supreme Court
and U.S. Supreme Court on a related case, due to her continued illness and
limited legal resources” is too vague to inform the court when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were first discovered.  Thus, Plaintiff has not satisfied the
procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324(b).
 
Similarly, with respect to the
procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324(a), the motion indicates “The proposed
amendments fall into four categories: (1) non-substantive clerical corrections;
(2) addition of new legal claims to clarify a previously existing cause of
action; (3) the addition of new causes of action based on facts already
pleaded; and (4) additions to Plaintiff’s prayer based on the newly proposed
causes of action and mistakes in the previous complaint.”  (Motion at pp. 7-8.)
 
Plaintiff did file a declaration on
February 6, 2023 with a proposed second amended complaint, and Plaintiff did
electronically lodge a “Second Amended Complaint” with the Court on March 21,
2023, but these do not comport with the rule. 
Moreover, the proposed Second Amended Complaint reasserts all the causes
of action of the First Amended Complaint, including those that were either
stricken and/or dismissed with prejudice by way of the anti-SLAPP motion, the
demurrer, and/or the motion to strike.  The
proposed Second Amended Complaint corrects the numbering, such that there are
no longer two separate “Tenth” causes of action; changes the Fourteenth (now
Fifteenth) cause of action from Intentional and Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress to just Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and adds
a Twentieth cause of action for “Malicious Institution of Civil
Proceeding.”  
 
            The
proposed Second Amended Complaint that Plaintiff lodged does not appear to add
any additional defendants, and adds only one new cause of action.  Therefore, it appears Plaintiff seeks leave
to file a different version of the Second Amended Complaint that has not been
provided to the Court.  The motion also
does not indicate “where, by page, paragraph, and line number,” the additional
allegations and/or deletions are located.
 
            Therefore,
Plaintiff has failed to satisfy the procedural requirements of moving for leave
to amend.
 
            Substance
of Motion
 
            Plaintiff
contends on Reply (without evidentiary support) that she was unable to timely
file a second amended complaint, pursuant to the Court’s December 6, 2022
Minute Order, because when she attempted to timely file it, it did not actually
file for some reason.[2]
 
But even if Plaintiff’s assertions
were supported by competent evidence, the version of the Second Amended
Complaint Plaintiff lodged with the Court in March 2023 vastly exceeds the
scope of the leave Plaintiff was granted on December 6, 2022.  Following Defendants’ successful anti-SLAPP
motion, demurrer, and subsequent motion to strike, the only cause of action
remaining in the complaint is the Twelfth cause of action, and the Twelfth
cause of action remains only with respect to Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants
demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of
the Santa Monica Charter Amendment.  All
other causes of action have been stricken or dismissed from the complaint with
prejudice.
 
            The Court
granted Plaintiff leave to amend the allegations to attempt to revive her claim
of punitive damages under the twelfth cause of action and to revive her request
for injunctive relief, both of which the Court struck without prejudice.  Plaintiff was not permitted to re-assert the
other eighteen causes of action that were stricken and/or dismissed with
prejudice.  Nor was Plaintiff permitted
to add a cause of action for “Malicious Institution of Civil Proceeding.”  
 
            Therefore,
even if the Court were to excuse the delay, the proposed Second Amended
Complaint Plaintiff filed in March 2023 is and was wholly improper.  
 
            Now
Plaintiff seeks further leave of the Court to not only re-assert claims already
dismissed with prejudice, but also to add new, unspecified defendants and
causes of action.  Plaintiff does not
specify who she seeks to name as a defendant, what new causes of action she
seeks to add, what the factual bases for those newly added parties and causes
of action are, when or how Plaintiff discovered those facts, or why Plaintiff
could not have added those facts, claims, and/or defendants earlier in the
litigation.  All Plaintiff indicates in
this regard is that “Plaintiff solidified who and what were the defendants and
the causes of action and damages recently as she was waiting for a decision
from the Appellate Division, Court of Appeal, CA Supreme Court and U.S. Supreme
Court on a related case, due to her continued illness and limited legal
resources.”  (Ortiz Decl. ¶ 4.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has not met her burden
to establish a sufficient factual or legal basis for the Court to grant leave
to amend.
 
Further, Defendants will be
prejudiced.  Despite Plaintiff’s
contention that “This is simply not the ‘eve of trial’ type scenario” (Motion
at p. 12) the request is being made on the eve of trial.  Trial is currently scheduled for the same day
as the hearing on this motion.  Plaintiff
cannot, at this very late stage of the litigation, reassert causes of action
that were already dismissed with prejudice, or add new unspecified defendants
and causes of action without severely prejudicing Defendants.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Because
Plaintiff has not satisfied the procedural requirements of moving for leave to
amend, Plaintiff untimely lodged a version of the second amended complaint that
far exceeded the scope of the leave granted by the Court’s December 6, 2022
Order, the proposed amendments improperly seek to revive causes of action that
have been stricken and/or dismissed with prejudice, and Defendants will be
prejudiced by the proposed amendments, given that Plaintiff seeks to add new
defendants and causes of action on the eve of trial, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint.
 
 The clerk shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling.  
 
 
DATED: 
October 23, 2023                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


