 Case Number:  24STCV12716    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



COLLECTION SOLUTIONS SOFTWARE 
                           
         vs.
 
SOLAR SERVICE EXPERTS, LLC dba ENERGY
  SERVICE EXPERTS aka SPRUCE POWER 
 
                                           


 Case No.: 
  24STCV12716 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 14, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion for a stay of proceedings is GRANTED. 
 
            On
5/20/2024, Plaintiff Collection Solutions Software, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit
against Solar Service Experts, LLC dba Energy Service Experts aka Spruce Power
(Defendant) alleging breach of contracts. 
 
            On
7/24/2024, Defendant moved for a stay of proceedings. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that a stay is warranted, arguing it “filed suit on April 3, 2024
(before Plaintiff commenced this action) in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division against Collection
Solutions Software (“CSS”) concerning the same facts and circumstances at issue
in this action. CSS, however, filed a motion to dismiss the Texas federal
action, but that motion is not yet fully briefed and the court in Texas has not
yet ruled on that motion.” (Motion, 1: 4-8.) 
 
            Pursuant
to the parties’ forum selection clause, which controls this action and the
action filed in Texas, Texas law applies and either Texas or California is the
appropriate jurisdiction/venue for this dispute, depending on which party files
first:
 
21.2
Jurisdiction and Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial. This Agreement shall be
construed under and governed by the laws of the State of Texas, without regard
to Texas’s conflict or choice of law provisions. The United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods and any legislation
implementing such Convention, and the Uniform Computer Information Transactions
Act, shall not be applicable to this Agreement. All disputes arising under, out
of, or in any way connected with this Agreement shall be litigated exclusively
in the following jurisdiction and venue and in no other court or jurisdiction. In
the event that CSS brings any claim against Customer under this Agreement,
exclusive jurisdiction and venue for such claim shall be in the state or
federal courts located in California Los Angeles County, and in the event that
Customer brings any claim against CSS under this Agreement, exclusive
jurisdiction and venue for such claim shall be in the state or federal courts
situated in the State of Texas, County of Harris, and in no other court or
jurisdiction. The parties agree to have the court seal the file to prevent
the disclosure of any proprietary information. The parties hereby waive trial
by jury in respect of any legal action arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(Exhibit 1, Exhibit A, pg. 27, § 21.2.
 
Because
Defendant here was the first to file in Texas, the outcome of the motion to
dismiss will determine which jurisdiction/venue is proper for this dispute.
 
The pendency
of another earlier action growing out of the same transaction and between the
same parties is a ground for abatement of the second action.” (Leadford v.
Leadford (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 571, 574.) Pursuant to the Court’s authority
to stay or dismiss an action for inconvenient forum, a stay of a later-filed
action may be appropriate where, as here, another action arising out of the
same circumstances is pending between the same parties in another state. (Id.
at 574-575.) The court must first make a threshold determination on whether the
alternate forum is suitable for trial, which means the alternate forum has
jurisdiction and no statute of limitations applies. (Chong v. Superior Court,
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1037.) From there, the court “balances the private
interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in retaining the
action in California.” 
 
The private
interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the
ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of
access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and
the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses.
The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts
with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors so that
they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has
little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation. 
 
(Stangvik
v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)
 
The Court has
discretion to grant or deny the stay based upon these factors. (Leadford,
supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at 575.)
 
Here, Defendant’s
Complaint is based on the same set of facts as CSS’s Complaint, but requests
that the court determine whether Spruce had the right to terminate all services
under the Agreement despite the addition of additional services throughout the
Agreement’s three-year term. (Exhibit 2, ¶¶ 12-31; RJN.) 
 
There is a
motion to dismiss pending in the Southern District of Texas concerning the
question of jurisdiction and venue. As such, the Court finds it prudent to stay
this action so that there are not two actions pending between the same parties
over the same facts and circumstances. This is especially true given that
priority should be given to the court that first assumed jurisdiction over the
case, and the stay will be brief as a ruling is forthcoming. (See Engle v.
Superior Court In and For San Joaquin County (1956) 140 Cal.App.2d 71, 83.)

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s filing in Texas is not a “claim”
because it only has one cause of action for declaratory relief. However, this
is the very issue raised in an actively pending motion in the Texas case. As
such, to determine here that Defendant’s filing is not a claim would create a
serious risk of conflicting rulings, which could then lead to the exact same
case proceeding in separate venues.  
 
The contract
expressly provides: “in the event that Customer brings any claim against CSS
under this Agreement, exclusive jurisdiction and venue for such claim shall be
in the state or federal courts situated in the State of Texas, County of
Harris, and in no other court or jurisdiction.” Defendant filed its claim
against Plaintiff in Texas, consistent with the language of the agreement. To
the extent that Plaintiff argues that Defendant has no actual claim and their
dispute should properly be heard in Los Angeles County, this is a determination
for the district Court in Houston to make. Given that this determination is
actively pending and thus will definitively be made, the Court finds no
prejudice will result by staying this action.  

 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a stay of proceedings is granted. 
 
                                                                                                               
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 