 Case Number:  BC409459    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



KENNY BEHNAM KOHANTEB
  
        
  vs.
 
ALL CENTURY, INC., et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  BC409459
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 14, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for preliminary injunction is GRANTED.
 
            On
2/19/2010, judgment was entered in favor of Plaintiff against Defendant Joseph
Boodaie in the amount of $964,709.14.
 
            On
2/3/2020, the judgment was renewed.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction to prevent Defendant from
frustrating the judgment. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
argues that since the entry of judgment, Defendant “has done everything under
the sun to avoid enforcement of Plaintiff’s judgment” (Motion, 1: 5-6.)
Plaintiff contends that he has located a property owned by Defendant in Israel
(the Subject Property) and “while Defendant has been under personal
jurisdiction of this Court for judgment debtor examinations between April 9,
2024 and the present, Defendant has attempted to transfer the Subject Property
to the Third Party but has not been successful in doing so since the Third
Party cannot fly to Israel to accomplish the transfer due to her age.” (Motion,
4: 7-8.) 
 
As a result,
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction restraining and enjoining Defendant
and Third Party and their agents, servants, employees, officers,
representatives, successors, partners, assigns, and any and all persons acting
in concert or participating with them, as follows:
 
1. Signing
any power of attorney to transfer the Subject Property; 
 
2.
Transferring or hypothecating the right, title or interest in the Subject
Property to any other person, entity or trust;
 
3. Taking out
any loans, mortgages, deeds of trust, liens, and/or encumbering the Subject Property;

 
4.
Representing to any third party, including but not limited to any person,
entity, potential buyer, or renter, that Defendant and Third Party have any
rights and/or title to the Subject Property rightfully belonging to Plaintiff;
and, 
 
5. Taking any
further action to perform any construction, major repairs, alter, destroy,
and/or take any action to change the Subject Property.
 
To obtain a
preliminary injunction, a moving party must show that it is likely to succeed
on the merits of its claims, that it will suffer irreparable harm if alleged
conduct is not enjoined, and that its entitlement to an injunction outweighs
any harm to the opposing parties. (Cal. Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Shoemaker v.
County of Los Angeles (1995) 37 Cal. App.4th 618, 624; Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 206.) 
California courts have recognized that injunctive relief is
extraordinary and should only be granted when the stringent requirements for
such relief are met. “The power to issue preliminary injunctions is an
extraordinary one and should be exercised with great caution and only where it
appears that sufficient cause for hasty action exists.” (West v. Lind
(1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 563, 565.) 
 
To justify
“the exercise of the rather extraordinary power to restrain defendant’s actions
prior to a trial on the merits,” a plaintiff must show a real and imminent
threat of “irreparable injury” if injunctive relief is not granted. (Tahoe
Keys Prop. Owners’ Ass’n v. State Water Res. Control Bd. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1471.) An irreparable injury is typically “one for which
either (1) its pecuniary value is not susceptible to monetary valuation, or (2)
the item is so unique its loss deprives the possessor of intrinsic values not
replaceable by money or in kind.” (Jessen v. Keystone Sav. & Loan
Ass’n (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 457.) 
“If monetary damages afford adequate relief and are not extremely
difficult to ascertain, an injunction cannot be granted.” (Thayer Plymouth
Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal. App. 2d 300, 306; see
also Doyka v. Superior Court (1991) 
233 Cal. App. 3d 1134, 1136 (injunction will not issue where “only money
is involved”).
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Defendant is the owner of the Subject
Property pursuant to contract entered for purchase of the Subject Property.
(Kohanteb Decl., ¶6, Ex. 4.) 
 
-        
At the debtor examination on April 9,
2024, Defendant denied owning any real property in Israel, however, confirmed
that the signature for the purchase of the Subject Property was his. (Kohanteb
Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.) 
 
-        
On June 28, 2024, Defendant appeared
for further judgment debtor examination. At the judgment debtor examination,
Defendant confirmed that he had retained an attorney in Israel who assisted him
in purchasing the Subject Property. Defendant further testified that the
Subject Property was purchased under his name to be transferred to the Third
Party, however, refused to provide a copy of the alleged “trust.” Defendant
walked away from the examination without being excused. (Kohanteb Decl., ¶9,
Ex. 7.) 
 
-        
At the judgment debtor examination,
Defendant was also provided his declaration submitted to the Israeli courts
seeking to delay the proceedings so that Defendant has time to effectuate the
transfer of the Subject Property to Third Party. Defendant further alleged that
he was the owner of the Subject Property as of February 2, 2022 and has been
attempting to transfer the Subject Property to Third Party, however Defendant
has failed and continues to fail to provide a copy of the alleged “trust” or a
document signed seeking to transfer the Subject Property. (Kohanteb Decl., ¶10,
Ex. 8.) 
 
-        
Defendant appeared for further judgment
debtor examinations on July 3, 2024, July 11, 2024 and July 18, 2024. In all
instances, Defendant was asked to provide the alleged “trust” or a document
signed seeking to transfer the Subject Property from 2022. Defendant did not
provide any such documents in any of the aforementioned examinations and
continues to refuse to do so. (Kohanteb Decl., ¶11.) 
 
Taken
together, Plaintiff’s evidence indicates that Defendant has been and is
attempting to transfer the Subject Property to a third-party, and supports a
reasonable inference that this is being done to avoid enforcement and execution
of this Court’s judgment abroad. The Court agrees that this preliminary
injunction, which orders both Defendant and Third Party not to execute any
document which will transfer or otherwise hypothecate Defendant’s rights, title
and interest to the Subject Property to Third Party or any other person or
entity is necessary to prevent irreparable harm.
 
Defendant did
not oppose this motion, and thus is considered to have conceded to the motion
on the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction is granted.
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 