 Case Number:  24STCV11638    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GRAND
  PROMENADE 
 
         vs.
 
BERNARDO
  MORETTI 
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV11638 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  August 14, 2024




 
            Defendant’s
motion to quash service of Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            On
5/9/2024, Plaintiff Grand Promenade (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer action
against Benardo Moretti (Defendant). 
 
            On
6/11/2024, Defendant moved to quash Plaintiff’s service of Summons and
Complaint.
 
Discussion 
 
             Defendant, who is representing himself in
properia persona, argues that Plaintiff’s service of him was defective
because he was never personally served. Rather, “on 06/01/2024, [Defendant]
found a packet containing the Unlawful Detainer documents outside his
property.” (Motion, 2: 2-3.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.45
provides that:
            
(a)  
A summons in an action for unlawful
detainer of real property may be served by posting if upon affidavit it appears
to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party
to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in any manner specified
in this article other than publication and that:
 
(1) A cause
of action exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he is a
necessary or proper party to the action; or 
 
(2) The party to be served has or claims an interest in real
property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of the court or the
relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in excluding such
party from any interest in such property. 
(b) The court shall order the summons to be posted on the
premises in a manner most likely to give actual notice to the party to be
served and direct that a copy of the summons and of the complaint be forthwith
mailed by certified mail to such party at his last known address. 
 
(c) Service of summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after posting and mailing.
 
(d)
Notwithstanding an order for posting of the summons, a summons may be served in
any other manner authorized by this article, except publication, in which event
such service shall supersede any posted summons.  
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant was served by post and
mail, rather than via personal service. 
 
As set forth
in the declaration of due diligence from Plaintiff’s process sever, Plaintiff
attempted to serve Defendants several times without success. As a result, on
5/30/2024, Plaintiff moved for an Order to Post (OTP) to request permission to
serve by post and mail. The court granted said application and Plaintiff
thereafter effectuated service of the summons and complaint on 06/03/2024 in
accordance with CCP section 415.45.  
 
When served
by a registered process server, the return itself establishes a presumption of
the facts stated in the therein, affecting the burden of producing evidence.
Evidence Code section 647; see also Palm Property Investments, LLC v.
Yadegar, 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1427-28 (2011) (providing “that where
service is carried out by a registered process server, Evidence Code section
647 applies to eliminate the necessity of calling the process server as a
witness at trial. This conclusion is consistent with the purpose of the
unlawful detainer procedure to afford a relatively simple and speedy remedy for
specific landlord-tenant disputes. [citation omitted]. Accordingly, we conclude
the trial court erred by failing to apply the evidentiary presumption afforded
by Evidence Code 647. The excluded proof of service established that a
registered California process server served the three-day notice.”).
 
Here,
Defendant’s motion, which is based solely on a failure to personally serve him,
is insufficient to overcome the presumption of proper service, given
Plaintiff’s evidence of service in compliance with CCP section 415.45. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to quash is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 