 Case Number:  21STCV34645    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 6, 2023                              TRIAL
DATE:  July 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Prospect Park, LLC, et al.  v. Azealia Banks, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV34645
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO SEAL
 
MOTIONS
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Azealia Banks, et al.; 
Paymon John Vafa, Epulum Law
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO SEAL
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND 
 
            On November
7, 2023, and November 8, 2023, counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainants, Azealia
Banks and Lasagna Girl, LLC, filed Motions to Be Relieved as Counsel  with redactions. 
 
            On November
8, 2023, Defendants filed this Motion For Leave to Seal.  
 
            The motion
is unopposed.[1]
   
II.        LEGAL STANDARD  
 
            A motion or
application to file under seal must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)  “The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: 
 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record;  
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record;  
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;  
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and  
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
            Pursuant to
Rule 2.550(e), “[a]n order sealing the record must: (A) Specifically state the
facts that support the findings; and (B) Direct the sealing of only those
documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents
and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All
other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.”
“Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be
open.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).)  
 
            “A request
to seal a document must be filed publicly and separately from the object of the
request.  It must be supported by a factual declaration or affidavit
explaining the particular needs of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416.) “[A]t a minimum that the party seeking to
seal documents, or maintain them under seal, must come forward with a specific
enumeration of the facts sought to be withheld and specific reasons for
withholding them.”  (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th
879, 894.) 
 
III.        DISCUSSION 
 
            Defendants
move for an order to file under seal the Notice of Motion, proposed Order and
Proof of Service filed in connection with each of the two Motions to be
Relieved of Counsel, and the proof of service for this motion, because Ms.
Banks’s email address, who is a well-known celebrity, appear in the foregoing
documents.  Counsel for Defendants is
concerned that if the e-mail address is placed in the public record, Ms. Banks
will be bombarded with e-mails sent to her personal e-mail address.
 
            An order
granting the motion to seal is unnecessary. Defendants seek only to redact Ms.
Banks’s email address.  Filing redacted
versions of the Notice of Motion, proposed Order and Proof of Service filed in
connection with each of the two Motions to be Relieved of Counsel, and the
proof of service for this motion, will sufficiently address concerns regarding
Ms. Banks’s personal contact information.  (See, e.g., Universal City
Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1284 [holding
that a settlement agreement that contains a confidentiality clause does not
qualify for sealing after all references to financial and other confidential
data have been redacted].)  As such, the
Court finds that there does not exist an overriding interest in the
confidentiality of the foregoing documents relating to Ms. Banks’s personal
e-mail address necessitating a sealing order. 
The information may be redacted.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the Motion for Leave to Seal is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party to give notice.   
 
 
 
MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On November 7, 2023, and November 8, 2023, Paymon John Vafa,
counsel for Defendants and Cross-Complainants, Azealia Banks and Lasagna Girl,
LLC, filed these Motions to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Paymon John Vafa seeks to be relieved as counsel of record
for Defendants/Cross-Complainants for the following reasons: “Irreconcilable
differences that makes it impossible to adequately represent this client.
Client is concerned of her address being public record by filing substitution
of counsel form. If the Court requires more information, counsel Paymon John
Vafa requests an in camera discussion in chambers discussing the matter with no
other counsel present except for client and representative given adequate and
legally proper written consent to appear on behalf of client.”  (MC-052.) 
 
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.)
 
Upon review, the Court finds the Motions comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
            The unopposed
Motions are granted and effective upon the filing of the proof of service 
 
of this signed order upon Defendants/Cross-Complainants. 
 
            Counsel to
give notice.
 
Dated:   December 6,
2023                             




 


   




 


 
  Kerry Bensinger  
 
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 


