 Case Number:  22STCV31257    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 6, 2023                                        TRIAL DATE:  August
5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Gayane Barsegyan v.
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV31257
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF GAYANE BARSEGYAN



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Gayane
Barsegyan
-
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff, Gayane Barsegyan, initiated
this discrimination and wrongful termination action against Defendant, Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center.  
 
            On December
5, 2022, Defendant served Plaintiff with a Notice of Deposition which also
included requests for production of documents. 
Plaintiff timely served a written objection to the deposition stating
that Plaintiff would not appear on the grounds the deposition date “was
unilaterally selected and is inconvenient to Plaintiff’s counsel.”  The objection was not interposed as to the
production requests.
 
            On June 15,
2023, Defendant served an Amended Notice of Deposition which included a similar
request for production of documents.  On
July 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that Plaintiff would not appear for
the deposition because Plaintiff was still waiting on Defendant’s supplemental
responses to discovery and rolling document production.  Defense counsel then asked for Plaintiff’s
availability for deposition in the following two weeks.  On the same day, Plaintiff served a written
objection to the notice stating that Plaintiff would not appear on the grounds
the deposition date “was unilaterally selected and is inconvenient to
Plaintiff’s counsel.”  
 
            On August 10
and 15, 2023, Defendant requested Plaintiff’s availability for deposition.  No response was given.  On August 17, 2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff with a Second Amended Notice of Deposition setting the deposition
date for September 8, 2023.  The notice
included document requests.  On August
31, 2023, Plaintiff served a written objection to the notice stating that
Plaintiff would not appear on the grounds the deposition date “was unilaterally
selected and is inconvenient to Plaintiff’s counsel.”  The objection was not interposed to the
document requests.  Thereafter, defense
counsel requested alternative dates from Plaintiff’s counsel on several
occasions.  No response was given. 
 
            On
September 19, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition.  Defendant requests sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel.
 
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies.
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
            Monetary
Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
 
            “If
a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿ 
¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant is
entitled to an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for deposition.  Defendant first noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition a year ago and twice thereafter. 
Each time, Plaintiff interposed the same frivolous objection that the
deposition dates were “unilaterally selected and is inconvenient to Plaintiff’s
counsel.”  (Barsegyan Decl., Exs. 2, 5,
7.)  Defendant requested alternative
dates, yet Plaintiff’s counsel did not oblige. 
The sum of Plaintiff’s conduct shows a clear attempt to evade being
deposed. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues the motion is frivolous and should be denied for a myriad of reasons.  The arguments lack merit.  
 
             First, Plaintiff states the deposition may
proceed in January or February of 2024. 
However, Plaintiff first made these representations to Defendant in
November of 2023—after this motion was filed. (See Reply, Aslam Decl., Exs. 9,
10.) Plaintiff fails to address Defendant’s multiple attempts to find an
agreeable deposition date.  
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues Defendant failed to meet and confer on all aspects of this
motion.  Plaintiff further argues that
Defendant violated Los Angeles County Superior Court Local Rules, rule 3.26 by
failing to accommodate Plaintiff’s counsel’s schedule.  The argument is meritless.  As discussed above, Defendant met and
conferred over the better part of the year to find a deposition date.  Additionally, Defendant’s written objections
were never interposed as to the production requests.  
                        
            Third,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant is withholding key documents necessary to
prepare Plaintiff for deposition.  However,
it is undisputed that Defendant has produced over 1,000 pages of documents to
date. Yet, Plaintiff fails to identify which documents are necessary and have
yet to be produced.  Nor is it clear that
Plaintiff may resist her deposition on this basis.  “Defendants may serve notice of deposition
any time after they are served or appear in the action. But plaintiffs may not
serve deposition notices until 20 days after service of summons or
appearance of any defendant. [CCP § 2025.210(b)].”  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 8.439, emphasis in original.)  In other words, Section 2025.210 provides that
a defendant may serve a notice of deposition prior to the production of any
document.  
 
            Fourth, Plaintiff
argues she recently retained and associated in new trial counsel who will now
be withdrawing given their caseload.  Plaintiff
has identified and retained new trial counsel who will be filing the relevant
paperwork shortly.  However, Plaintiff retained
counsel when filing this lawsuit.  That
same counsel still represents Plaintiff and filed the opposition to this
motion.  Defendant has attempted to
depose Plaintiff for a year.  Given the foregoing,
the Court is not persuaded that the recent departure and retention of
associated counsel is a valid reason to delay her deposition any further.  Absent a court order, it is not clear that
Plaintiff will appear for deposition.
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant is seeking relief to which it is not entitled.  Specifically, she argues that Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a) authorizes a party to bring a
motion to compel only when the party “fails to appear for examination.”  This argument is specious and based on a
selective citation the statute.  Section
2025.450, subdivision (a) states, in full:
 
If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served
a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
 
(Emphasis added.)  It
is undisputed that Plaintiff objected to the deposition notices on three occasions
for identical reasons.  Given Plaintiff’s
demonstrated failure to provide alternative dates, the Court finds the
objections are not valid.  Plaintiff has
therefore failed to proceed with her properly noticed deposition.  An
order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition is warranted.
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            The parties
each request imposition of sanctions against the other and their counsel.          
Given the foregoing, sanctions are only warranted as to
Plaintiff and her counsel.  Indeed, in the
context of a motion to compel a party’s deposition, sanctions are warranted.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  Pursuant to Hennings, imposition of
monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper unless counsel shows that he
or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.  (Hennings, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)  Plaintiff’s counsel does not meet their burden.
Accordingly, sanctions will be imposed against Plaintiff and her counsel.  As Defendant does not identify a specific
amount, the Court imposes sanctions in the amount of $1,000.  
 
            
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Gayane Barsegyan
is ordered to appear for deposition and to produce documents responsive to the
requests within 20 days of this order.
 
            Defendant’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED.  Sanctions
are imposed against Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, in the sum
of $1,000, to be paid to Defendant, by and through its counsel.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   December 6,
2023                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 