  Case Number:  23STCV21082    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LADREA JOHNSON, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DINGWELL LAW, APC, a California
Corporation, and DOES 1 through 100,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV21084
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES &
  CERTAIN CAUSES OF ACTION FROM PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: August 6,
  2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
DINGWELL LAW, APC (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
LADREA JOHNSON (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of an employment
relationship. Plaintiff’s operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”)
alleges: (1) race discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) harassment on the basis of race in violation of FEHA;
(3) religious discrimination in violation of FEHA; (4) retaliation in violation
of FEHA; (5) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (6) and wrongful termination in violation of public policy.
 
On
May 24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the
third, fourth and fifth causes of action in the SAC.  Defendant concurrently filed a motion to
strike (the “Motion”) portions of the SAC. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 4, 2024, and Defendant filed a
reply on July 16, 2024. 
             
MEET AND CONFER 
The meet and confer requirement has been met for the
Demurrer and the Motion.
             
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
            “The primary function of a pleading is to give the
other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  “A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.)  The Court looks
to whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action
or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) 
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing
a ruling on a
demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth
of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts
that reasonably can be inferred from those
expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice
has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The
court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1358.)
 
            As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
Third Cause of Action
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action in the
SAC, asserting that the SAC still fails to state a cause of action for
discrimination on the basis of religion in violation of FEHA.
 
It is an unlawful employment practice for an
employer to refuse to hire or employ a person, to discharge a person from
employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis of race or religious
creed.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)
 
To establish a claim for discrimination in violation
of FEHA, a plaintiff must generally prove that: (1) he or she was a member of a
protected class; (2) he or she was qualified for the position he or she sought
or was performing competently in the position he or she held; (3) he or she suffered
an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job; and (4) some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory
motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel National,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
The Court, in its April 18, 2024 Minute Order, previously
sustained the demurrer to the third cause of action in the first amended
complaint (“FAC”), finding that “the FAC still fails to allege what adverse
employment action, if any, Plaintiff experienced due to being allegedly forced
to calendar holidays against her religious beliefs.”  (April 18, 2024 Minute Order, p. 5.)  The Court also noted that the FAC did not
include an allegation that Plaintiff was required to observe or acknowledge any
of the holidays on the calendar.
 
In her SAC, Plaintiff included new allegations
claiming that she was compelled to take part in activities related to
celebrating Christmas as a holiday, even though Defendant was aware that it
went against her religious beliefs to observe and celebrate holidays.  Plaintiff claims that she had communicated
her religious beliefs to Defendant.  (SAC,
¶ 74.)  Plaintiff now alleges that in
addition to being asked to complete tasks that were not consistent with her
religion (calendaring holidays), she was required to participate in holiday activities
such as Christmas caroling, holiday decorating, and holiday meals.  (SAC, ¶ 80.)  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that she was
required to “participate in Christmas carol singing, engage in office gift
giving, and eat holiday dinners with the staff’s friends and family.  Further, Plaintiff was required to create
automatic emails indicating on holidays that… ‘we will be observing the holidays and will be closed on…”.  Plaintiff insisted that different terminology
be used.”  (SAC, ¶ 31; SAC, ¶ 75.)
 
Plaintiff further claims that “on December 11, 2022,
Plaintiff engaged in protected activity including but not limited to
complaining to Defendant about the discriminating and harassing conduct
Plaintiff was continuously subjected to… Once Plaintiff complained about the mistreatment
she was enduring, Defendant sent an email firing Plaintiff by telling Plaintiff
she was resigning.”  (SAC, ¶ 89.)  Plaintiff’s job was allegedly terminated
because of Plaintiff’s complaints to Defendant; that is, Plaintiff’s complaints
were a substantial motivating reason for Defendant’s decision to terminate
Plaintiff’s job.  (SAC, ¶ 90-91.)
 
Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff has now sufficiently
pled facts to support religious discrimination in violation of FEHA.  Whether those facts are sufficiently severe to
support this claim is a question for the trier of fact.  The Court, therefore, OVERRULES the Demurrer
as to the third cause of action.
 
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action
The Court notes that the Defendant’s demurrer to the
fourth and fifth cause of action in the FAC was previously overruled.  (April 18, 2024 Minute Order, pp.  6-7.)  Moreover,
to the extent Defendant demurs to these causes of action on the basis of
insufficient allegations of religious discrimination, the Court incorporates
its analysis on the third cause of action above.  The Court, therefore, OVERRULES the Demurrer
as to the fourth and fifth causes of action.
 
Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id.,
§ 436(b).)  The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (Id., § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.)
 
Here, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages and references to punitive damages and religious
discrimination in the SAC. 
 
To
the extent the Motion seeks to strike references to religious discrimination,
the Court incorporates its analysis above pertaining to the demurrer to the
SAC, finding that the SAC has sufficiently alleged discrimination on the basis
of religion.  Accordingly, the MOTION is
DENIED in part.  
 
Punitive Damages
In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set
forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code
section 3294.  (College Hospital, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)¿ These statutory elements
include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿

 
“‘Malice’
“ is defined in the statute as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause
injury to plaintiff, or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ.Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p . 725.) “ ‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.”  (Civ.Code,
§ 3294 subd. (c)(2).) “ ‘Fraud’ “ is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit,
or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on
the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ.Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  (Turman v.
Turning Point Of Central Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. Accord Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 1004,
1055;  Blegen v. Sup. Ct. 
(1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959, 962.) 
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice.  (Smith v. Sup. Ct.
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)  Wrongful
employment termination alone does not support an award of punitive damages, but
also there must be fraud, oppression or malice, such as despicable conduct, or
a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools,
Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-17.) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.’”  (Am.
Airlines v. Sheppard (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 1017, 1051.)
 
Here Plaintiff failed to allege facts supporting punitive
damages.  While the new allegations
viably support a claim for religious discrimination, none of these allegations
are sufficient to establish malice, oppression, or fraud.  
 
Accordingly,
the Motion is GRANTED in part, to the extent that the request for punitive
damages and any references pertaining to punitive damages are stricken from the
SAC.  Because this is the second demurrer
on this issue, the references pertaining to punitive damages are ordered
stricken without leave to amend.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 6th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



