 Case Number:  24VECV00163    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  T JABAITI V STATE FARM
24VECV00163
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant State Farm General Insurance
Company’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint
is DENIED.
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company is ORDERED to file an Answer within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Tariz Jabaiti and Armita
Amini’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  The demurrer placed into issue the second cause
of action (COA) for breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing.  Defendant separately moved to strike
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
Discussion 
At the July 29, 2024 hearing on
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC), the Court ruled that
there were insufficient facts to plead the bad faith COA because there were
insufficient facts to allege unreasonable delay or bad faith conduct.  Despite Defendant’s contention otherwise, the
new factual allegations highlighted a claim that was made in the FAC.  Plaintiffs’ new allegations highlight the
claim of bias.  (SAC pars. 22,
24-25.)  Plaintiffs alleged that
Defendant’s expert, Zane Street, conducted an investigation on February 9, 2023
wherein Mr. Street displayed hostility toward Plaintiffs’ representatives and
refused to acknowledge discrepancies in flooring height and wear layer.  (SAC par. 25.)  Plaintiffs alleged that Mr. Street stated,
“that I [Zareh Keosian] had a bad attitude. He [Mr. Street] said that if I had
behaved differently, he would have had different conversations with us.” (SAC
par. 22.)  Allegations of a biased
investigation or biased expert are proper grounds to allege unreasonableness
and bad faith.  (Brehm v. 21st Century
Insurance Co. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1239-1240.)  Defendant argued that these facts only amount
to a disagreement in coverage/benefits. 
However, the Court does not agree with Defendant.  The factual allegations are sufficient to
allege a bias.  Because of the
allegations of a biased expert and/or investigation, Plaintiffs sufficiently
pleaded facts to show Defendant’s unreasonableness and bad faith conduct.
The demurrer to the second COA is
OVERRULED.  
Defendant moved to strike the
request for punitive damages.  Defendant
argued that the request is not supported by any viable COA.  However, as reviewed in the analysis on the
demurrer, the Court found that the bad faith COA is sufficiently pled and
viable.  Defendant’s first argument to
strike punitives is unpersuasive.
Defendant then argued that the
SAC failed to allege facts to support malice, oppression, or fraud.  However, the allegations that Defendant’s
expert being allegedly biased is sufficient to support the element of malice.  The alleged biased investigation is
sufficient to provide fact pleading to support the element of despicable
conduct and a willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights.  As reviewed in the analysis of the demurrer,
the SAC sufficiently alleged facts to show conduct that is more than a
disagreement in coverage/benefits.
The motion to strike punitive
damages is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.