 Case Number:  23VECV05748    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  T TESSEROLI V CORAL WOOD
23VECV05748
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Coral Wood Court Community
Partners, LP’s Demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND only as to Plaintiffs Acioli
Tesseroli and Cristhal Tesseroli.  Leave
to amend is limited to curing the pleading defects identified and is not
granted to add any new causes of action.
Defendant Coral Wood Court
Community Partners, LP’s Demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the Second
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND only as to Plaintiffs
Leonardo Tesseroli, a minor; Leya Tesseroli, a minor; Lorelei Tesseroli, a
minor; and Luke Tesseroli, a minor 
Introduction 
Defendant Coral Wood Court
Community Partners, LP (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Aciolo Tesseroli;
Maria Libano; Cristhal Tesseroli; Leonardo Tesseroli, a minor; Leya Tesseroli,
a minor; Lorelei Tesseroli, a minor; and Luke Tesseroli’s, a minor (collectively,
Plaintiffs) Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
The demurrer placed into issue the seventh cause of action (COA) for
violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) (Gov. Code, sec. 12900,
et seq.).
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the FEHA
violation COA failed to allege sufficient facts to allege that Plaintiffs are
“aggrieved persons” as defined by FEHA because the alleged “aggrieved person”,
Maria Libano (Libano), is no longer a party to the action.  (Gov. Code, sec. 12927(g); Sisemore v. Master
Financial, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1386, 1424 (Sisemore).)  Plaintiffs alleged that Libano had a
disability (i.e., wheelchair).  (SAC par.
19.)  Plaintiff requested installation of
grab bars in the bathroom; disabled parking; and a ramp but Defendant
failed/refused to accommodate.  (SAC par.
24.U.)  Libano passed away in January
2024 and was removed as a party-plaintiff. 
(SAC par. 5.)  
The Court does not find Sisemore
applicable to the facts alleged in the instant action because Sisemore involved
a standing issue as to a fair housing organization, Project Sentinel, Inc.  The Sisemore opinion held that the fair
housing organization had standing to sue under FEHA (i.e., an aggrieved person)
because it had sufficiently alleged facts showing injury in fact.  Project Sentinel, Inc. suffered injury in
fact because it had diverted its scarce resources to address the defendant's
allegedly discriminatory conduct (i.e., Project Sentinel, Inc. sent a
“tester”).  (Sisemore, supra, 151
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1394 and 1424-1426.) 
Sisemore is not applicable to the instant action because Sisemore
involved the standing of “testers” and the instant action does not allege any
facts regarding “testers”.  
The protected class under FEHA is
not limited to persons who actually possess the protected characteristic (i.e.,
Libano being disabled and/or use of a wheelchair).  The protected class also includes “a
perception that the person has any of those characteristics or that the person
is associated with a person who has, or is perceived to have, any of those
characteristics.”  (Gov. Code, sec.
12955(m) (bolding added); see also Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205,
1216-1217.)  The mere fact that Libano passed
away and was removed from the action is not sufficient to dismiss the FEHA
claim.  Plaintiffs are expressly alleged
to be Libano’s family members and sharing in the same rental property.  These facts show that Plaintiffs’ are
associated with Libano.  Because
Plaintiffs are alleged to be associates of Libano, Plaintiffs are part of the
protected class.  
However, an “aggrieved person”
requires an injury caused by the discriminatory housing practice.  (Gov. Code, sec. 12927(g).)  Although Plaintiffs alleged that the failure
to install bars and a ramp and designate a personal handicap parking space made
the care of Libano difficult, such allegations are insufficient to plead an
injury in fact because pain and suffering are not considered actual injuries.  The SAC fails to allege facts to plead how
Plaintiffs were injured in fact.  It
would be apparent that Libano’s injury would be the lack of or limitations in
accessing her residence.  However, it is
unclear how Plaintiffs, as associates of Libano, suffered actual injury.  Because of the failure to plead facts showing
Plaintiffs’ actual injury, the demurrer is found to be persuasive.  
Plaintiffs argued that Acioli
Tesseroli and Cristhal Tesseroli, only, can cure the pleading defect and can
allege facts showing actual injury. 
Leave to amend is granted only as to Plaintiffs Acioli Tesseroli and Cristhal
Tesseroli.
The demurrer to the seventh COA
of the SAC is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND only as to Plaintiffs Acioli
Tesseroli and Cristhal Tesseroli.  
The demurrer to the seventh COA
of the SAC is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiffs Leonardo
Tesseroli, a minor; Leya Tesseroli, a minor; Lorelei Tesseroli, a minor; and
Luke Tesseroli, a minor.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.