On November 24, 2021, Plaintiff Employers Assurance Company filed a Complaint for breach of contract against Defendant E and J Wood Finish.  Plaintiff alleges that it provided workers’ compensation insurance to Defendant; that “[a]fter audit, Plaintiff has determined the total premium and fees for the effective period for the 2020 Policy to be an additional $81,194.12”; and that Defendant failed to challenge or pay this amount.Plaintiff Employers Assurance Company now seeks summary judgment on its Complaint.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Plaintiff contends that it “issued the 2020 Policy to E and J Wood Finish, a Corporation. [UFN 1.] The 2020 Policy is an audited variable basis premium policy providing statutorily-mandated workers compensation and employers liability insurance which means that the actual, total premium adjustment is determined after the expiration or cancellation of the insurance policy in question. [UFN 2.] Employers Assurance Company seeks by written invoice to recover additional premium in the principal sum of $81,194.12 due under the 2020 Policy. [UFN 3, 4, 5.] The evidence is undisputed, by matters deemed admitted, that E and J Wood Finish, a corporation owes the unpaid premium due on the 2020 Policy. [UFN 7.] Prejudgment interest is due in the sum of $23,519.34 (based on $22.23 per day from March 10, 2021 through February 1,2024 [1,058 days] using the legal rate of 10% per annum). [UFN 8, 9.]”Defendant’s memorandum of authorities simply states that the attached declaration should be enough to defeat the instant Motion.  One declaration was provided by Elizabeth Aparicio.  It says only that “[t]here were errors in the audit process which led to an incorrect and excessively high amount being charged. When conducting the audit, the auditor made repeated references to things being incorrect.  Our premiums for the prior year were substantially less than the audited amount even though nothing had changed. Accordingly, the audit was incorrect.”The Opposition fails to explain what was incorrect about the audit, let alone the identity of Aparicio and her basis for having personal knowledge of these matters.Plaintiff has sufficiently come forth with evidence that a variable policy existed between the parties; that an audit was done; and that the audit showed that Defendant owed an additional $81,194.12 on the subject policy.  The Opposition fails to indicate how the audit was incorrect, and, therefore, triable issues have not been shown.Also, on December 5, 2022, the Court deemed admitted Plaintiff’s requests for admission.Thus, the Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.  A proposed judgment is to be filed within ten days.Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.