This is a medical malpractice action.  Defendant Shuo Steven Wang seeks to bifurcate the issue of the statute of limitations from all other matters in this case for the purposes of trial.Plaintiffs contend that they do not oppose bifurcation of the statute of limitations in general, but would oppose such a bifurcation if the only statute of limitations argument being asserted by Wang is the propriety of the doe amendment, which is a matter the Court already ruled upon.“Whether separate actions shall be consolidated for trial, or whether there shall be a severance and separate trials of issues in a single action, is within the discretion of the trial court.”  (Mellone v. Lewis (1965) 233 Cal.App.2d 4, 7, quoting McArther v. Shaffer (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 724, 727.)  The objectives of bifurcated trials are to “expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888), and “avoidance of the waste of time and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases where the liability issue was resolved against the plaintiff.”  (Plaza Tulare v. Tradewell Stores, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 522, 524.)Code Civ. Proc. § 597.5 states, “In an action against a physician or surgeon, dentist, registered nurse, dispensing optician, optometrist, registered physical therapist, podiatrist, licensed psychologist, osteopathic physician and surgeon, chiropractor, clinical laboratory bioanalyst, clinical laboratory technologist, veterinarian, or a licensed hospital as the employer of any such person, based upon the person's alleged professional negligence, or for rendering professional services without consent, or for error or omission in the person's practice, if the answer pleads that the action is barred by the statute of limitations, and if any party so moves or the court upon its own motion requires, the issues raised thereby must be tried separately and before any other issues in the case are tried. If the issue raised by the statute of limitations is finally determined in favor of the plaintiff, the remaining issues shall then be tried.”On July 17, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to identify Doe 1 as Shuo Steven Wang, M.D.A plaintiff may file an action against a doe defendant when she is “ignorant of the name of a defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 474.) “When a defendant is properly named under section 474, the amendment relates back to the filing date of the original complaint.”  (McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 371.)On November 6, 2023, the Court denied Wang’s motion to quash the doe amendment.  Wang contended the amendment was improper and time-barred.  The Court rejected this.If the only issue that Wang seeks to have tried separately is the propriety of the doe amendment, the Motion to Bifurcate is denied because that issue has already been conclusively determined.  If there is some other statute of limitations issue, then the Motion to Bifurcate will be granted per Code Civ. Proc. § 597.5.  This matter will be further discussed at the Motion hearing.  Wang’s Reply was unclear and unhelpful.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 