This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Lisa Hollis seeks to seal her compendium of exhibits in support of her opposition to Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center’s summary judgment/adjudication motion.  Plaintiff contends that Defendant marked these exhibits as confidential and that they are subject to a protective order.Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)Here, no reason is given to substantiate a confidentiality interest in the subject documents, and the existence of a protective order is alone insufficient to justify a sealing order.  It’s also important to note that any sealing must be narrowly tailored and it is highly improbable that every word of the subject 36 exhibits should be redacted.  Plaintiff also contends that sealing is justified because it’s the only way to hide the information from jurors, who could easily view the exhibits from the Court’s docket.  This lacks merit.  Jurors are specifically instructed (multiple times) not to do any extraneous investigation and, under Plaintiff's reasoning, a sealing order would be required in nearly every case.There currently being no justification for a sealing order, the Motion is denied without prejudice.  The documents will remain lodged under seal for the time-being, unless Plaintiff will not pursue another motion to seal.The Court orders that the parties email all of the redacted documents they file to the Court’s research attorney at cmoslemi@lacourt.org.  This order stands for the entirety of this case and includes the compendium currently at issue.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 