  Case Number:  23PSCV02395    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  H Rizo v. 555 Vinton Avenue
Land, LLC, et al., Case No. 23PSCV02395


TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANTS’ PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE
 
While the parties have now come to
agreement as to a deposition date, it is unclear to the Court whether the
parties have resolved their differences with respect to the categories of
knowledge and document production requests set forth in Plaintiff’s various notices of deposition, to
which Defendants interposed objections. The Court will hear further from
counsel at the time of the hearing as to the status of the document production
requests and objections and as to whether a continuance of the hearing date is
necessary. As to the issue of sanctions, the Court is inclined to order
Defendants to reimburse Plaintiff in the total amount of $1,391.94 ($731.94 for
court reporter fees, 1.5 hours in attorney fees spent preparing the instant
motion at $400.00/hour, and the $60.00 filing fee).
 
 
Background
Plaintiff Ernesto Rizo (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he sustained injuries
in an August 30, 2021 slip and fall near one of the gas pumps at 555 Vinton
Avenue in Pomona (the “premises”).
On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against 555 Vinton Avenue Land, LLC, 555 Vinton, LLC, Chevron U.S.A.,
Inc. (Chevron”), and Does 1-20 for (1) general negligence and (2) premises
liability.
On November 29,
2023, Plaintiff dismissed Chevron, without prejudice.
A Post/Mediation
Status Conference/Case Management Conference is set for March 19, 2025.
Pending before the
Court is Plaintiff’s motion to compel 555
Vinton Avenue Land, LLC and 555 Vinton, LLC dba Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (together,
“Defendants”) to produce a Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) for deposition.
 
Legal Standard
“If the deponent
named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with
reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that
event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.230).
“If, after service
of a deposition notice, . . . a person designated by an organization that is a
party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection. . .,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)
“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following:
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2) The motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. . ., or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating
that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction. . ., unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Any motion involving
the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be
accompanied by a separate statement providing all information necessary to
understand each discovery request and all the responses at issue. (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a), (c).)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
Court for an order compelling Defendants’
PMK to appear and provide testimony pursuant to the “Amended Notice of
Deposition of Defendants’ Person Most Knowledgeable” served September 24, 2024.
Plaintiff also seeks an award of $2,791.94 against Defendants and/or their
counsel of record.

Procedural Deficiencies
At the outset, the
Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion is not accompanied by a California Rules of
Court rule 3.1345 separate statement.
 
Merits
Plaintiff’s counsel
Victor Cruz (“Cruz”) represents, and/or
the accompanying exhibits reflect, as follows:
          On June 26, 2024,
Plaintiff served Defendants with a “Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendants’
Person(s) Most Qualified and Request for Production of Documents” (“Notice”),
setting the deposition for July 10, 2024. (Cruz Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On July 2,
2024, Defendants served an objection to the Notice. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. B.)
          On July 3, 2024, Cruz
emailed Defendants’ counsel, requesting available dates for deposition in
mid/late August. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. C.) On August 2, 2024, having not heard back,
Cruz sent a follow-up email to Defendants’ counsel, requesting available dates
for deposition in September. (Id.) On September 14, 2024, Cruz emailed
Defendants’ counsel again with the following proposed dates for the deposition:
October 2, 3, 7, or 9. (Id.) Cruz asked Defendants’ counsel for alternate dates
if the above dates did not work. (Id.) On September 19, 2024, Cruz emailed
Defendants’ counsel and advised that if he did not receive a response to his
prior email by September 23, he would schedule the deposition for October 9. (Id.)
          Cruz did not receive a
response from Defendants’ counsel; as such, on September 24, 2024, he served an
“Amended Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendants’ Person(s) Most Qualified
and Request for Production of Documents” (“Amended Notice”) for October 9,
2024. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. D.) On October 2, 2024, Defendants served an objection to
the Amended Notice. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. E.) On October 4, 2024, Cruz emailed
Defendants’ counsel and advised that he was leaving the October 9, 2024
deposition on calendar and would take a “Certificate of Non-Appearance,” if
needed; he did not receive a response. (Id., ¶¶ 7 and 8, Exhs. F and G.) On
October 9, 2024, Cruz took a “Certificate of Non-Appearance.” (Id., ¶ 8, Exh.
G.)
Defendants’ counsel Erika Stecker (“Stecker”), in response, concedes
that Plaintiff has been diligent in attempting to take Defendants’ PMK
deposition, but represents that Defendants had difficulties in identifying and
ultimately contacting the appropriate PMK to produce for deposition. (Stecker
Decl., ¶¶ 3 and 4.)  Stecker represents
that Defendants’ difficulties were compounded by the PMK’s international
travel. (Id., ¶ 5.) Stecker advises that Plaintiff’s counsel has since been
provided with available dates (namely, January 14, 16, 17, 21, and 22). (Id., ¶
5, Exh. 1.)
Cruz, in reply, advises that Plaintiff has now noticed the deposition
for January 16, one of the dates proposed by Stecker, but requests that the
Court order that the deposition occur on this date, given the history of this
matter. (Cruz Reply Decl., ¶¶ 2 and 3, Exhs. A and B.) Cruz reasserts
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions of $2,791.94.
It appears to the Court that the parties have resolved the date of the
PMK deposition. However, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the parties
have resolved their differences with respect to the categories of knowledge and
document production requests set forth in Plaintiff’s various notices of
deposition, to which Defendants interposed objections. Plaintiff did not file a
separate statement with the instant motion, nor did he identify any meet-and-confer
efforts made with respect to these objections. The parties’ briefing, moreover,
is devoid of any discussion regarding the document production requests and
objections. The Court will hear further from counsel at the time of the hearing
in this regard.
As to the issue of sanctions, the Court is inclined to order Defendants
to reimburse Plaintiff in the amount of $731.94 for court reporter fees, plus
1.5 hours in attorney fees at $400.00/hour preparing the instant motion and
plus the $60.00 filing fee, for a total of $1,391.94. 