  Case Number:  21STCV44259    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  61 HEXADYNE CORPORATION, A DELAWARE CORPORATION vs MASON ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC., A DELAWARE CORPORATIONTENTATIVECross-Defendants Hexadyne Corporation and Robert Sanchez’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED.Cross-Defendants Hexadyne Corporation and Robert Sanchez’s Motion to Sever Trial is DENIED.Defendant / Cross-Complainant Mason Electric Company, Inc to provide notice.DISCUSSIONPROTECTIVE ORDER “When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) The party moving for the order must make a showing of good cause to spare them from “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (b).) A party responding to interrogatories may seek a protective order upon similar terms. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.090.)Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants Hexadyne Corporation (Hexadyne) and Robert Sanchez (Sanchez) seek a protective order barring Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mason Electric Company, Inc. (Mason) from conducting pre-trial discovery into Sanchez’s alleged alter ego relationship with Hexadyne, on the grounds that the discovery on the subject propounded hereto is premature and invasive. (Motion at pp. 7–10.)Hexadyne argues that because a judgment creditor may seek to add a defendant to a judgment via the alter ego doctrine after judgment is entered, discovery into Sanchez’s alleged alter ego relationship with Hexadyne is premature. (Motion at pp. 7–9.) Hexadyne relies on the case Greenspan v. LADT LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, for the proposition that a plaintiff should not “engage in pretrial discovery in an attempt to establish alter ego liability.” (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 517.)This argument is unpersuasive. The authority that Hexadyne cites does not stand for the proposition that pre-trial discovery into alter ego issues is impermissible. That case held that a party prevailing in arbitration was not prevented from later adding another party to the arbitration judgment as a judgment debtor via the alter ego theory. (Greenspan, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at pp. 517–518.) The court held that the judgment creditor was not barred from doing so by res judicata, and stated that a contrary rule would encourage parties to plead meritless alter ego theories against corporate owners at the outset of every case:An arbitration or civil suit is intended to determine liability and damages on specified causes of action, not to resolve hypothetical problems the plaintiff might face in collecting on a judgment. In this case, Greenspan had no reason to name the Shy parties as defendants in the original suit. As a result, the discovery concerning alter ego issues, in the form of judgment debtor proceedings, occurred after the judgment was obtained. But under the trial court's reasoning, the plaintiff in every corporate contract case would be encouraged—regardless of the circumstances—to sue not only the corporation but also its owners and affiliated companies and then engage in pretrial discovery in an attempt to establish alter ego liability. This would promote a fishing expedition into alter ego evidence before the plaintiff obtained a favorable judgment, if at all. Thus, it may be prudent for a plaintiff to sue only the corporation. Should problems later arise in satisfying a judgment against the corporation, the plaintiff may resort to appropriate postjudgment proceedings, including section 187's procedure for adding judgment debtors. Of course, if before filing suit, the plaintiff reasonably believes that an alter ego relationship exists among various individuals and companies, the complaint should probably include alter ego allegations and name the alleged alter egos as defendants. In the present case, however, when the complaint was filed, Greenspan had no reason to suspect the existence of an alter ego relationship among Shy, the trustee, and the limited liability companies. (Greenspan, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at pp. 517–518, internal citations omitted.) The case said nothing about the permissibility of pretrial discovery where alter ego theories have properly been pleaded and are at issue. Hexadyne presents no authority for the proposition that pretrial discovery on alter ego issues is impermissible, or even disfavored. And Mason presents authority suggesting such discovery is permissible, because “information as to the financial condition of a corporate defendant is admissible and discoverable before trial in an action involving an alter ego issue.” (Doak v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968) 257 Cal.App.2d 825, 835, fn. 8.) Thus Mason may seek pretrial discovery concerning the alleged alter ego relationship between Sanchez and Hexadyne.Hexadyne next argues that the discovery at issue impermissibly intrudes upon the privacy of Sanchez and his family, because Mason seeks payments made by Hexadyne to Sanchez and his family members, and agreements between Hexadyne and Sanchez or his family members, (Motion Exh. A, C.) The requests also sought information concerning Sanchez’s ownership interest in Hexadyne and other companies. (Motion Exh. P.)In determining whether privacy interests warrant restricting discovery, the court must perform a balancing of interests: “If there is a reasonable expectation of privacy and the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing or countervailing interests, which include the interest of the requesting party, fairness to the litigants in conducting the litigation, and the consequences of granting or restricting access to the information.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1251.) The right of privacy provides protection to individuals’ personal financial information. (See Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711–12.)The balance of the privacy interests at issue here against the reason for the discovery sought favors permitting the discovery to take place. Sanchez and his family have a privacy interest in their private personal finances. But the discovery at issue does not make a sweeping inquiry of their individual finances. It rather seeks specifically information relating to payments or agreements made between them and Hexadyne. This information is relevant to determination of the alter ego issue. (See Greenspan, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 512 [describing among alter ego factors the “[c]ommingling of funds and other assets”].)Hexadyne in reply argues that there no alter ego discovery should be conducted because Mason cannot prevail on its alter ego claims. (Reply at pp. 6–8.) This evidence and argument are not set out in Hexadyne’s motion, and Mason has had no opportunity to respond. Moreover, a motion for protective order is not the appropriate vehicle to obtain relief based on the argument that an asserted claim lacks substantive merit.Hexadyne also asks this court to “permit the parties to meet and confer to discuss narrowing the scope of Mason’s requests.” (Motion at p. 10.) No order of the court is necessary to permit the parties to informally meet and confer.The motion is DENIED.MOTION TO SEVER TRIAL"The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action . . . or of any separate issue . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) Additionally, “[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)“It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials of actions, such as for breach of contract and bad faith, and to determine the order in which those issues are to be decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.) “The major objective of bifurcated trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)Plaintiff Hexadyne Corporation (Plaintiff) moves to bifurcate trial and try its claim for quasi-contract in a bench trial before jury trial on Defendant Mason Electric’s crossclaims. (Motion at pp. 8–15.) Plaintiff argues that the quasi-contract claim is equitable in nature and therefore ought to be tried by the court before Defendant’s legal claims. (Motion at pp. 2–4.) Plaintiff argues that its claims are ready for trial and that Defendant’s crossclaims, filed only this year, are not ready, and their preparation should not delay Plaintiff’s claims. (Motion at pp. 5–6.)However, the context of the motion has changed as the opposing and reply papers were filed. Defendant opposes severance, and favors a unified jury trial on all claims, arguing that Plaintiff’s claim for quasi-contract is in fact legal, not equitable, in nature. (Opposition at pp. 8–11.) Defendant also states it is amenable to a short continuance of trial to allow for hearing on Plaintiff’s pending demurrer and protective order. (Opposition at p. 2 fn. 1, 7–8.) But Plaintiff in reply contends that a consolidated jury trial is actually its preferred form of proceeding, and that Defendant earlier rejected a proposed continuance to allow for this form of proceeding. (Reply at pp. 9–10.)Meanwhile, on October 14, 2024, the pending trial date was vacated, and trial setting conference was set for October 23, 2024.The parties are therefore in agreement that the claims should be tried together, and that if they are not presently ready for trial, a continuance of trial should be ordered. No party desires severance of the claims.Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.