  Case Number:  22STCV23823    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
5, 2024                     TRIAL DATE: 
Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Monique Cooper v. B. Ruth Allen, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV23823
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Monique Cooper, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant B. Ruth
Allen
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On July 25, 2022, Plaintiff, Monique Cooper, filed a Complaint
against Defendants, B. Ruth Allen, Leonard F. Delpit, and Charles S. Clark, for
wrongful eviction.  The Complaint was
partially handwritten and included exhibits that were not clearly referenced in
the allegations.  Plaintiff was
self-represented at the time of the filing of the Complaint.  
 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave
to file the proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The motion was heard on November 28,
2023.  Defendant B. Ruth Allen correctly
pointed out that the proposed FAC was not attached to the motion.  The Court also noted that although the
proposed pleading was separately filed with the Court on September 5, 2023, there
was no proof of service showing the proposed pleading was served on
Defendants.  As such, the Court continued
the hearing for this motion to January 5, 2024 and directed Plaintiff to file
an amended motion with the proposed FAC. 

 
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended motion and proof
of service.  No opposition has been filed
to the amended motion.
 
The Court now rules as follows:
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The court may, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any party, or correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend
be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy
of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of
the proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be applied
only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A
different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
A motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and must state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(b).)¿ 
 
In ruling on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the
court does not consider the merits of the proposed amendment, because “the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend
where the proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action
or defense, such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be
cured by further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired
or the insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274,
280-281, disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to file the proposed FAC.  The proposed pleading adds claims for
Negligent Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability, Intentional Breach of
the Implied Warranty of Habitability, Nuisance (Negligent), Nuisance
(Intentional), Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Use and
Enjoyment, Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty, Retaliation/Constructive
Eviction, and Child Endangerment, as well as factual and legal
allegations.  Additionally, although not
explicitly stated in the motion, Plaintiff seeks to add her grandson, Jayon
Levon, as a plaintiff, and B. Ruth Allen Trust as a defendant.  The foregoing parties, claims, and
allegations were left out of the Complaint because Plaintiff’s counsel, having
only recently substituted into this case, was unable to review the pleading
before it was filed.  As such, Plaintiff
contends it is in the interests of justice that leave be granted to file the
proposed FAC
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to an order granting leave to file the proposed pleading.  Moreover, Plaintiff has cured the defect
noted in the Court’s previous order. 
Plaintiff filed an amended motion with the proposed FAC attached and has
included proof of service to Defendants. 
The motion now complies with the requirements of California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1342(a).  Further, as the amended motion is unopposed, the
Court finds no prejudice will result if leave is granted to file the proposed FAC. 

 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint is deemed filed on September 5, 2023.
 
            Defendants
are to file and serve their responsive pleading within 30 days of the date of
this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   January 5, 2024                                 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 
 