 Case Number:  22STCV35085    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   AURICE VELOSO,   Plaintiff, v.  LEO DAVID, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22STCV35085     Hearing Date:  November 15, 2023      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT LEO DAVID’S    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE   FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND    MOTION FOR SANCTIONS         BACKGROUND This case arises from claims of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  Plaintiff Aurice Veloso was employed by Defendant Leo David as a caregiver for his wife.  Plaintiff alleges that David asked her to sleep with him in exchange for improved working conditions and other financial incentives including a house, car and tuition.  David also allegedly made offensive remarks about Plaintiff’s menstrual period, personal hygiene and sexual activity.  Plaintiff further alleges that despite her working around the clock, she was not compensated for overtime or provided rest and meal breaks.  David then terminated Plaintiff when she opposed his alleged discrimination and harassment.   Defendant paid Plaintiff’s wages through various companies he owned, including XCVI, LLC (“XCVI”), Construction for Less, Inc. (CFL), AMLease Corporation, and Tri-Net HR II, Inc..  Plaintiff is suing these corporate defendants as “joint employers.”  Plaintiff alleges these corporate defendants ratified and adopted the conduct of David.    The operative complaint alleges claims for: (1) violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (3) violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5; (4) violations of California Wage & Hour Laws and Regulations; (5) assault and battery; (6) breach of oral and implied contract; (7) false promise/intentional misrepresentation; (8) promissory estoppel, (9) violations of Business and Professions Code Section 17200, and (10) unjust enrichment.     This hearing is on David’s demurrer and motion to strike the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  David demurs (1) to the FEHA claims (first to fifth causes of action) on the ground Plaintiff has not adequately plead she exhausted her administrative remedies and David is not an employer subject to FEHA, (2) to the entire complaint, on grounds that the claims are time-barred, (3) to any claims that David is the alter ego of XCVI and CFL because there is no allegation that David owns XCVI or CFL, (4) to all the claims on the ground they are vague and uncertain, and (5) to the claims for unjust enrichment and promissory estoppel because they were added without leave of Court.   David also moves to strike (1) Plaintiff’s new claims for unjust enrichment and promissory estoppel because Plaintiff did not seek leave to add the claims, (2) “sham” allegations that purportedly contradict allegations in the prior complaint in this action and a cross-complaint in a related action, (3) purportedly “irrelevant” allegations relating to David’s wealth, medical condition, and counsel’s alleged romantic relationship with David, (4) citations to and descriptions of legal authorities, and (5) Plaintiff’s prayer for specific performance on the grounds legal remedies are adequate; there are no contracts to be enforced; the alleged “promises” by David are too vague and indefinite and are not enforceable; and Plaintiff has not pled a mutuality of remedies.  LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.  A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)  The term uncertain includes the issue of whether the pleading is “ambiguous and unintelligible.”  (Id.)  A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)¿ The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d), the Court may take judicial notice of any official acts of state agencies.  Under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d), a court may take¿judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this case or (2) any¿court of record¿of the United States or of any state of the United States.” (Evid. Code § 452(d).)  Pursuant to § 453, the court must take judicial notice of any matter specified in¿§452¿if a party requests it and: “(a)¿Gives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and (b)¿Furnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of the matter.”  (Evid. Code § 453.)  David requests judicial notice of (1) the Court’s tentative order on XCVI’s and CFL’s prior demurrer to the original complaint, (2) a cross-complaint filed by Plaintiff in a related action brought by David against Plaintiff, in Case No. 22SMCV01934, (3) Plaintiff’s original complaint filed in this action, (4) the Court’s tentative order on XCVI and CFL’s demurrer and motion to strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, and (5) Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint filed in this action.  The Court grants David’s request for judicial notice (“RJN”) pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(d) and 453. Veloso requests judicial notice of (1) her DEFH administrative charges filed on October 31, 2022, May 9, 2023 and October 26, 2023, (2) FEHA forms used by the DFEH, (3) Veloso’s original complaint against David, (4) Veloso’s first amended complaint against David, (5) David’s original complaint against Veloso, (6) the Court’s minute order dated September 19, 2023, (7) Wilson Combs v. California Dept of Consumer Affairs, No. CIV. 07-2097 WBS DAD (E.D. Cal. May 13, 2008), and (8) a copy of the Court’s official docket in the present case.  The Court grants Veloso’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(c), 452(d), and 453.      DISCUSSION Entire Complaint (Statute of Limitations) David argues that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred.  The Court disagrees.   Plaintiff may avoid the¿statute of limitations under the continuing violation doctrine, which “aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for purposes of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations period as accruing for all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of them.”  (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192.)  Here, the last alleged wrong was Plaintiff’s termination on September 14, 2022.   Even if the continuing violation doctrine is unavailable, Plaintiff may still avoid the statute of limitations under the theory of continuous accrual, in which “a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the applicable limitations period.”  (Id.)  In that case, at least some of Plaintiff’s claims are timely, and a demurrer cannot be made to part of a claim (Kong, 108 Cal. App. 4th at 1047). David argues that the continuing violation doctrine does not apply because Veloso pleads no dates in the FAC, so it is impossible to determine whether any of Veloso’s claims fall within the applicable statute of limitations period such that other claims that are time-barred may be tolled.  Defendants’ argument ignores Plaintiff’s allegation that she was unlawfully terminated on September 14, 2022.  This means at least part of Veloso’s claims fall within the applicable statute of limitations period.   David also argues that the continuing violation doctrine applies only to FEHA claims.  But the California Supreme Court did not restrict this doctrine to FEHA cases.  It said the doctrine predates FEHA and is part of the common law.  The continuing violation doctrine is “derived from the doctrine of equitable tolling.” (Richards v. CH2M¿Hill,¿Inc., 26 Cal.4th at 813.)  It “has been applied in a wide variety of circumstances.”  (Velazquez v. Chardon¿(1st Cir. 1984) 736 F.2d 831, 833.)  Courts apply it in Title VII cases. (42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.;¿National R.R. Passenger Corp. v. Morgan¿(2002) 536 U.S. 101, 117.)¿ “It applies with equal force to the Rehabilitation Act and to actions arising under other civil rights laws.” (Cherosky v. Henderson¿(9th Cir. 2003) 330 F.3d 1243, 1246, fn. 3.)  It is also used in environmental, antitrust¿and common law tort cases. (Moseke v. Miller and Smith, Inc. (E.D. Va. 2002) 202 F. Supp. 2d 492, 504;¿Murray v. Oceanside Unified School Dist.¿(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1363.)¿   Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer on statute of limitations grounds.  FEHA Claims (First to Fifth Causes of Action) David next argues that Plaintiff’s FEHA claims fail because the complaint fails to adequately allege that Plaintiff exhausted her administrative remedies, and he is not subject to FEHA.  The Court agrees in part. To pursue a FEHA claim, an employee must first exhaust administrative remedies by filing a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) within “three years from the date upon which the unlawful practice … occurred” and obtaining a notice of the right to sue from DFEH.  (See Cal. Gov’t Code § 12960(e)(5), Blum v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 418, 422; Medix Ambulance Service Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 109, 116.)  An employee must then file suit “within one year after the filing of a complaint” with the DFEH.  (Cal. Gov’t Code §12965(a)(5)(C).)   The complaint to the DFEH must (1) “describe the unlawful conduct,” (2) include a “description of the alleged act or acts of discrimination, harassment or retaliation” and (3) include the “date of the most recent alleged act of discrimination, harassment or retaliation.”  Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 2 §10002.  The scope of the DFEH complaint is important as it “defines the scope of the subsequent civil action.”  (Rodriguez v. Airborne Express, 265 F.3d 890, 896 (9th Cir. 2001).)  “Allegations in a complaint that fall outside the scope of the administrative charge are barred for failure to exhaust.”  (Okoli v. Lockheed¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1607, 1617.)   It is Plaintiff’s burden to plead timely exhaustion of administrative remedies.  (Kim v. Konad USA Distribution Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1336, 1345.)  “In order to withstand a demurrer for failure to allege exhaustion of available administrative remedies, the plaintiff must allege facts showing that [s]he did exhaust administrative remedies or facts showing that [s]he was not required to do so.”  (Tejon Real Estate LLC v. City of Los Angeles (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 156.)   Here, Plaintiff filed a complaint with the DFEH on October 31, 2022, which was amended on May 9, 2023 and again on October 26, 2023.  Plaintiff’s last administrative complaint encompasses the allegations in the FAC.  Accordingly, the Court concludes she has exhausted her administrative remedies.   (Achal v. Gate Gourmet Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2015) 114 F. Supp. 3d 781, 796 (“Although Achal’s DFEH complaint was sparsely pleaded, given the legislative directive to liberally construe DFEH complaints, the Court finds that it was sufficient to satisfy section 12960(b).)   David argues that the complaint fails to specify the exact dates of the alleged violations.  But DFEH only asks for the “date of last violation.”  (Exs. D-G to Abrolat Decl.)  Thus, here, Plaintiff properly stated that as of the time of filing the original DFEH complaint, the date of last violation was November 11, 2022.  In any event, Plaintiff has filed an amended FEHA complaint which provides additional dates and date ranges.   David also argues he is not an “employer” under FEHA.  FEHA only applies to employers of “five or more persons.”  (Gov’t Code 12926(d).)  The Complaint does not state that David employed five or more persons.  However, Plaintiff has submitted an affidavit that David employed five or more persons, and accordingly, she has shown she could amend this defect.   Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the first to fifth causes of action with 20 days’ leave to amend. Alter Ego Allegations David argues that any claims that he is the alter ego of XCVI and CFL fail because Veloso has not alleged he had an ownership interest in XCVI and CFL.  David’s arguments are more appropriate for a motion to strike than a demurrer.  They do not dispose of any particular claim, and accordingly, they are not subject to a demurrer.  (Kong, 108 Cal. App. 4th at 1047 (a demurrer cannot be made to part of a claim).) Wrongful Discharge (6th Cause of Action) David argues that Plaintiff’s wrongful discharge claim against them is deficient.  The Court disagrees. The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.  (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234.) Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that (1) David is her employer, (2) he terminated her; (3) the termination was in violation of public policy because it was done in retaliation for her “exercis[ing] her statutory rights by complaining of Defendants’ illegal conduct, including violations of FEHA, the California Constitution, wage and hour requirements and regulations and laws prohibiting fraud;” and (4) she was injured as a result of the termination, including substantial losses in earnings, other employment benefits, and emotional distress damages.  (FAC ¶¶ 125-126.)    Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the sixth cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy. Violation of Whistleblower Statute (Seventh Cause of Action) David argues that Plaintiff has not stated a claim for violation of the whistleblower statute as she is not a whistleblower.  The Court disagrees. Cal. Labor Code § 1102.5 establishes liability for employers who retaliate against their employees for disclosing information to “a person with authority over the employee.”  (Cal. Labor Code § 1102.5 subdv. (a), (b).)  Disclosures to a supervisor provides independent ground for asserting a whistleblower retaliation claim under Cal. Labor Code § 1102.5.  (Killgore v. Specpro Prof’l Servs (9th Cir. 2022) 51 F.4th 973, 984.)  Plaintiff pleads she complained to her supervisor, David, about his sexual harassment and failure to pay her for overtime.  (FAC ¶¶ 57, 62.)  Ultimately, due to her complaints, David wrongfully terminated Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶83.) Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the seventh cause of action. Violation of Wage & Hour Laws (Eighth Cause of Action) David argues that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a claim for violation of wage and hours laws because the claim is too indefinite.  The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that David violated the wage and hour laws by (1) failing to pay overtime wages, (2) prohibiting and/or failing to allow Plaintiff meal and rest breaks, (3) requiring Plaintiff to work off the clock without compensation, (4) failing to pay for all hours worked, (5) failing to pay Plaintiff all wages earned, (6) failing to provide accurate wage statements and pay stubs, (7) failing to pay Plaintiff as a result of these violations and after the initial violation, continuing to not pay Plaintiff, (8) failing to pay minimum wage, (9) failing to pay all vacation wages earned, and (10) failing to pay all wages due upon the retaliatory termination of her employment.  (FAC ¶ 134.)  These allegations are sufficient to put David on notice of the allegations against him.   Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored. (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal. App. 5th 811, 822.)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern¿discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California¿(1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 616.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Id.)  Further, a demurrer for¿uncertainty should be overruled if, as here, the facts are presumptively within defendant’s knowledge.¿(Id.)¿ Accordingly, because Veloso’s wage and hour claim is not so unintelligible that David cannot respond and any alleged ambiguity can be clarified through discovery, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the eighth cause of action. Assault and Battery (Ninth Cause of Action) David argues that the conflation of assault and battery, which are two distinct claims, renders the claim uncertain.  The Court disagrees.   Assault and battery are two distinct claims.  (Brown v. Ransweiller (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 516, 523 n. 6.)  Cal. R. of Court Rule 2.112 states that each cause of action must be separately stated, must be separately numbered and must identify the parties asserting the claim and against whom it is asserted.  However, the Court cannot conclude the failure to comply with Rule 2.112 here renders the claim so unintelligible that David is unable to respond.   David next argues that Veloso cannot plead assault and battery because she previously pleaded that she accepted David’s sexual advances, and any claim now that the touching was non-consensual should be barred by the sham pleading doctrine.  The Court disagrees that the FAC constitutes a sham pleading.  It merely clarifies an ambiguity in the prior complaint as to whether Veloso accepted David’s sexual advances.  The sham pleading doctrine is not implicated in instances where a party simply seeks to¿clarify ambiguities in prior pleadings.¿(See, e.g.,¿Lim v. The TV Corp. Int’l (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 684, 690-691.)    Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the ninth cause of action. Breach of Oral and Implied Contract (Tenth Cause of Action) David argues that the alleged oral promises are unenforceable because (1) they are vague, ambiguous and indefinite promises, (2) they are an unenforceable agreement to agree, (3) they are promises to gift which are not contracts, and (4) the promises are unenforceable under the statute of frauds.  The Court addresses the first and third arguments only as they are dispositive.   Veloso alleges the following promises: (1) that she will not lose her job after Ruth David’s passing so long as she was a good employee, (2) title to the 2019 grey Lincoln car David gave her to drive would be transferred to Plaintiff’s name as her birthday gift when the lease term expired, (3) she could purchase a home for $400,000 from CFL if she did not quit working for David, (4) David would help her financially to purchase a home from CFL if she did not quit working for David, (5) David would help her remodel her home by adding a wing and increasing its square footage if she did not quit working for David, and (6) that David would help her with school costs to become a registered nurse and eventually a doctor if she did not quit working for him.  (FAC ¶ 147.)   Except for the gift of the car, these promises are too uncertain or indefinite to support a contract claim.  “Where a contract is so uncertain and indefinite that the intention of the parties in material particulars cannot be ascertained, the contract is void and unenforceable.”  (California Lettuce Growers v. Union Sugar Co. (1995) 45 Cal.2d 474, 481.)  Here, it is uncertain how the parties are defining “good employee,” what house is the subject of the agreement to purchase or remodel, and how much David was supposed to pay for the home purchase, the remodeling and the school costs.   As to the gift of the car, David argues it is a promise to gift, which is not a contract.  As support, David cites Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1053, which holds that a “bare promise to make a gift in the future, in the absence of consideration, is not legally enforceable.”  Here, however, Plaintiff has alleged consideration in the form of her continued employment.  (FAC ¶ 148.)   David also argues the car was leased, and therefore he could not give Veloso what he did not own.  Additionally, the purchase of a leased car could not have been performed within a year and would depend on David and the car dealership reaching an agreement to purchase the car rendering the purported promise unenforceable and uncertain.  The Court disagrees that merely because the alleged contract would require David to purchase the car from the dealership somehow renders the contract vague and uncertain.  David cites no authority in support of his position.          Because there is at least one enforceable promise, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to Plaintiff’s contract claim.              Intentional Misrepresentation (Eleventh Cause of Action) David argues that Plaintiff has not alleged fraud with particularity.  The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged at least one misrepresentation by David with particularity, relating to the alleged promise to transfer title of the Lincoln car to Plaintiff.  Accordingly, as a demurrer cannot lie to only part of a claim, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the intentional misrepresentation claim.   Unfair Competition (Thirteenth Cause of Action) As to Plaintiff’s claim for unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices, David argues the claim is simply derivative of her other claims, which are subject to demurrer.  The Court disagrees.   “Business and Professions Code section 17200¿[“UCL”] is written in the disjunctive [and] establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” (Podolsky v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 632, 647.)  The three prongs of the law have different thresholds.  Under its “unlawful” prong, “the UCL borrows violations¿of other laws … and makes those unlawful practices actionable under the UCL.” (Lazar v. Hertz Corp. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1505.)  Thus, a violation of another law is a predicate for stating a cause of action under the UCL’s unlawful prong.  Here, Plaintiff has alleged violations of several employment laws.            A business act or practice is “unfair” when the conduct “threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or violates the policy or spirit of one of those laws because its effects are comparable to or the same as a violation of the law, or otherwise significantly threatens or harms competition.” (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co.,¿supra, 20 Cal.4th at 187.)  To establish an unfair business act or practice, a plaintiff must establish the unfair nature of the conduct and that the harm caused by the conduct outweighs any benefits that the conduct may have. (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.)  Here, Plaintiff has not alleged the violation of any antitrust law or any harm to competition.   In turn, a “fraudulent” business act or practice is one in which members of the public are likely to be deceived.¿ (Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618¿(“Fraudulent,” as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only requires a showing members of the public “are likely to be deceived”); Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 211 (in order to state a cause of action based on a fraudulent business act or practice, the plaintiff must allege that consumers are likely to be deceived by the defendant’s conduct).)  Plaintiff has not alleged that any member of the public is likely to be deceived by David’s conduct. In sum, because Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an unlawful act, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to Plaintiff’s UCL claim. Promissory Estoppel and Unjust Enrichment (Twelfth and Fourteenth Causes of Action) David argues Plaintiff added two causes of action for unjust enrichment and promissory estoppel, without seeking leave of Court.  In addition, David argues that there is no claim for unjust enrichment, and Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel fails for the same reasons as her fraud claim.   Given the liberal policy favoring amendments, the Court would have granted Plaintiff leave to add claims, and sustaining a demurrer on this ground would only lead to needless motion practice.   Further, as to the promissory estoppel claim, as David’s only basis for demurring is his argument that it fails for the same reason as the fraud claim, and the Court has rejected the challenge to the fraud claim, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the promissory estoppel claim.    As to the unjust enrichment claim, the Court agrees California does not recognize a cause of action for unjust enrichment.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370 (“[T]here is no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment.”)  Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the unjust enrichment claim.  (Everett v. Mountains Recreation & Conservation Authority¿(2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 541, 553¿(demurrer sustained because “‘there is¿no cause of action in California for¿unjust enrichment’”).) Motion to Strike David moves to strike Plaintiff’s new claims for promissory fraud and unjust enrichment.  This motion is duplicative of David’s arguments on demurrer, and the Court refers to its rulings above.   David also moves to strike purportedly sham allegations in the Complaint.  First, David argues that Plaintiff previously alleged she slept with David in exchange for continued employment but now alleges she declined all such sexual offers from David.  But it is not clear from the complaint that Plaintiff actually alleged she slept with David.  She only alleged that David said her working conditions would improve if she slept with him.  Second, David argues that allegations in the FAC that Plaintiff was terminated for complaining about wage and hour violations and for rejecting David’s sexual advances are a sham because in her related cross complaint against David, Plaintiff pleaded that David terminated her employment because she blocked a number in David’s iPhone.  But it can both be true that David terminated Plaintiff because she spurred his advances and was complaining of wage and hour violations and also because of her blocking a number in David’s iPhone.  There is no contradiction. David next moves to strike purportedly irrelevant allegations relating to his wealth, medical conditions, relationship with defense counsel, rants about Veloso, filing suit against Veloso after she sent him a cease and desist letter, and a report to the police of Veloso’s alleged theft of the Lincoln.  The Court agrees that David’s relationship with defense counsel is irrelevant.  But the Court concludes the other allegations are background facts sufficiently related to Plaintiff’s claims.  For example, the report to the police of Plaintiff’s alleged theft is relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that she was gifted the Lincoln and Defendants reneged on that promise.  Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to strike paragraphs 33, 34, 59, 88, 89 and 90 and GRANTS the motion to strike paragraph 27. David further moves to strike improper legal authorities in the FAC.  A complaint shall contain a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language and a demand for judgment for the relief the plaintiff seeks.  (Code Civ. Proc. 425.10.)  ¿Legal authorities and argument are not facts essential to the claims alleged in the¿complaint.  (Villalva v. Kia Motors Am., 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 92253 at *4 (granting motion to strike legal authorities cited in complaint).)  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 146.         Finally, David moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for specific performance.  Plaintiff seeks specific performance compelling Defendants jointly and severally to perform the following: (1) convey title to the 2019 Lincoln Nautilus, (2) allow Plaintiff to purchase a home for $400,000 from CFL, (3) provide financial help to purchase a home from CFL, (4) provide payment to remodel her home by adding a wing and increasing its square footage and (5) provide payment of school costs to become a Registered Nurse and eventually a doctor.  (FAC, Prayer for Relief #8.)  But specific performance will be granted only when the legal remedy, such as an action for damages is inadequate.  (Palo Alto-Menlo Park Yellow Cab Co. v. Santa Clara County Transit Dist. (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 121, 125.)  Legal remedies are available for all the equitable relief Veloso seeks through specific performance.  Veloso seeks financial help with a home purchase, a home remodel, tuition costs, and a car, all of which can be compensated with money damages.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to strike Prayer for Relief #8.          CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART David’s demurrer with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART David’s motion to strike without leave to amend.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 15, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 