  Case Number:  23AHCV01599    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER QUASHING
IN PART SUBPOENA TO PAUL SULLIVAN & ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR PRODUCTION OF
BUSINESS RECORDSI.        INTRODUCTION
 
Defendant California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (defendant) moves for an
order quashing the deposition subpoena for the production of business records
issued by plaintiff Tristian Hatfield (plaintiff) to nonparty Paul Sullivan and
Associates (deponent). Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. 
          
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 states that if a “subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.” 
 
“[U]pon motion reasonably made by
the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling
compliance with subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Assn.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-83.)  Either the nonparty witness who has
been subpoenaed or any party to the action may challenge the deposition
subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b).) A deposition subpoena may be
quashed for: (1) defects in form or content of the subpoena (e.g., inadequate
description of requested records); (2) defects in service of the subpoena
(e.g., failure to satisfy the requirements of providing notice to consumer);
(3) requesting production of records not within the permissible scope of
discovery; and (4) being unjustly burdensome or oppressive. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).) 
 
IV.     ANALYSIS
 
The issue is whether there are
grounds to quash the subpoena request in part under the mediation privilege.
There are. 
 
The mediation privilege provides
that “[n]o writing, as defined in Section 250, that is prepared for the purpose
of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or mediation consultation, is
admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure of the writing shall not be
compelled in any. . . civil action. . .” (Evid. Code, §1119, subd. (b).)The
mediation privilege is broadly interpreted. Moreover, it is an error to find
that “derivative material that is prepared for the purpose of, in the course
of, or pursuant to, a mediation, is discoverable upon a showing of good cause.”
(Rojas v. Superior Ct. (2004) 33 Cal.4th 407, 424 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)
 
Here, at issue is request number eight
in the underlying deposition subpoena. It seeks “All communication in any form
with Jake Courtney, including letters, emails, and text messages, related to
the case of Hatfield v. Renville.” (Declaration of Kathryn Harvey [Harvey
Decl.], ¶3, Ex. A. at p. 5.) Defendant specifically requests the court partially
quash the subpoena with respect to communication with Jake Courtney and the mediation
in the related case of Hatfield v. Renville. Defendant states that Courtney was
retained to assist with mediation and settlement negotiations in the underlying
motor vehicle case. Given defendant’s assertion that Courtney was retained
solely to assist with the mediation, the breadth of the mediation privilege,
and the lack of opposition demonstrating otherwise, the court finds the requested
communications fall within the scope of the mediation privilege. 
 
V.      CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The motion is granted. The deposition subpoena for the production of
business records issued by plaintiff Tristian Hatfield to nonparty Paul
Sullivan and Associates is quashed in part. Paul Sullivan and Associates need
not respond to request number eight “All communication in any form with
Jake Courtney, including letters, emails, and text messages, related to the
case of Hatfield v. Renville.”
 
 Dated: September 9, 2024                                                   
 
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT