 Case Number:  23GDCV01971    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     9 Date:           5/17/2024   Case No: 23 GDCV01971  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Tarakjian v. Hamadi, et al. DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant Sarkis Minasyan       Responding Party: Plaintiff Rafi Tarakjian     RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to first through fourth causes of action of First Amended Complaint    Strike punitive damages   CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint   1) Fraud  v. Hamadi, Minasyan2) Conspiracy to Defraud  v.  Hamadi, Minasyan3) Intentional Misrepresentation  v.  Hamadi, Minasyan 4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty  v.  Minasyan 5) Breach of Oral Contract  v.  Hamadi, Keshishyan6) Unjust Enrichment  v.  Hamadi, Keshishyan7) Conversion  v. Hamadi, Keshishyan8) Theft -Receipt of Stolen Property v.  Hamadi 9) NIED v.  Hamadi  SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Rafi Tarakjian alleges that defendants Faycal Alex Hamadi, his wife, defendant Dzhamila Keshishyan, and an insurance broker, defendant Sarkis Minasyan, through false promises and misrepresentations induced plaintiff into loaning money in connection with various projects undertaken by Hamadi.   Plaintiff alleges that upon discovering the deception, plaintiff demanded immediate repayment of the loaned funds from Hamadi, and that although Hamadi acknowledged the debt, he has refused to fulfill his obligation to pay plaintiff the money owed. Plaintiff alleges that defendant Keshishyan introduced plaintiff to her niece, who plaintiff married in 2016, and that defendant Hamadi thereafter cultivated a friendship with plaintiff under the guise of family ties.  The First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges that in January of 2017, Hamadi and Keshishyan approached plaintiff seeking assistance in purchasing property in Carpinteria, assuring plaintiff the property had a potential to be profitable.  Hamadi requested that he be added to plaintiff’s bank account, which would allow him to demonstrate sufficient funds in reserve, and plaintiff added Hamadi as a co-signer so that Hamadi could qualify for a loan.  Shortly thereafter, Hamidi and Keshishyan sought an additional $65,000 from plaintiff to increase the down payment, with a promise to repay plaintiff within two months after refinancing the house.  Plaintiff loaned Hamadi and Keshishyan the $65,000, and defendants qualified for the loan and the property was purchased in March of 2017.  Despite defendants’ assurances and promises to repay the $65,000 within two months, defendants failed to repay the borrowed funds.  The complaint alleges that beginning in June 2017 and continuing through October 2021, defendants made continued assurances and promises to plaintiff that they intended to repay the loan in its entirety, and that it was their intention to repay plaintiff in full. The FAC also alleges that in June of 2017, Hamadi informed plaintiff that he purchased life insurance policies totaling over five million dollars, with the intent to sell the policies after the two-year contestable period.  Hamadi requested that plaintiff pay the insurance premiums for these policies for one year, with the agreement that Hamadi would pay the premiums for the second year, and thereafter the polices would be sold, and the profits split.  Hamadi also promised to repay the $65,000 debt obligation to plaintiff from the sale of the insurance policies.  In July and December of 2017, Hamadi purchased life insurance policies for his father and mother, and plaintiff began paying the premiums for the policies. Plaintiff alleges that to induce plaintiff to assume the obligation of the insurance premium payments, Hamadi arranged a meeting between plaintiff, himself, and the servicing insurance agent, defendant Minasyan, and that during this meeting Minasyan and Hamadi together assured plaintiff that it was a common practice to sell insurance policies after two years, that it was easy to find a willing buyer, and that plaintiff would financially benefit from the sale of the policies.  Plaintiff alleges that at the time, defendants Hamadi and Minasyan knew that the policies would not be sold after a two-year period, that it was not easy to find a willing buyer with Hamadi being the beneficiary of the policies but conspired to induce plaintiff to pay the premiums to prevent the policies from lapsing. Plaintiff also alleges that life insurance agents such as Minasyan receive as a commission the percentage of the premiums paid in the first year, so that by making representations and inducing plaintiff to pay for the premiums, Minasyan placed his interests over those of plaintiff in order to earn his commission. At the conclusion of the first year, Hamadi refused to pay the premiums for the policies, leaving plaintiff no choice but to continue making the premium payments to avoid a lapse in coverage.  Hamadi also threatened to not repay plaintiff’s loan and the payments plaintiff had made for the policies if plaintiff chose to discontinue paying the insurance premiums.     The FAC alleges that while plaintiff continued to make the premium payments, Hamadi refused to sell the policies or repay plaintiff, and that in September of 2021, plaintiff contacted Minasyan and demanded that Hamadi assume the payment obligations.  Hamadi requested an exit plan from Minasyan, and Minasyan agreed to assume Hamadi’s and plaintiff’s rights in the policies, and 30 days after the rights were assigned, repay plaintiff, including 10% interest.  Hamadi refused to sign the agreement and refused to acknowledge his obligation for the insurance premium payments made by plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of defendants’ conduct, plaintiff has suffered economic damages in an amount in excess of $274,697.24, plus interest, and that plaintiff has experienced severe emotional distress.  ANALYSIS:DemurrerFirst Cause of Action—Fraud, Second Cause of Action—Conspiracy to Defraud, Third Cause of Action—Intentional Misrepresentation and Fourth Cause of Action—Breach of Fiduciary DutyStatute of Limitations Defendant Sarkis Minasyan argues that all four causes of action asserted against this defendant are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations.  Defendant argues that the fraud and conspiracy to defraud causes of action are barred by the three-year statute of limitations set forth in CCP section 338 (d), and that the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is subject to a two-year statute of limitations.  Defendant relies on Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc.  (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, in which the Second District, in connection with a claim against an insurance broker for breach of fiduciary, applied a two-year statute of limitations, finding the breach of fiduciary duty claim, regardless of its label, amounted “to a claim of professional negligence.”  Hydro-Mill, at 1159.  In general, the statute of limitations is mandatory, based on the language of CCP section 312, which provides:“Civil actions, without exception, can only be commenced within the periods prescribed by this title...unless, where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute.”A demurrer on the ground a cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations should be sustained only where the facts alleged on the face of the complaint “clearly and affirmatively” show that the cause of action is barred.   It is not enough that the complaint might be barred.   Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.  As to the fraud causes of action, CCP § 338(d) provides that “an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake” must be commenced within three years.  CCP § 338(d) provides that in an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake, “The cause of action in that case is not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.”  Defendant argues that the causes of action against defendant are based on purported representations that it was common practice to sell insurance policies after two years, that it was easy to find a willing buyer, and that plaintiff would benefit financially from the sale of the policies.  [FAC, paras. 23, 44, 49, 65, 75].  Defendant argues that these purported misrepresentations were made in a meeting, and that although the exact date of the meeting is not alleged, the meeting must have occurred before plaintiff agreed to undertake payment of the insurance premiums.  [FAC, para. 23].  The FAC alleges that plaintiff started making premium payments, “beginning in 2017.”  [FAC, para. 22].  Defendant argues it is reasonable to infer that the representations occurred sometime in 2017, accrued at that time, so that the complaint would be required to be filed by 2019 or 2020.  This action was filed on September 15, 2023, which defendant argues is years late. Defendant also argues that alternatively, assuming that plaintiff will argue plaintiff did not discover that the statements were false until later, the purported falseness of the statements should have become apparent to plaintiff no later than 2019, two years after the representations were made, because Hamadi had allegedly promised plaintiff that the policies would be sold within two years.  It is not clear from the face of the pleading that the alleged misrepresentations by this defendant were or should have been discovered at some earlier time, as the fact that the policies were not in fact sold within two years does not suggest that the representations concerning the ease of doing so from a life insurance broker were false and could not continue to be relied upon. The FAC affirmatively alleges that defendants made continuous reassurances that plaintiff would be repaid, and specifically that Minasyan continued to be involved with the transaction, and ultimately proposed an exit plan, agreeing to assume the parties’ rights and interests in the life insurance policy, which agreement was alleged to have occurred in October of 2021. [FAC, paras. 18, 29, 31-33]    Plaintiff in opposition argues that, as alleged in the FAC, it was not until October of 2021 when neither Hamadi nor Minasyan signed the agreement, which Minasyan had proposed, that plaintiff discovered the fraud perpetuated by defendants.   [FAC, para. 33].  It is clear that it would reasonably be at some time after that date when plaintiff would be expected to have undertaken some investigation into the correctness of the representations made by Minasyan to induce plaintiff to enter into the transaction in the first place, and to cause plaintiff to continue to pay the premiums based on the information about the ease of sale.     Overall, it is not clear from the allegations that the causes of action clearly and affirmatively are time barred.  Hence, the demurrer to these causes of action is overruled on this ground. First Cause of Action—Fraud and Third Cause of Action—Intentional Misrepresentation  To state a cause of action for fraud, plaintiff must plead the following elements: A false representation, actual or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction which defendant had a duty to disclose, or defendant’s promise made without intention to perform; defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; defendant’s intent to deceive; plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and resulting damage to plaintiff.  Pearson v. Norton (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 1; Witkin §668 et seq.; Judicial Council Form 982.1 (23).Generally, in a fraud cause of action, a plaintiff must allege specifically how, what, where, to whom and by what means a defendant made a misrepresentation.  Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. Defendant argues that the causes of action are not alleged with sufficient specificity.  Plaintiff in the opposition points out that the pleading alleges the representations made by Minasyan which assured plaintiff it was easy to find a willing buyer after two years, further assuring plaintiff he would benefit from the sale of the policy.  The FAC also alleges the how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered, including their falsity.   Specifically, although the date of the alleged meeting is not specified, as discussed above, defendant has conceded that the FAC is sufficiently clear that the date of the meeting must have occurred shortly before plaintiff agreed to undertake payment of the insurance premiums.  [FAC, para. 23].  The FAC alleges that the first of the two insurance policies was purchased in June of 2017.  [FAC, paras. 19, 22].  The FAC alleges that the purported representations were made by defendants Minasyan and Hamadi “together.”  [FAC, para. 23].  More importantly, the causes of action allege that the parties are jointly responsible for the representations made by each of the defendants Minasyan and Hamadi, and there is no challenge here to the sufficiency of the allegations of the fraudulent representations made by Hamadi.   The demurrer on this ground is overruled. Defendant also argues that plaintiff has failed to allege reasonable reliance on defendant’s purported misrepresentations, or the elements of causation or damages, arguing that plaintiff knew that the policies were controlled by defendant Hamadi, was not obligated to continue paying for the premiums beyond one year but continued to do so voluntarily.  Hence, any alleged damages were caused by Hamadi’s refusal to sell the policies, not any purported misrepresentations.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff has not yet incurred any damages, as he alleges that he continues to be a joint co-account holder of the policies, which can still eventually be sold.  [FAC, para. 29].  The FAC alleges that plaintiff would not have agreed to pay the first year premiums or continue to pay premiums if not for the representations by the professional life insurance broker, and it is clear that plaintiff is alleging that he therefore suffered damages from the payment of those initial first-year premiums.  [FAC, paras. 23-27, 35, 44-46, 49-51, 63, 65-67, 69-71].  The demurrer on this ground also is overruled.          Second Cause of Action—Conspiracy to Defraud To state a civil conspiracy a pleading must allege a civil wrong (for example, fraud or battery), the formation and operation of the conspiracy, a wrongful act done pursuant to the conspiracy, and resulting damage.  Unruh v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1972) 7 Cal.3d 616, 631, (noted to have been superseded by statute on other grounds in Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723.)     The cause of action is one pursuant to which moving defendant Minasyan is alleged to be responsible for the alleged fraud committed by co-defendant Hamadi.  [FAC, para. 54-57].  As discussed above, there is no challenge to the sufficiency of the fraud allegations as to Hamadi.   The FAC alleges that “Hamadi and his insurance agent, Minasyan, conspired, planned and intentionally agreed among themselves to defraud Plaintiff.”  [FAC, para. 55].   Courts have generally held as sufficient allegations that defendants “conspired together” or “did agree together” as sufficient allegations of the formation and operation of a conspiracy.   See Farr v. Bramblett (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 36, 47; Greenwood v. Mooradian (1955) 137 Cal.App.2d 532, 535.  These allegations are made here.  The demurrer also argues that defendant Hamadi has refused to sell the policies, negating any assertion that defendant’s misrepresentations regarding the salability of the policies was false.  There may be concurrent causation here.  However, the FAC in any case alleges that the representations by the moving defendant were in fact false, which allegations must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer. [See FAC, paras. 24, 45; See Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591; Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981, 2nd Dist.) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (“As a general rule in testing a pleading against a demurrer the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be.”)]. The demurrer also again argues that causation and damages are defeated by the fact that plaintiff continues to be a co-owner and beneficiary of the policies which may eventually be sold, so that he may be entitled to a portion of the proceeds upon sale as an offset.  As discussed above, this assertion does not negate allegations that plaintiff has been damaged by having been induced to pay premiums he would not have otherwise paid, and the loss of use of money he would not have lost use of in the meantime.  This argument appears more in the nature of an affirmative defense, not a viable challenge on demurrer.   The demurrer to this cause of action accordingly is overruled.  Fourth Cause of Action—Breach of Fiduciary Duty To allege a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege the existence of a fiduciary or confidential relationship, the breach of a duty arising under this relationship and resulting damages.   Richelle L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of San Francisco (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 257, 272.Defendant argues that plaintiff has failed to allege a fiduciary duty owed by defendant to the plaintiff, as it is alleged that defendant Minasyan was defendant Hamadi’s (and his parents’) agent with respect to the policies.  [FAC, paras. 23, 54, 74].   Minasyan argues that there is no allegation that defendant Minasyan was plaintiff’s agent. Defendant again relies on Hydro-Mill, in which the Second District set forth the following authority concerning the existence of a fiduciary relationship:““ ‘A fiduciary relationship has been defined as “any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is ... duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or consent.” ...’ ” (In re Marriage of Varner (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 128, 141, 63 Cal.Rptr.2d 894.)”Hydro-Mill, at 1156-1157. Here, the FAC alleges:“As a licensed insurance agent, Minasyan owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff and the public, including duties of loyalty and reasonable care, to disclose all risks associated with the sale of life-insurance policies prior to the contested period, and the risks of finding a willing buyer. In his fiduciary capacity, Minasyan owed a duty to place Plaintiff’s and the public’s interests ahead of his own, and to refrain from acts of self-dealing.”[FAC, para. 78].   Defendant argues that in Hydro-Mill, the Second District did not find that insurance brokers owe a fiduciary duty to the general public, and, in fact, questioned whether insurance brokers even owe a fiduciary duty to their own clients:“For one thing, it is unclear whether a fiduciary relationship exists between an insurance broker and an insured.”Hydro-Mill, at 1156.  The FAC is unclear with respect to how a fiduciary duty arose on the part of defendant Minasyan with respect to plaintiff, a non-client at the time of the alleged breach of duty through misrepresentation.   It is not clear if the FAC intends to allege that plaintiff became a client or entered a special relationship when the exit plan was proposed by defendant Minasyan, as it is not alleged that any conduct after the undertaking of the formulation of the exit plan was a breach of a fiduciary duty.  The alleged breach appears to have been the earlier misrepresentations, and an alleged conflict of interest created by the fact that the broker’s commission is calculated based on the payment of the first year of premiums, undertaken by plaintiff based on the alleged misrepresentations.   [FAC, paras. 75, 76, 79].  Plaintiff in opposition does not attempt to distinguish Hydro-Mill and does not cite any legal authority under which fiduciary duties are owed by an insurance broker to a non-client or to the general public in this situation.   The demurrer to this cause of action accordingly is sustained. This pleading is the first challenge to the pleading made by this demurring defendant.  The demurrer accordingly will be sustained with one opportunity to amend, if possible.  On any further assertion of or challenge to this cause of action, the court will expect a thorough meet and confer and legal briefing on this issue concerning the existence of a fiduciary duty in these circumstances.    Motion to Strike Defendant seeks to strike plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages. Civil Code § 3294 authorizes recovery of punitive damages on the basis of findings that “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.” In this case, with respect to the fraud causes of action, punitive damages are appropriately stated.  A properly pleaded fraud claim will itself support recovery of punitive damages; no allegations of malice or intent to injure are required.   Stevens v. Superior Court (1986, 2nd Dist.) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 610-611.   The motion to strike accordingly is denied.   RULING:Demurrer of Defendant Sarkis Minasyan to First Amended Complaint:Demurrer is OVERRULED to the first cause of action for fraud, second cause of action for conspiracy to defraud, and third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.   Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the ground plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege the existence of a fiduciary duty owed by moving defendant to plaintiff.   The Court will expect that if there is any assertion of or challenge to the sufficiency of such a cause of action, the parties will engage in thorough good faith meet and confer and, if necessary, provide thorough legal briefing on the issue concerning the existence of a fiduciary duty in these circumstances.    Ten days leave to amend. Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint is DENIED. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP § 430.41 before any further demurrer may be filed.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 