  Case Number:  20GDCV00763    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  3 Date: 5/17/2024 Case No:  20 GDCV00763 Trial Date:  October 28, 2024Case Name: New Look Skin Center, Inc., et al. v. Yerushalmi, et al. MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS (2) Moving Party: Defendants David Yerushalmi and Yerushalmi Law Firm APC (Markarian Depo.) Plaintiff Albert Markarian (Yerushalmi Depo.)Responding Party:  Plaintiff Albert Markarian (Markarian Depo.)  Defendant David Yerushalmi (Yerushalmi Depo.) (No Opposition)   Name of Deponent:  Albert Markarian     David Yerushalmi  Status of Deponent: Plaintiff (party) Defendant (party)DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:Formal Notice [Notice, Exhibit C] Formal Notice [Notice, Exhibit B] RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:Markarian Order compelling the production of plaintiff Albert Markarian for deposition and the production by Markarian of all documents demanded at his prior deposition, without objections.    Yerushalmi Order compelling deposition of defendant David Yerushalmi and production of documents as requested in the notice of deposition.DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION: Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:   YesFACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff New Look Skin Center, Inc (New Look spa) and its manager, plaintiff Albert Markarian, allege that New Look spa provides spa-quality skin treatments, including laser hair removal, tattoo removal, acne and acne scar treatment, wrinkle reduction, cellulite treatment, chemical peels, and other treatments.  Plaintiffs allege that in August of 2020, defendants David Yerushalmi and Yerushalmi Law Firm, APC contacted New Look spa by phone to inform it defendants were representing a patient of New Look spa and demanded that New Look spa provide its commercial liability policy information.   Plaintiffs repeatedly and unequivocally advised defendants that New Look spa was represented by counsel.  Defendants later used a false name, “Alan,” to contact New Look spa by telephone to obtain access to management to obtain information including New Look spa’s confidential liability insurance information, and persisted in these efforts, ultimately contacting New Look spa’s counsel to obtain the insurance information. The complaint alleges that thereafter defendants continued their surreptitious efforts to obtain the insurance information by falsely impersonating New Look spa in a call with the insurance company directly, during which defendant Yerushalmi false identified himself as Albert Markarian from New Look Skin Center, indicated that the company’s phone and internet systems were down, and asked the insurance company to immediately fax a copy of the most recent insurance declaration page and other information for a meeting with New Look spa’s accountant the next day.  Plaintiffs allege that the information and documents defendants requested while falsely pretending to be plaintiffs, were not available to the public and contained confidential and business documents of plaintiffs, and that defendants were successful in obtaining New Look spa’s confidential information, as a result of which plaintiffs have been damaged.The motion to compel the deposition of plaintiff Albert Markarian was originally heard on April 12, 2024.  The court issued its tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to deem the motion moot, as since the hearing on the motion plaintiff represented in the opposition plaintiff had appeared for deposition and produced documents.  The court’s tentative was also to award monetary sanctions in favor of defendants and against plaintiff for the non-appearance at the deposition in the sum of $4,574.00. At the hearing, the matter was continued to this date, and a briefing schedule was set for supplemental briefing.  Defendants were ordered to submit a proposed order, which was filed and signed as the court’s order on April 30, 2024.  The order states, in pertinent part:“In advance of the continued hearing date the Court expects counsel to meet and confer over any additional documents demanded and to resolve any remaining issues presented by the motion and the Court orders the deponent to be made available for a further deposition of up to eight hours, with the production of all documents responsive to the deposition notice to be produced two days before the deposition. The Court will address the issue of sanctions on Defendants’ motion in connection with the continued hearing on May 17, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.”Supplemental briefs have been filed and considered by the court.  ANALYSIS:Markarian As noted above, this matter has been continued only on the issue of monetary sanctions, which the court had previously been prepared to award to moving parties in the sum of $4,574.00 against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel.  The previous tentative had been to deny sanctions sought by plaintiff in the opposition.  The supplemental opposition repeats the arguments made in the moving papers and is based on an assumption that the motion to compel the deposition was unsuccessfully made because it had been rendered moot, which is not correct, as the court understands now that the motion was not entirely moot, and even had it been moot, it was not unsuccessfully brought.  Plaintiff also argues again that the motion was brought despite the fact that the parties were in the process of meeting and conferring when it was brought, as previously argued.  It appears that plaintiff was at all times standing by his position that the deposition could not take place until a date month in the future, and the parties had reached an impasse on that issue.   Monetary sanctions requested by plaintiff in the opposition are denied.  With respect to the monetary sanctions sought by defendants, defendants in the moving papers seek a total of $15,939.  The $4,547.00 which the court was prepared to award represented the reasonable costs which had been incurred by defendants in connection with the non-appearance by plaintiff at a deposition in December, which plaintiff’s counsel has conceded was not properly calendared by counsel.  The sanctions sought for the non-appearance include a videographer fee of $525, a court reporter fee of $1,074, and 5 hours to travel to and attend the deposition at $595 per hour ($2,975), for the $4,574 total which the court awards. Plaintiff in the opposition indicates that plaintiff has already tendered the amount of $2,194 to cover Defendant’s costs arising from the mis-calendared December 21, 2023 deposition date, arguing that this amount covers defendant’s costs for the court reporter and videographer, plus one hour of Mr. Vivoli’s time at his stated billable rate. This does not include the four hours of travel time sought, and plaintiff argues that counsel always had the more cost-effective option of conducting the deposition via remote video conferencing but elected to travel from San Diego for no legitimate reason.  The court finds that the travel time to the deposition was not unreasonable under the circumstances, and that in a proceeding as significant as the deposition of the plaintiff in this case, counsel reasonably chose to personally appear to assess the witness.  The court awards the full sum sought of $4,574.  If payment has been made of some portion of the award, that sum may be offset against the total when payment is being made. The court had previously been reluctant to award the sanctions sought for the preparation of the motion to compel, based on representations in the opposition that defendants had filed the motion while plaintiff’s counsel was under the impression that the parties would continue their efforts to resolve the scheduling issue informally, and on representations that the motion was in fact moot because the deposition had been conducted, completed, and all documents had been produced.  As noted above, after the previous hearing, the court entered an order ordering the deponent to be made available for a further deposition and to produce all documents responsive to the deposition notice, so that the motion to compel has now been granted on its merits.  That order remains the order of the court.  The order was made pursuant to CCP § 2025.450 (a), which provides, in pertinent part:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action…, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”The moving papers sufficiently establish here that plaintiff, a party to the action, was served with a deposition notice, did not serve an objection, and failed to appear for his examination which had been noticed on a date offered by plaintiff’s counsel as available. [Vivoli Decl. ¶¶ 3, 7-13, Exs. B, C, D].  Defendants’ counsel contacted plaintiff’s counsel, who claimed that they knew nothing of the scheduled deposition that day, but then later acknowledged responsibility for having failed to attend the deposition.  [Vivoli Decl. ¶¶ 11-13, Ex. D].  The supplemental opposition also indicates that sanctions have in fact already been paid to acknowledge this situation.Defendants are accordingly entitled to an order compelling plaintiff’s attendance and testimony, which order has now been entered. The moving papers also sufficiently establish good cause for the production of the documents sought.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (b), with respect to document production, subdivision (1) requires, “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”Defendants in the moving papers argue that there is good cause to compel plaintiff to produce the requested documents, as the documents are all directly relevant or at least reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, as defendant Yerushalmi has steadfastly denied making the calls attributed to him.  [Vivoli Decl. ¶ 17].  Defendants also indicate that the defendants have sought to obtain documents in connection with phone records by subpoena from the third parties insurer and insurance broker that claimed Yerushalmi called them.  [Vivoli Decl. ¶ 18].  Plaintiffs filed a motion to quash those subpoenas, which the court granted, in part, on grounds defendants should first seek such documents from plaintiffs directly.  [Vivoli Decl. ¶ 18].  The file shows that on November 18, 2022, the court heard motion to quash deposition subpoenas for business records served on Nationwide Insurance Company and Town & Country Financial Insurance Group.  The motion was denied in part and granted in part, on the ground that plaintiffs had established an objectively reasonably expectation of privacy in their insurance information, and that defendants had failed to establish a countervailing interest, “that is, that the subject information, as sought, is discoverable in the context of this lawsuit, or has been sought through less intrusive means.”  [Minute Order 11/18/2023, p. 16].  The court in its minute order had also observed that it had not been established with respect to some documents that the information sought, including information concerning the relationship between plaintiff Markarian and plaintiff New Look spa, “could not be obtained through less intrusive means, such as by first directing discovery concerning such an issue to plaintiffs.”  [Minute Order 11/18/2023, p. 13]. It appears from a review of the most recent deposition notice, attached as Exhibit C to the Vivoli Declaration, that the documents requested are those which relate to the relationship between the plaintiffs, records of phone calls from September 1, 2020 through September 5, 2020, communications between the parties and with the insurer and insurance broker, documents supporting the  contentions and allegations of plaintiff’s complaint, and documents evidencing any claimed damages. [Vivoli Decl., Ex. C].  The requests appear to seek discoverable information, including information this court has essentially suggested being sought directly from plaintiff. As noted above, plaintiff has failed to serve written objections to the deposition notice or any aspect of it, so has failed to raise or establish any valid objection to production of responsive documents at the deposition. The court accordingly finds good cause to grant the order compelling production of responsive documents as well.  The court has entered such an order, which will remain the order of the court.    The supplemental brief argues that due to these orders entered under subdivision (a), monetary sanctions for the preparation of the motion to compel are mandatory.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (g)(1):“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”CCP § 2023.010 (d) provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”   CCP § 2023.030(a) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against a party and its attorney for misuse of the discovery process.  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  The supplemental brief indicates that contrary to representations at the hearing, the deposition of plaintiff had not been completed as of the time of the hearing, and all documents had not been produced at that deposition, and presents a deposition transcript confirming that the deposition concluded, with defendants’ counsel stating, “Subject to the documents that I need to meet and confer with counsel about, I think I am done at this point.”  [Supp. Vivoli Decl. Ex. Q, Depo. transcript, pp. 40, 77].The argument is that the motion was not moot at the time of the hearing, and the orders concerning the deposition and documents were proper and necessary.   It appears that since the hearing, a second deposition has been conducted, and that it has now been discovered that Markarian is unable to produce his cellular records, as they are too far back and can no longer be accessed, although they were requested last July.  Defendants will have to subpoena the cellular phone provider to produce those records.  With respect to the issue regarding the sum of monetary sanctions to be awarded, which is the only issue remaining to be heard on this motion, the court will award the nonappearance sanctions it had previously tentatively awarded, as well as a reasonable sum for the preparation of the motion which was necessitated by plaintiff’s conduct with respect to delaying in setting the deposition, and only offering dates far into the future, until this motion was filed.  Plaintiff has not established that awarding sanctions would be unjust or that the conduct necessitating the motion was substantially justified under the circumstances. The sanctions sought in the moving papers are $15,939.  As set forth above, the sanctions sought for the non-appearance include a videographer fee of $525, a court reporter fee of $1,074, and 5 hours to travel to and attend the deposition at $595 per hour ($2,975), for the $4,574 total which the court will award. With respect to the remaining sanctions sought, the moving papers seek 9 hours preparing the motion, 5 hours reviewing opposition and preparing reply and 1 hour attending the hearing (15 hours) at $595/hour, for a total of $8,925, plus $60 in filing fees.  (The total sanctions sought are $15,939, but the sum supported by the declaration totals $13,559.  The discrepancy is evidently based on a potential additional 4 hours to be charged if the hearing was attended personally.  The minute order reflects attendance was by LA CourtConnect, not a personal appearance.)  These fees appear very high for a motion of this nature, which requires a straightforward showing that deposition notice was served, was not complied with, and that there is good cause for ordering production of the requested documents.  The hours spent are adjusted to a reasonable number of hours for this type of motion as follows: 4.0 hours preparing the motion; 2.0 hours preparing the reply; 1.0 hour attorney time to attend the hearing for total attorney time for a total of $4,165.00.Defendants in the supplemental brief seek additional sanctions in the sum of $7,619.   The declaration seeks fees for the fees for attending the February 2024 deposition and the April 26, 2024 deposition, for what appears to be a total of $595 plus $2,975 claimed ($3,570).  [Supp. Vivoli Decl. ¶ 9].  The supplemental brief also seeks 5 hours for drafting the supplemental brief at $595 per hour ($2,975) and 5 hours of time, with travel, to and from the court to personally attend the hearing, for an additional $2,975.   This totals $9,520, but the declaration total of $7,619 is evidently based on the assumption the court will only permit one hour of time for appearance at the hearing, which would be $2,975 plus $595 for a subtotal of $3,570.   No sanctions will be awarded for the expense of attending depositions, as it would appear that at least some useful information was obtained at those depositions, particularly given the transcript reflecting that there was an intent to convene additional depositions.   With respect to the fees sought to prepare the supplemental papers, the court will award reasonable additional fees.  Again, the fees sought appear high for a supplemental pleading of this nature.  The hours will be adjusted to reflect a reasonable number of hours to prepare the supplemental papers, which, given the entry of the order for the deponent to appear and produce documents, were meant to address the fairly narrow issues of monetary sanctions.  The court is also concerned that travel time from San Diego to attend the hearing personally does not appear to be a charge reasonably shifted to plaintiff in this circumstance, which is apparently recognized by the moving party.  The supplemental opposition does not challenge any of the fees sought in the supplemental brief, or their amounts.  However, the court also has other concerns with respect to the reasonableness of the additional fees sought.  The fees for filing the supplemental pleading be awarded but are adjusted accordingly as follows: 3.0 hours attorney time drafting the supplemental brief at $595.00 per hour and one hour attorney time to attend the hearing virtually for total of 4.0 hours attorney time at $595.00 per hour for a total of $2,380.00 in attorneys’ fees.  YerushalmiPlaintiffs New Look Skin Center, Inc. and Albert Markarian have filed an unopposed motion to compel the deposition of defendant David Yerushalmi.  CCP § 2025.450 (a) provides, in pertinent part:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action…, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” The moving papers establish that defendant Yerushalmi, a party to the action, was served with a Notice of Taking Deposition on February 23, 2024, for a deposition to be conducted on March 11, 2024.    [Kerendian Decl., para. 3, Ex. B].   Defendant served objections, evidently directed to the setting of the deposition on a date defendant was unavailable, and in response to an email inquiring if defendant would appear on the scheduled date, defendants’ counsel informed plaintiff defendant would not be attending.  [Kerendian Decl., para. 5]. Defendant failed to appear for his deposition on the scheduled date and has failed to offer any alternative dates for the taking of his deposition.  [Kerendian Decl., paras. 4-7, Ex. C].  Plaintiff is accordingly entitled to an order compelling defendant’s attendance and testimony.  The motion also seeks that the court order defendant to provide document production along with the deposition testimony.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (b):“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” The motion provides a sufficient meet and confer declaration describing the contact with the deponent’s counsel, and efforts to obtain a deposition date.  [Kerendian Decl., para. 6, 7, Ex. C].   However, neither the motion, nor the declaration in support of the motion, make any attempt to set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of anything described in the deposition notice.  The motion is instead focused on the inability to obtain a date for the deposition.  The motion, to the extent it requests the production of documents, could be denied on the ground good cause has not been shown, but the court elects not to do so.  However, there is no opposition to the motion, so no objection on this ground, and it appears from a review of the deposition notice, attached as Exhibit B the Kerendian Declaration, the documents requested are those which relate to the contentions and allegations of plaintiffs’ complaint, and the denials and affirmative defenses in defendant’s answer, including documents identified in written discovery, telephone records, and records concerning the insurance policy and insurance claims at issue, so the documents are discoverable and are directly related to the matters in this action.  The court under the circumstances finds good cause to grant the order compelling production of responsive documents as well.  Sanctions Plaintiffs request monetary sanctions for the expense of having to bring this motion.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (g)(1):“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”CCP § 2023.010 (d) provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”   CCP § 2023.030(a) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against a party and its attorney for misuse of the discovery process.  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.   Here, the court orders the deposition to proceed under CCP § 2025.450 subdivision (a), and the court “shall” impose the requested monetary sanction.  There is no opposition, so defendant has failed to meet defendant’s burden to show substantial justification or injustice.   There appears to have been no substantial justification for defendant’s failure, despite repeated requests to provide a date for a deposition to be conducted, which necessitated the filing of this motion.  Sanctions are awarded. The sanctions sought are $3,810.00.  The sanctions include 1 hour at $750 per hour preparing a reply, when there is no opposition so the time required should be minimal.  The sanctions also appear a bit high for a motion of this nature, particularly since moving parties failed to attempt to establish good cause for the production of documents.  Some reduced portion of the sanctions are awarded as follows: 5.0 total hours at $750.00 per hour attorney time is sought and is reduced to 3.0 total hours at $750.00 per hour for total attorneys’ fees of $2,250.00.RULING:Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Albert Markarian and Production of Documents Demanded at Deposition is GRANTED, pursuant to CCP § 2025.450(a) and (b), and as reflected in this Court’s order of April 30, 2024, in which the court ordered the deponent to be made available for further deposition, with the production of all documents responsive to the deposition notice to be produced two days before the deposition.  That order remains the order of the Court. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  With respect to the sanctions requested for the expense of the non-appearance, utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred in connection with the non-appearance is $2,975.00 (5 hours @ $595/) [5 hours requested] for travel to and attendance at deposition plus costs of $525 videographer cost and $1,074 court reporter cost. [Amount Requested $15,939; amount supported for non-appearance only $4,574], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendants David Yerushalmi and Yerushalmi Law Firm APC, and against plaintiff Albert Markarian, and plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.450(g), 2023.010(d) and 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).  (This sum may be offset by the $2,194 which the supplemental opposition indicates has already been paid—Balance due $2,380).   With respect to monetary sanctions requested by the moving parties in connection with preparation of the motion and the supplemental brief, utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $4,165.00 (7.0 hours @ $595/hour) [15-19 hours requested] plus costs of $60 filing fee [Amount Requested $15,939 total; amount supported including nonappearance expenses and one hour of hearing time $13,559], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendants David Yerushalmi and Yerushalmi Law Firm APC, and against plaintiff Albert Markarian, and plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.450(g), 2023.010(d) and 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).   Monetary sanctions sought in the opposition are DENIED. UNOPPOSED Motion of Plaintiffs to Compel Deposition of Defendant David Yerushalmi is GRANTED. Defendant David Yerushalmi is ordered to appear for deposition and to give testimony on or before June 21, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. at defendant counsel’s law offices. Good cause appearing, defendant is also ordered to produce for inspection at the deposition all materials described in the deposition notice served on February 23, 2024. Monetary sanctions requested by moving parties are GRANTED.  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,250.00 (3.0 hours @ $750/hour) [5 hours requested] plus costs of $60 filing fee [Amount Requested $3,810 requested] which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiffs New Look Skin Center, Inc. and Albert Markarian, and against defendant David Yerushalmi and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.450(g), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 