 Case Number:  24NNCP00059    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     12 Date:               5/17/2024Case No: 24 NNCP00059Case Name: Apollo Mathers, LLC v. Certain Statutory Interested Parties as Defined by Cal. Ins. Code 10134(G)PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS Moving Party:                Petitioner Apollo Mathers, LLC    Responding Party:    No OppositionRELIEF REQUESTED:  Approve transfer of structured settlement payment rights by and between Ernesto Bermudez, as payee, and petitioner Apollo Mathers, LLC, as transferee.   ANALYSIS: This matter was originally heard on May 3, 2024.  There had been several procedural problems with the motion, and at the hearing, on the court’s own motion, the matter was continued to May 17, 2024. ProceduralCopies of Documents Under Insurance Code § 10139.5:“ (f)  (1) A petition under this article for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights shall be made by the transferee and brought in the county in which the payee resides at the time the transfer agreement is signed by the payee, or, if the payee is not domiciled in California, in the county in which the payee resides or in the county where the structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is domiciled. (2) Not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights under this article, the transferee shall file with the court and serve on all interested parties a notice of the proposed transfer and the petition for its authorization, and shall include the following with that notice:    (A) A copy of the transferee's current petition and any other prior petition, whether approved or withdrawn, that was filed with the court in accordance with paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).    (B) A copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a).    (C) A listing of each of the payee's dependents, together with each dependent's age.    (D) A copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of Section 10136.   (E) A copy of the annuity contract, if available.    (F) A copy of any qualified assignment agreement, if available.    (G) A copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement, if available.    (H) If a copy of a document described in subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) is unavailable or cannot be located, then the transferee is not required to attach a copy of that document to the petition or notice of the proposed transfer if the transferee satisfies the court that reasonable efforts to locate and secure a copy of the document have been made, including making inquiry with the payee. If the documents are available, but contain a confidentiality or nondisclosure provision, then the transferee shall summarize in the petition the payments due and owing to the payee, and, if requested by the court, shall provide copies of the documents to the court at a scheduled hearing.”The file does not include a copy of the qualified assignment agreement.  Petitioner has now submitted an Amended Declaration of Lucia Sanchez, a customer service representative for petitioner Apollo Mathers, LLC, which attaches a copy of a benefits letter as Exhibit A, and a declaration in lieu of settlement is attached as Exhibit B.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 1].   The Declaration in Lieu of Settlement Agreement of Ernesto Bermudez indicates that the assigned payments are due to him as a result of the settlement of a personal injury claim, as when he was 14 years old, he was in an accident while in the school playground, and a lawsuit was filed on his behalf by his mother against the Los Angeles Unified School District.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., Ex. B, Decl. in Lieu, para. 3].Bermudez indicates that he diligently has searched for the underlying settlement agreement, contacted the annuity issuer and structured settlement obligor, and searched his own records, but does not have a copy of the Settlement Agreement.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., Ex. B., Decl. in Lieu, para. 3].  With respect to the qualified assignment agreement, the Amended Sanchez Declaration similarly represents that petitioner has personally contacted the payee, the annuity issuer, has requested court records, and after diligent efforts does not believe that there are other reasonable means of obtaining the requested documents.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 1].  Petitioner and requests that this due diligence by considered by the court and that the court waive submission of the missing underlying documents.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 1].  The court finds that reasonable efforts have been made to locate and secure copies of the missing documents.    In addition, the petition fails to include copies of the records of four previous transfer attempts.       Under Insurance Code § 10139.5“(c) Every petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights, except as inquiry with the payee, all of the following:  “(6) Information regarding previous transfers or attempted transfers, as described in paragraph (11), (12), or (13) of subdivision (b). The transferee or payee may choose to provide this information by providing copies of pleadings, transaction documents, or orders involving any previous attempted or completed transfer or by providing the court a summary of available information regarding any previous transfer or attempted transfer, such as the date of the transfer or attempted transfer, the payments transferred or attempted to be transferred by the payee in the earlier transaction, the amount of money received by the payee in connection with the previous transaction, and generally the payee's reasons for pursuing or completing a previous transaction. The transferee's inability to provide the information required by this paragraph shall not preclude the court from approving the proposed transfer, if the court determines that the information is not available to the transferee after the transferee has made a reasonable effort to secure the information, including making an inquiry with the payee.”The Amended Sanchez Declaration provides a summary of the previous transactions, without documentation.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 7].  The declaration describes the prior transfers, from 2019 through 2023, two of which were dismissed, and two of which were approved, with the funds for those transfers being used for housing expenses, and toward costs related to incarceration including criminal defense, fines and court fees, bail costs, and to support a minor dependent.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 7].  The court finds that the summary in the declaration satisfies the statutory requirements.     Substantive The petition seeks approval of a transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights held by transferor Ernesto Bermudez pursuant to a structured settlement entered into on behalf of Bermudez, intended as compensation for a personal injury claim, as when Bermudez was 14 years old, he fell into a hole on a school playground and suffered a hip injury that required hip replacement.  Bermudez indicates that he has since recovered and there are no longer any reoccurring medical problems related to the original injury, and no continuing need to provide for future medical expenses.  [Bermudez Decl., para. 3].   Bermudez is now 28 years old, single, and has one dependent, Sofia Bermudez, who is eight years old. [Bermudez Decl., para. 4].  He is currently incarcerated in Los Angeles County and indicates that his current income is approximately $1,415 per month from his annuity.   [Bermudez Decl., para. 4].  He indicates that he does not rely on the structured settlement payments he is proposing to assign for his day-to-day living expenses.   [Bermudez Decl., para. 4].  Bermudez has no court ordered child support or maintenance obligations. [Bermudez Decl., para. 5].  Bermudez has previously assigned a portion of his structured settlement payments rights, with the last attempt being in 2023.  [Bermudez Decl., para. 6].  Bermudez has made four prior attempts to transfer a portion of his payment rights, two of which were dismissed, and two of which were approved.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 7].   A transfer in 2023 resulted in a payment to Bermudez of $29,105.92, which funds were used for housing expenses. [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 7].  Another transfer in 2023 resulted in payment to Bermudez of $104,334.42, which funds were used toward costs related to incarceration including criminal defense, fines and court fees, bail costs, and to support the minor dependent. [Amended Sanchez Decl., para. 7].The current proposed transaction is with Apollo Mathers, LLC.  Bermudez is transferring one lump sum payment of $50,000.00 due on March 18, 2025, 2 monthly payments of $104.09 beginning January 5, 2027 through February 5, 2027, one lump sum payment of $152.21 due on March 5, 2027, 191 monthly payments of $352.83 beginning April 5, 2027 through February 5, 2043, and one lump sum payment of $200,000.00 due on March 18, 2045.  The total dollar amount of payments being sold is $335,154.09, with a discounted present value of $166,772.55.   The net amount to be paid to Bermudez is $78,394.30, with no deduction for expenses. The effective equivalent interest rate being paid on the transaction is 14.13% per year.     Bermudez states that the funds will be used primarily to pay for criminal defense costs.  [Bermudez Decl., para. 6].  He will also use the funds for housing and living expenses, with remaining amounts to be used to take care of DMV fines, to purchase a vehicle and to purchase tools to earn money as a construction laborer.   [Bermudez Decl., para. 6]. Bermudez indicates that he feels it is in his best interest to enter into this transaction so that he can have the financial means to provide for the foregoing, and also indicates that since the payments he is assigning are due in the future, he does not rely on the payments for his current wellbeing, and feels that the funds from the transaction can be better used today rather than to provide support years from now. [Bermudez Decl., para. 7].  Even after this transaction, he will continue to receive monthly payments from the structured settlement.  [Bermudez Decl., para. 7].  Under Insurance Code section 10137(a):“A transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are met: (a) The transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of his or her dependents. (b) The transfer complies with the requirements of this article, will not contravene other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the transfer as provided in Section 10139.5.”Insurance Code section 10139.5 provides the factors to be considered by the court in determining whether to approve the transfer of a structured settlement.  The highlighted factors are those which are of some concern in connection with this petition. (a) A direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective and a structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not required to make any payment directly or indirectly to any transferee of structured settlement payment rights unless the transfer has been approved in advance in a final court order based on express written findings by the court that: (1) The transfer is in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents. (2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice. (3) The transferee has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138. (4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority. (5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. (6) The payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.(b) When determining whether the proposed transfer should be approved, including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee's best interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances, including, but not limited to, all of the following: (1) The reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee's age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level. (2) The stated purpose of the transfer. (3) The payee's financial and economic situation. (4) The terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments. (5) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment. (6) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses. (7) Whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses. (8) Whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee's future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the payee's dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee's child support obligations, if any. The payee shall disclose to the transferee and the court his or her court-ordered child support or maintenance obligations for the court's consideration. (9) Whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee's stated objectives, are fair and reasonable. (10) Whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee's structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction. (11) Whether the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee's structured settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. (12) Whether, to the best of the transferee's knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. (13) Whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation. (14) Whether the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction. The court may deny or defer ruling on the petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights if the court believes that the payee does not fully understand the proposed transaction and that independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction should be obtained by the payee. (15) Any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.” The highlighted factors are of concern here.  The payee has a young dependent but is apparently facing a hardship situation.  It will be discussed at the hearing whether the hip injury has completely resolved and whether any funds should be reserved for future medical care, and whether Bermudez has medical insurance.  It appears that some funds will continue to be paid monthly to Bermudez, which appears to be due through February 18, 2043. It appears that the other payments being sold extend far enough into the future that Bermudez may not realistically have any further opportunity to obtain funds from his annuity without giving up the current monthly payments.  It is not clear if Bermudez is aware of this fact, and this issue will be discussed at the hearing. This deal, is, as usual, not a particularly favorable transaction for the transferor, but it appears that transferor is facing a hardship situation and needs the funds immediately to address his current incarceration and defense and living expenses for his dependent.   The annuity contract has not been submitted, only a benefits letter.  [Amended Sanchez Decl., Ex. A].  This situation makes it difficult to ascertain if the annuity includes a nonassignment clause.  In fact, the First Amended Petition states:“Petitioner is informed and believes and upon that basis alleges that the underlying structured settlement that established the annuity at issue in the present case contained language that restricted and/or prohibited the right and/or power to assign the Assigned Payments in question.”[First Amended Petition, para. 7].The issue of whether non-assignment clauses bar a structured settlement transfer such as the one at issue here has been addressed by case law.  The court of appeal has concluded that where notice has been provided to the interested parties, and no objection is made, the court is authorized to consider the petition regardless of the existence of a non-assignment clause:“The superior court, however, did conclude that public policy bars the waiver of the contractual antiassignment clauses with respect to factoring transactions. We disagree. We conclude that California Uniform Commercial Code section 9408 evidences a public policy against antiassignment provisions in general and that the SSTA, Insurance Code section 10136 et seq., evidences a public policy in favor of court-approved factoring transactions.  Thus, public policy favors the legal conclusion that antiassignment provisions do not bar court-approved transfers of structured settlement payments.Therefore, we conclude that, where no interested parties object to the transfer of structured settlement payment rights, the antiassignment provisions in the annuity contract, settlement agreement or other related contracts do not bar the factoring transaction at issue in this appeal.”321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009) 173 Cal. App.4th 1059, 1075-1076.  The problem here is that the letter submitted identifies addresses for the annuity holder, John Hancock Life Insurance Company, at an address in Westwood MA, and a “Mailing Address” at a post office box in Boston, MA, but the proof of service of the notice concerning the hearing shows service at a different address in Boston, and another address in Wilmington Delaware.  The court will inquire at the hearing concerning why this address was used, whether the parties can confirm that the interested parties, specifically the annuity company, have received appropriate notice of the petition hearing to object, and whether petitioner expects any objection to the transaction.  RULING:The Court has the following questions for the petitioner and transferor:What efforts made to obtain complete copy of annuity contract, qualified assignment agreement, settlement agreement, copies of documents reflecting previous transfers? Has Mr. Bermudez recovered completely from his hip injury and surgery? Are funds expected to be needed for future medical attention?  Does Mr. Bermudez have health insurance? Is Mr. Bermudez aware that this may realistically be the last opportunity to transfer funds from his annuity without involving his current monthly payment? How did petitioner determine the address of service on the annuity holder, which does not match the benefits letter?Is petitioner aware of any objection to the petition? First Amended Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights is GRANTED. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 