 Case Number:  23GDCV00358    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     7 Date:           5/17/2024Case No: 23 GDCV00358 Trial Date:  April 1, 2025Case Name: Black v. Glendale Adventist Medical CenterMOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTMoving Party: Defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D.     Responding Party: Plaintiff Jamie Black (No Opposition)  Relief Requested:Summary judgment in favor of defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D.    Causes of Action from Complaint 1) Professional Negligence 2) Violation of EMTALA, 42 USC Section 13996dd, et seq. **Request for Dismissal of the 2nd Cause of Action against defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D. filed and dismissal entered April 21, 2023.   FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiff Jamie Black alleges that in October of 2022, plaintiff, who had a history of depression, bipolar disorder, ADHD and schizophrenia, for which she had previously been placed on several 5150 involuntary psychiatric holds, went for a walk, and a group of people she encountered noticed she was upset and scared and not acting appropriately and asked if she needed an ambulance, to which plaintiff replied in the affirmative. Plaintiff alleges that paramedics were summoned, and she was transported to defendant Glendale Adventist Medical Center dba Adventist Health Center (the Hospital).  The complaint alleges that when plaintiff arrived at the Hospital, her vital signs showed she was hypersensitive and tachycardic.  While in the emergency room, when asked her name, plaintiff identified several names, which were not her correct name, and plaintiff was also unable to provide a valid social security number.  Plaintiff alleges that although attempts were made to take plaintiff’s blood and urine, the attempts were not successful.  Plaintiff alleges that she was eventually seen by defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D., who diagnosed plaintiff with, among other conditions, psychosis due to methamphetamine use, schizoaffective disorder, and PCP use, and concluded that plaintiff appeared in a psychotic state. Plaintiff alleges that she was given a dose of haloperidol, medication used to treat psychotic patients, and an injection of lorazepam, an anti-anxiety medication.  Plaintiff repeatedly requested that the psychiatrist evaluate her, and a request was entered by Dr. Freling for plaintiff to be seen by a psychiatrist.  Dr. Freling later re-evaluated plaintiff and noted that she would not provide further information to him because he was a male and had requested to speak with a female behavioral health individual, so that Dr. Freling noted that a female, Tracy previously had attempted an evaluation during which plaintiff was uncooperative, and that Tracy would attempt to evaluate plaintiff again. The complaint alleges that plaintiff engaged in behavior such as telling the nursing staff she had been poisoned and requesting an ultrasound because she believed there were drugs inside her uterus, crying loudly, screaming, pulling the curtains on other patient’s beds and screaming and yelling.  Plaintiff was asked to write down her social security number, but ultimately said she could not remember it.  The complaint alleges that later that evening Dr. Freling noted that Tracy had evaluated plaintiff and that plaintiff had been cleared by the on-call psychiatrist, although there is no record plaintiff was seen or evaluated by a psychiatrist at any time during her presentation.  It is alleged that Dr. Freling stated plaintiff was alert and oriented and had normal mood and affect, but there was no physical examination performed at that time to support such a conclusion. Dr. Freling then indicated that plaintiff would be discharged, and plaintiff requested of the nursing staff that she see someone else, but her request was denied, and she was told to call someone for a ride. Plaintiff alleges that after some further confusion, plaintiff ultimately called a friend to pick her up, and the nurses escorted plaintiff out of the hospital, essentially throwing her out of the facility, three hours after arriving, when plaintiff had never been seen or evaluated by a psychiatrist and had never had blood or urine work done. Plaintiff alleges that after many instances of improper behavior in the car once plaintiff arrived at the friend’s house, plaintiff eventually walked to an overpass above the 15 freeway in Barstow and jumped off the overpass in an attempt to kill herself, as a result of which she suffered serious injuries. The file shows that on April 21, 2023, plaintiff filed two Requests for Dismissal as to the moving party defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D.  One Request was to dismiss the second cause of action only against that defendant, the second was to dismiss the third prayer for relief only.  The third prayer for relief in the Complaint seeks, “For legal interest on judgment from the filing of this complaint to the date of judgment.”  Both dismissals were entered as requested on April 21, 2023. ANALYSIS:Procedural There has been no timely opposition filed to this motion.  Moving defendant has filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the motion, indicating that as of May 9, 2024, no timely opposition has been served.     CCP section 437c(b)(2) provides:“Any opposition to the motion shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.”Under Rule 3.1300(d), the court may, in its discretion, refuse to consider a late-filed paper, so long as it so indicates in its minutes or order. Here, the opposition papers were due to be filed by Friday, May 3 for the continued hearing date of May 17, 2023.  No opposition papers have been filed or served. CCP §437c (b)(3) sets forth the specific requirements for opposition papers, including the requirement of the filing of a separate statement of material facts.   This subdivision provides: “Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the motion.”  The motion accordingly could be granted on the ground there has been no separate statement filed.  Substantive Under CCP § 437c(p)(2) a defendant “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.  Once the defendant... has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff... to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Moving defendant Dr. Freling is the emergency medicine physician who assumed care of plaintiff Black when she arrived at the Hospital emergency department.  Defendant Dr. Freling seeks to establish that plaintiff will be unable to establish all elements of the only remaining cause of action pending against this defendant, the cause of action for medical negligence, as plaintiff will be unable to establish that the moving defendant failed to comply with the standard of care, or that any act or omission on the part of Dr. Freling caused or contributed to plaintiff’s injuries or outcomes.     To establish a cause of action for professional negligence against a medical professional such as Dr. Freling, plaintiff must plead and prove the following elements:  1) Defendant owed a legal duty to use due care;2) Defendant’s breach -- the negligent act or omission; and 3) The breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.   Elam v. College Park Hospital (1982) 132 Cal.App.3d 332, 338.   The California Supreme Court has noted in connection with medical malpractice claims against a physician that it has:“consistently held that a physician is required to possess and exercise, in both diagnosis and treatment, that reasonable degree of knowledge and skill which is ordinarily possessed and exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances.” Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 408, citations omitted.    With respect to a claim for medical negligence: “’The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony [citations], unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’ (Sinz v. Owens (1949) 33 Cal.2d 749, 753 [205 P.2d 3, 8 A.L.R.2d 757]; accord, Brown v. Colm (1974) supra, 11 Cal.3d 639, 643; Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 236-237 [104 Cal.Rptr. 505, 502 P.2d 1]; Huffman v. Lindquist (1951) 37 Cal.2d 465, 473 [234 P.2d 34, 29 A.L.R.2d 485].)”Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399.  See also Barris v. County of Los Angeles (1999) 20 Cal.4th 101, 114.  With respect to medical causation:“…medical causation can only be determined by expert medical testimony. (Gin Non Louie v. Chinese Hospital Assn. (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 774, 784 [57 Cal.Rptr. 906]; Stephenson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1962) 203 Cal.App.2d 631, 635 [21 Cal.Rptr. 646].)”Salasguevera v. Wyeth Laboratories, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 385.Under Evidence Code section 801, the opinion testimony of an expert is limited to opinions:“(a) Related to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact; and (b) Based on matter (including his special knowledge, skill, experience, training, and education) perceived by or personally known to the witness or made known to him at or before the hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his testimony relates...”Specifically, with respect to the conduct of emergency room physicians, the showing must be made by an expert with the appropriate emergency room professional experience, as Health and Safety Code section 1799.110 provides, in pertinent part:“(c) In any action for damages involving a claim of negligence against a physician and surgeon providing emergency medical coverage for a general acute care hospital emergency department, the court shall admit expert medical testimony only from physicians and surgeons who have had substantial professional experience within the last five years while assigned to provide emergency medical coverage in a general acute care hospital emergency department. For purposes of this section, "substantial professional experience" shall be determined by the custom and practice of the manner in which emergency medical coverage is provided in general acute care hospital emergency departments in the same or similar localities where the alleged negligence occurred.”Defendant Dr. Freling submits the declaration of William R. Mower, M.D., Ph.D.  The declaration adequately establishes Dr. Mower’s qualifications to testify as an expert, as Dr. Mower is a licensed physician with the appropriate education, training and professional experience, board certified in emergency medicine.  [Mower Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2].  Dr. Mower indicates that he continuously has practiced emergency medicine since he became licensed as a physician.  He has substantial professional experience working in emergency departments while assigned to provide emergency medical coverage in a general acute care hospital emergency department. [Mower Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A]. His CV shows that he has practiced as the Director of Informatics at the Emergency Department Sentinel Network—EMERGEncy ID.NET in Sylmar, California, from 1996 to the present. [Mower Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2, Ex. A].   Dr. Mower is familiar with the standard of care pertaining to patients presenting with a psychotic break or altered level of consciousness, answering questions inappropriately, which could be due to medical issues, mental issues, psychosis, or substance use.  [Mower Decl. ¶¶ 3].  He is also familiar with the duties of emergency room providers in the assessment, treatment, and discharge of patients so presenting, as well as with the standard of care for patients declining medical care, blood draws and medications in the emergency room, and the rules, responsibilities and limitations involving a 5150 hold of a patient with respect to emergency medicine physicians.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 3].     The declaration also establishes that Dr. Mower has reviewed the complaint in this matter, and appropriate patient medical records, including the records from Glendale Adventist Medical Center, as well as plaintiff’s deposition transcript and the deposition transcript of Glendale Police Department Officer Meghedi Badall.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 4].   Copies of the medical records relied on are attached to the Declaration of Lorraine Kim Hall, along with a declaration from the custodians of records.  [Hall Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. F].    Dr. Mower provides substantial testimony setting forth an understanding of the facts, and the reasons for Dr. Mower’s opinions.Specifically, Dr. Mower states that it is Dr. Mower’s opinion that the care provided by plaintiff by Dr. Freling during plaintiff’s visit to the Hospital emergency department met the standard of care throughout the entirety of her presentation to the emergency department, complied at all times with the standard of care required of an emergency department physician under the circumstances, and that  to a reasonable degree of medical probability there was no act or omission of Dr. Freling that caused or contributed to plaintiff’s injuries or outcomes.  [Mower Decl. ¶¶ 6-15].   Dr. Mower explains that upon presentation Dr. Freling correctly assessed the patient and determined a psychiatric consultation was necessary, in compliance with the standard of care.  Dr. Mower also states that, within the standard of care, given plaintiff’s presentation of altered level of consciousness and inability to answer questions appropriately, that Dr. Freling appropriately diagnosed the patient with acute psychosis, appropriately ordered laboratory studies, and appropriately ordered a psychiatric consult.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 8].  Dr. Freling was also faced with a situation where plaintiff had requested to leave, and although plaintiff now alleges that she was in a mentally unstable condition and should not have been discharged home, Dr. Mower explains that to be held against her will would have required the issuance of a 5150 hold, which Dr. Freling, as an emergency medicine physician, did not have the authority to issue. [Mower Decl. ¶ 9].  Dr. Mower indicates that Dr. Freling appropriately ordered a psychiatric consultation and ordered that the behavioral health team evaluate plaintiff a second time, after she became more cooperative.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 9].     Since neither the law enforcement officers who interviewed the patient in the emergency department nor the behavioral health team at the Hospital found grounds to issue a 5150 hold order, including the psychiatrist who consulted on this patient, and Dr. Freling was advised plaintiff did not meet the criteria and there were no grounds to keep her in the hospital against her will.  Hence, Dr. Mower opines that it was within the standard of care for Dr. Freling to rely on the assessment that plaintiff was cleared from a psychiatric standpoint and was not a danger to herself or others at the time she was discharged from the emergency department. [Mower Decl. ¶ 10-12].  Dr. Mower indicates that Dr. Freling again complied with the standard of care by ensuring the patient was medically stable for discharge, properly determining there was no medical issue separate and apart from a possible mental health issue requiring admission to the hospital.  Consequently, Dr. Mower offers the opinion that Dr. Freling had no further obligations pursuant to the standard of care, particularly once he had ordered blood work and medications which the patient had refused, which was within her right to do.  In a reevaluation, Dr. Freling confirmed that plaintiff had denied suicidal ideation, homicidal ideation and declined any further treatment at that time.  This conduct was also within the standard of care.  [Mower Decl. ¶¶ 12, 13].  Dr. Mower indicates that therefore Dr. Freling, properly discharged the patient home with a family member or friend, “Charles.”  [Mower Decl. ¶ 13].  Dr. Mower also states his opinion based upon his review of the materials in this case, and based on his education, training, and experience, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that there was no act or omission by Dr. Freling that caused or contributed to plaintiff’s injuries or outcomes because there was no medical reason at that time to admit her to a hospital.  Therefore, plaintiff’s accident from falling from/jumping off a freeway overpass was not caused by any medical condition with which she presented at the Hospital emergency department.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 14].  Dr. Mower also points out that a 5150 hold can only be issued by law enforcement officers or members of a designated psychiatric/behavioral health team, which is why the standard of care for an emergency medical physician is to follow the recommendations of the behavioral health team.  [Mower Decl. ¶ 7, 8].   Under Welfare & Institutions Code § 5150 (a):“(a) When a person, as a result of a mental health disorder, is a danger to others, or to himself or herself, or gravely disabled, a peace officer, professional person in charge of a facility designated by the county for evaluation and treatment, member of the attending staff, as defined by regulation, of a facility designated by the county for evaluation and treatment, designated members of a mobile crisis team, or professional person designated by the county may, upon probable cause, take, or cause to be taken, the person into custody for a period of up to 72 hours for assessment, evaluation, and crisis intervention, or placement for evaluation and treatment in a facility designated by the county for evaluation and treatment and approved by the State Department of Health Care Services.  At a minimum, assessment, as defined in Section 5150.4, and evaluation, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 5008, shall be conducted and provided on an ongoing basis.  Crisis intervention, as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 5008, may be provided concurrently with assessment, evaluation, or any other service.” Defendant argues that an emergency medicine provider does not have the statutory authority to place a patient under a 5150 under this section, which is correct.  Accordingly, plaintiff would be unable to establish her claim under a theory that moving defendant engaged in medical negligence by improperly failing to place plaintiff under such a hold.   It is held that “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 985, quotation omitted.    Here, the declaration of Dr. Mower sufficiently establishes that the conduct of the moving defendant fell within the applicable standard of care, and that no act or omission by the moving defendant was a substantial factor in causing or contributing to the patient’s claimed injuries, and the burden shifts to plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.  Plaintiff has failed to file or serve opposition to the motion, so has failed to come forward with conflicting expert evidence and has failed to raise triable issues in connection with the professional medical malpractice claim.  The motion accordingly is granted as to professional negligence, the only cause of action remaining against defendant Dr. Freling in the complaint.   RULING: [No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Alec Bradleigh Freling, M.D. is GRANTED. The Court finds that plaintiff has failed to file any papers opposing this motion and has failed to comply with the statutory requirement of filing a separate statement addressing each material fact raised in the moving papers.  Pursuant to CCP §437c(b), the motion is granted.   Even if the court were to consider the substance of the motion, it would be granted.  Defendant Alex Bradleigh Freling, M.D. has presented uncontradicted appropriate expert evidence by a qualified witness in emergency medicine, that Dr. Freling’s care and treatment of plaintiff Jamie Black met the standard of care in this case, and that Dr. Freling’s conduct, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, did not cause or contribute to plaintiff Black’s alleged injuries. [UMF Nos. 2-13, 21-24, and evidence cited; Mower Decl. ¶¶ 6-15].   This evidence is not disputed by plaintiff.   Without any evidence of negligence or medical causation on the part of this defendant, plaintiff will be unable to establish plaintiff’s cause of action for professional negligence against the moving defendant. Moving party to submit appropriate form of proposed judgment. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 