 Case Number:  22BBCV00991    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  4 Date: 5/17/2024 Case No:  22 BBCV00991 Trial Date:  January 27, 2025Case Name: Khachadoorian v. Mouradian, et al. MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Moving Party: Plaintiff Gewo Khachadoorian Responding Party:  Defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.   RELIEF REQUESTED: Order compelling defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc. to answer questions and produce documents pursuant to a deposition notice served on the witness on March 14, 2024 Alternatively, order compelling responses pursuant to CCP section 2031.310 and/or 2031.300 as to requests from August 2024 [sic]. FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Gewo Khachadoorian alleges that in March of 2020 plaintiff commenced a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship with defendant Talin Mouradian, who was working at a drug and alcohol rehabilitation facility.  Defendant Mouradian represented that she was an expert and well-informed on operating a rehabilitation business and suggested that they work together to establish such a business.   Plaintiff agreed to explore the idea, and approached two childhood friends, defendant Norbeh Aboolian and defendant Fred Akopyan, concerning investing in the business.    In July of 2020, the parties agreed, and all signed an agreement that each of them was the owner of 25% of the new business venture.   Plaintiff alleges that he initially invested sums totaling $35,000 in the business, and in place of further cash contribution paid defendant Mouradian’s personal expenses for six to eight months, at approximately $4,000 to $5,000 per month.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant Mouradian did not contribute or invest any funds toward the new business venture but represented that her know-how of the business would substitute for her contribution in the new business.The parties located premises for the business and filed Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State on December 8, 2020 for the business Hillcrest Recovery, Inc., which business was named Hollywood Hills Recovery.  Plaintiff and defendant Mouradian commenced fixing the physical location of the business, and obtained the necessary licenses, and the new business began functioning as an inpatient rehabilitation center.  Plaintiff and defendant Mouradian physically worked at the new business, but defendants Aboolian and Akopyan did not, but continued to be engaged in their own trucking business. The complaint alleges that the parties proceeded to hire staff, and begin promoting the business, and from July 2021 through July 2022, plaintiff attracted many patients to the business and the business received large sums of monies from insurance companies and patients, which plaintiff alleges are still maintained in the business bank accounts, for which plaintiff requires an accounting. It is also alleged that in June of 2021, plaintiff and defendants established an outpatient recovery center, bringing in defendant Phillip (“Chill”) Aguilar, who was knowledgeable about outpatient recovery systems.  Articles of Incorporation and a Statement of Information were filed for Studio 64 Recovery, the same as defendant Greatest Recovery, naming defendant Aguilar as the president, defendant Mouradian as the secretary and plaintiff has one of the directors.  The complaint alleges that this outpatient business is functioning and producing funds for the business owned by the parties in this case. The complaint alleges that the relationship between plaintiff and defendant Mouradian declined, with the parties moving out of the apartment they shared and defendant Mouradian making threats to destroy plaintiff’s life.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant Mouradian then took plaintiff’s social security card and credit cards and made unauthorized charges, causing his credit score to decrease, sent plaintiff insulting texts, attacked plaintiff’s companions, assaulted plaintiff, and hacked into plaintiff’s Google account.   Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff sought a restraining order against defendant Mouradian, and two days later defendant Mouradian filed a petition for restraining order against plaintiff, as a result of which the parties stipulated to a mutual restraining order directing each of them to stay away from the other by 100 yards.  This restraining order prevents plaintiff from visiting the business premises and from attending to business affairs.  The complaint alleges that on the date defendant Mouradian filed the petition for a restraining order against plaintiff, defendants filed Articles of Incorporation for Hollywood Hills Recovery and for Greatest Care Center, removing plaintiff’s name as director or officer of those entities.  It is also alleged that the defendant Mouradian caused damage to plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff alleges he has served the board of directors with formal notice demanding plaintiff be permitted access to the books and records, demanding that defendants provide notice of any sale, conversion, merger or transfer of any assets of the corporations, and calling a special meeting relating to the ownership interests of the shareholders.  Defendants have not permitted the accounting, have refused to call for or attend board of director meetings, and have failed to distribute profits.  Plaintiff alleges that the individual defendants, and specifically defendant Mouradian, have been guilty of or knowingly countenanced pervasive fraud, mismanagement, abuse of authorities and unfairness toward plaintiff, whose property is being misapplied. Defendants Mouradian, Aboolian, Akopyan, Aguilar, Hillcrest Recovery Inc., and Studio 64 Recovery Inc. have filed a cross-complaint against plaintiff Khachadoorian, as cross-defendant, alleging that the individual parties entered into agreements with respect to the entity defendants Hillcrest Recovery and Studio 64 Recovery for the operation of substance use disorder and mental health treatment facilities.   The cross-complaint alleges that based on the nature of the addiction treatment business, there was an implied agreement amongst the parties to maintain abstinence from drugs and alcohol, especially when they were physically present at the business premises.  The cross-complaint alleges that all of the individual parties were in recovery from addiction or alcoholism themselves at the time the businesses commenced, and sobriety was mutually understood as a critical prerequisite for participating in the business. The cross-complaint alleges that the beginning in September of 2021, cross-defendant Khachadoorian began acting erratically, so that business clients began reporting that cross-defendant appeared inebriated on site, and also that cross-defendant was developing inappropriate relationships with clients of the businesses.  In March of 2022, cross-complainants requested, and cross-defendant agreed to submit a urine specimen for toxicology testing, which specimen tested positive for alcohol, marijuana, methamphetamines and benzodiazepines.  It is alleged that when confronted with the drug test results, cross-defendant admitted to abusing drugs, and that he had stolen some of the drugs he was abusing from the businesses’ own medication disposal receptacles.   In March of 2022, cross-defendant voted unanimously with the individual cross-complainants to amend the bylaws of the corporate cross-complainants to have cross-defendant resign from all positions within the corporations, and to reflect their written agreement that any corporate shareholder would forfeit and fully relinquish their ownership interest if they failed to remain abstinent from marijuana, alcohol, non-prescribed pharmaceutical, and illegal drugs.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-complainants paid for cross-defendant’s treatment and ongoing therapy, and supported cross-defendant in obtaining treatment, but cross-defendant left inpatient drug rehab early, and clients of the businesses observed cross-defendant’s old behaviors, causing cross-complainants to believe that cross-defendant continued to abuse drugs and alcohol through this period, and they ordered plaintiff to vacate the facility, determining his behavior was counter-productive to the recovery of the other residents.  Cross-complainants allege that they tried to keep cross-defendant involved in the business by having him perform work off-site but discovered that cross-defendant had commenced a sexual relationship with a client of the businesses and had pressured the client to keep the event secret. The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant’s actions jeopardized the licensure status and damaged the reputations of the businesses, causing drastic reductions in revenues and lasting financial repercussions, including the loss of clients. Cross-complainants also allege that cross-defendant’s outside business dealings, pursuant to which cross-defendant became embroiled in a financial dispute related to a healthcare business run by cross-defendant’s mother, caused further compromise of the reputation and continued operation of the businesses.  It is also alleged that cross-defendant continued to harass staff members and patients of the businesses when he encountered them at 12-step programs in the area, and during the course of hearings in the ongoing domestic dispute with cross-complainant Mouradian.  In September of 2022, cross-complainants formally requested that cross-defendant forfeit his ownership interests in accordance with the terms of the March amendments, in response to which cross-defendant filed suit against cross-complainants.  At a December 20, 2022 meeting of the board of directors of both entities, cross-complainants cancelled cross-defendant’s stock in each corporation, and authorized payment of $20,000 from each corporation pursuant to the March amendments.  ANALYSIS:Plaintiff in the notice of motion seeks an order compelling the deposition of defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.’s person most knowledgeable, and an order that documents requested in the deposition notice be produced by defendant.  The deposition notice was served on March 14, 2024, written objections were served on March 20, 2024, and the deposition date was continued to April 4, 2024 for meet and confer concerning the document requests.  [Ruiz Decl., paras. 14-16, Exs. 9, 10].  Plaintiff indicates that the deposition was conducted on April 4, 2024, the parties met and conferred on the record concerning the document production, defendant restated defendant’s objections, and defendant refused to produce responsive documents without a court order. [Ruiz Decl. ¶ 19, Ex. 14]. Relief is sought under CCP § 2025.480, which provides, in pertinent part:(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production….”Under subdivision (i): “If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” The moving papers sufficiently establish here that defendant’s person most knowledgeable failed to produce documents requested in the deposition notice, which, as discussed below, is ordered to be produced on the resumption of the deposition.  The court accordingly grants the motion and issues an order compelling plaintiff’s person most knowledgeable to answer further questions at the resumed deposition.  It appears from all of the papers submitted that the parties would in any case be resuming the deposition.  At the resumed deposition, questions may be asked of the witness concerning the documents to be produced.       With respect to the documents requested, the motion also seeks that the court order defendant to provide document production along with further testimony.  As quoted above, the statute permits documents to be ordered produced which are “subject to discovery.” Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  Plaintiff relies on a separate statement which addresses all 18 of the document production requests in the deposition notice.  Defendant in the opposition argues that the notice of motion is unclear and defective, as it does not specify which of the requests for production are being pursued.  The notice of motion refers to compelling a deposition and the production of documents, requesting “an order compelling Hillcrest Recover, Inc. to answer questions and produce documents pursuant to a deposition notice properly served on the witness on March 14, 2024.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1345 (d), “a motion concerning interrogatories, inspection demands, or admissions requests must identify the interrogatories, demands or requests by set and number.”  The notice specifies the date of the deposition notice, which is sufficient to identify the “set” of the subject discovery, which are requests in a deposition notice, not any of the enumerated discovery methods, and, in any case, also impliedly gives sufficient notice that plaintiff is pursuing all of the requests for production.  To the extent defendant argues that the notice is confusing with respect to whether defendant is moving on the deposition notice or on an earlier propounded written Request for Documents, the request for relief with respect to that written discovery is sought in the notice of motion, “[a]lternatively.” Since the relief requested is granted with respect to the deposition notice, as discussed above and below, the court need not consider the request for alternative relief.     Defendant argues that the notice fails to include the correct address and department where the motion will be held, giving an address in Burbank and identifying the department of the Honorable Ralph C. Hofer as department B.  Defendant, however, has filed written opposition in the correct department, addressing the merits of the motion, and by this argument concedes defendant understands where the matter will be heard. It is held that insufficient or defective notice may be waived if opposing counsel argues the merits of the motion.  Alliance Bank v. Murray (1984, 2nd Dist) 161 Cal.App.3d 1, 7; Carlton v. Quint (2000, 2nd Dist.) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697. The court under the circumstances will deem any objection to the sufficiency of the notice waived.  Defendant also argues that the motion to compel based on the deposition requests is defective because plaintiff fails to sufficiently show that plaintiff met and conferred in good faith concerning the deposition requests, as opposed to concerning the requests for production of documents, a protective order, and entitlement to inspect records as a shareholder.   Under CCP section 2025.480 (b) a motion for an order compelling answer or production at deposition, “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”   The declaration in support of the motion indicates that after the Notice of Deposition and Request for Production of Documents was served, and the Objections were served, restating the same objections to the demand for inspection, defendant requested a continuance of the deposition so the parties could meet and confer about a protective order.  [Ruiz Decl., para. 15, 16, Ex. 11].  The declaration describes that counsel met and conferred as to defendant’s proposed protective order, which had a caveat on which the sides disagreed, and attaches a meet and confer letter concerning the protective order, which is intended to permit the release of financial information by defendant, which at that time was being requested through the deposition notice.  [Ruiz Decl., para. 17, Ex. 12, 13]. Defendant did not respond to that letter.  [Ruiz Decl., para. 18]. The meet and confer declaration also states that at the April 4, 2024 deposition the documents were not produced, and counsel met and conferred on the record as to the document production, and defendant’s counsel restated his objections on the grounds of privacy, and trade secret to production of financial records.  [Ruiz Decl., para.  19, Ex. 14].  The declaration also indicates that after the deposition, on April 23, 2024, counsel again “met and conferred with Defense counsel over the phone” about the production sought in a prelitigation and post litigation demands for inspection, and the March 2023 demand for inspection of records, which is evidently a reference to the March 2024 deposition demand, as the original written demand was made in the month of August 2023.  [Ruiz Decl., paras. 5, 20].  The outcome of this conversation was that “Defendant’s counsel stated the records would not be produced and they stand by their objection.”  [Ruiz Decl., para. 20]. The opposition argues that the deposition transcript submitted shows that there was no meet and confer on the record, but counsel for defendant stated he would meet and confer off the record, then confirm any agreement on the record but counsel for plaintiff refused and insisted any meet and confer take place on the record.  The exchange at issue appears to be the following: “MR. LACHANT: We lodged objections in our response. We do have a production with us here today. We're happy to meet and confer – MR. RUIZ: Okay. Let's do that on the record. MR. LACHANT: -- to reach an agreement as to what we're willing to produce. MR. RUIZ: Okay.· And let's do that on the record. What are you willing to produce? MR. LACHANT:· Can we go off the record? MR. RUIZ: No.· I want it on the record. MR. LACHANT:· Meet -- we'll have to meet and confer by letter then. If you want it on the record – MR. RUIZ: Okay. So you're refusing to provide them right now.  MR. LACHANT: No.We've lodged our objections. We stand by our objections. We have objections as to your request is overbroad as to scope and time. There's some attorney-client privileged information in some of these corporate minutes and so, yeah, we stand by our objection. We're happy to meet and confer with you off the record and then put on the record, you know, what our agreement is or what not our agreement is if we can't reach an agreement, but we have a limited production that I think we can make subject to and reserving all rights with respect to our objections and, you know, we're happy to produce records. We offered a very broad protective order and I stand by our objections. And we'll meet and confer off the record and put the findings of the meet and confer on the record. MR. RUIZ:· Okay. And I'll read into the record your objection or you can read it in. MR. LACHANT:· The record of our objections? MR. RUIZ:· For just this request, for Number 15. MR. LACHANT:· Well, I have our objections with us. The document speaks for itself what objections we lodged.· We don't have to read it into the record. MR. RUIZ:· That's fine. MR. LACHANT:· You were timely served with objections.”[Ruiz Decl. Ex. 14, pp. 38-39].  Counsel for defendant argues this was not a meet and confer on the record, and that during the April 24, 2024 call, defendant’s counsel again stated that his client would produce “every document subject to the then-proposed draft protective order,” but plaintiff’s counsel refused to stipulate to the protective order, and “did not mention the request for production of documents associated with the April 4, 2024 deposition at any time during our call.”  [Lachant Decl., para. 4]. The argument is evident that had it been clearer that this last discussion was about the deposition requests, defendant was prepared to produce documents and further meet and confer concerning the scope of production.   Defendant’s counsel for this argument relies on an email defendant’s counsel sent after the April 24, 2024 call, in which he discusses the time that plaintiff’s deposition will begin the following day, and states, “Regarding the summary of the protective order discussion, I will follow up on that issue in a separate email when time permits.”  [Lachant Decl., Ex. B].  It is clear that by this point, and even continuing into the opposition to this motion, defendant was standing by the position that the documents regarding defendant would not be produced unless plaintiff agreed to a protective order in which plaintiff waived plaintiff’s privacy interests in his medical records.  [See Ruiz Decl., Exs. 12, 13].  This waiver of plaintiff’s privacy does not appear to have any connection to a protective order sought in connection with trade secret and financial privacy objections made by defendant. The court under the circumstances finds that the meet and confer efforts by plaintiff were sufficient and the parties had reached an impasse which has existed and has been unable to be resolved despite efforts to do so since the service of the objections, throughout the deposition itself, and in meet and confer following the refusal to produce documents at deposition.  The court will address the merits of the motion, which are set forth in the papers, declarations and separate statements filed by each side.  As noted above, the standard to be applied to document requests in this context is set forth in CCP § 2025.480 (i), which provides: “If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.”  The “good cause” requirement that defendant relies upon so heavily is not set forth in CCP section 2025.480, as it is in section 2025.450 or in the general statutes applying to document demands not affiliated with a deposition notice.  Request No. 1  Request No. 1 seeks a copy of defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.’s accounting files, including any electronically stored information within any software program such as Quickbooks or any similar accounting program from the December 8, 2020 to June 30, 2023.   The response is:“General objections are incorporated by this reference. Defendant further objects on the ground that the term “accounting files” is vague and ambiguous. The request fails to provide the necessary specificity to discern which specific accounting files or data are being sought in the context of this discovery request. The term "accounting files" fails to provide clear guidance on the scope of the request for production, making it impossible for us to accurately determine what information is being sought, thereby rendering the request unduly unclear and ambiguous. The request is also broad as to scope and time. The request also fails to specify in what form the accounting files exist. Discovery is ongoing and Defendant reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response.” The court disfavors proceeding by “General objections” which are incorporated into responses.  The court also does not find acceptable a response that states discovery is ongoing and the responding party reserves the right to amend or supplement its response.  Plaintiff argues that the request seeks files or books which contain the income and expenses of Hillcrest, which includes receipts, invoices, checks, payments, etc., which is broad but also requests the Quickbooks for the organization, which generally contains the information requested.Plaintiff argues that the information is discoverable and directly relevant with respect to plaintiff’s claims relating to plaintiff’s interest in Hillcrest as an owner of the organization, the conversion of assets by the remaining defendants, exclusion of plaintiff from the organization and a conspiracy to take plaintiff’s interest without just compensation.  The information is also directly relevant to the allegations by Hillcrest and other defendants in the cross-complaint, and plaintiff/cross-defendant’s defense against claims that he engaged in behavior which destroyed the business, including claims for lost patients, costs for remediating his alleged harmful conduct and reduction to revenue of the organization.  This request seeks information which is subject to discovery in this matter. Defendant must therefore justify any objections to the production of responsive documents which are otherwise subject to discovery. Defendant in the opposition argues that the request is vague and ambiguous with respect to the term “accounting files.”  This term is not vague, and the motion clarifies that what is sought is what would be on a Quickbooks program.  Defendant does not argue that there is no Quickbooks program or similar program including the information sought.  This objection has not been justified.  Defendant also argues that the request is overbroad but does not explain how the request for documents from December of 2020 to June 30, 2023, covering a period of two and a half years, and in which information is electronically stored, is overbroad.  This timeframe is the period during which Hillcrest was forming or operating and for which Hillcrest itself is seeking significant damages.   The objection is not specific, and this does not appear to be an unusual case; for example, defendant does not argue that there are seven rooms full of these documents through which plaintiff would be required to cull.  See, e.g. Mead Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Court (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 313, 318 (uncontradicted declarations showed over 13,000 claims would have to be reviewed, requiring 5 claims adjusters working full time for 6 weeks each); Civil Proc. Before Trial (Cal. Practice Guide, the Rutter Group, 2024 rev.) sec. 8:1475, 1475.1, 1475.4.  Here, there are no unusual circumstances asserted or other facts which justifies this objection.  Defendant also argues that the requested accounting records implicate defendant’s right to privacy in its financial records and involve trade secrets.  With respect to financial privacy, the financial information being sought is the information concerning the business run by the responding party Hillcrest, a business entity, so it is not the private financial information of a natural person.   It is held that personal financial information comes within the zone of privacy protected by article I, section 1 of the California Constitution.  Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.    This privacy protection is not absolute but may be abridged to accommodate a compelling state interest, which has been held to include “the historically important state interest of facilitating the ascertainment of truth in connection with legal proceedings.”   Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859. Defendant cites Moskowitz v. Superior Court (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, disapproved on other grounds in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 558, n. 8, in which the court of appeal held:“When an individual’s right of privacy in his financial affairs conflicts with the public need for discovery in litigation, the competing interests must be carefully balanced.   Even where the balance weighs in favor of disclosure of private information, the scope of the discovery will be narrowly circumscribed; such an invasion of the right of privacy must be drawn with narrow specificity and is permitted only to the extent necessary for a fair resolution of the lawsuit.”Moskowitz, at 316.This privacy protection may also apply to corporate entities.   H&M Associates v. City of El Centro (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 399, 409.   However, defendant recognizes that the right of privacy for corporate entities is lesser than those afforded individuals.  Defendant cites Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, in which the court of appeal observed: “Although corporations have a lesser right to privacy than human beings and are not entitled to claim a right to privacy in terms of a fundamental right, some right to privacy exists. Privacy rights accorded artificial entities are not stagnant but depend on the circumstances.”Roberts, at 796  The court of appeal in Roberts further noted:“Corporations can claim no equality with individuals in the enjoyment of a right to privacy. There is no need for the meticulous and careful scrutiny that is accorded more fundamental interests. Accordingly, the compelling state interest test is not appropriate.”Roberts, at 796-797. The court must determine whether the privacy right of a business entity is outweighed by the relevance of the information sought to the subject matter in the pending action, and “doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.”   Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579.   Where the trial court has conducted this balancing, its determination with respect to protection of financial information is reviewed for abuse of discretion.   Hecht, at 600. Defendant in opposition argues that privacy concerns can be addressed through a protective order, which Hillcrest appears to agree should be entered by the court here.   In general, in evaluating a privacy claim the court should apply the framework established in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1. First, a claimant must possess a “legally protected privacy interest.” Hill, at 35.  Second, the claimant must have a reasonable expectation of privacy under the particular circumstances, including the customs, practices, and physical settings surrounding particular activities.  Hill, at 36-37.  Third, the invasion of privacy must be serious in nature, scope, and actual or potential impact.  Hill, at 37.  If there is a reasonable expectation of privacy and the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing or countervailing interests.  Hill, at 37-40. The California Supreme Court, in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, reiterated that the Hill analysis is to be applied in determining the scope of discovery of private information, and that the burden to establish a privacy interest remains initially with the party asserting such an interest:  “The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the provision's central concern. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35, 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 P.2d 633.) In Hill, we established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Id. at pp. 35–37, 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 P.2d 633.) The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. (Id. at pp. 37–40, 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 P.2d 633.).”Williams, at 552. Here, defendant argues that Hillcrest plainly has a protected interest in its accounting files and has a reasonable expectation of privacy.  It is not clearly argued that the threatened invasion of privacy here is serious. Defendant also concedes that plaintiff claims the matters are relevant to determining a valuation of the business and to defend against defendant’s claims for damages, which is a legitimate countervailing interest favoring disclosure.   As the party seeking protection, defendant argues that plaintiff does not have an interest in the entirety of the business’s financial records, but defendant does not propose a subset or a narrowing which would address the wrongdoing asserted by both plaintiff and cross-complainants concerning the operation of the business.  Defendant seems to concede that this objection, as well as the trade secret objection, can be addressed by the entry of a protective order to limit the dissemination of the material to be produced to this litigation.  This approach is an appropriate solution. Under the circumstances, the court is skeptical that defendant has met its initial burden to establish that the threatened intrusion into private information of the entity defendant is serious.  Even if such a showing were to be assumed here, plaintiff has established a legitimate and important interest in pursuing relevant information in connection with the claims in this action and the cross-action concerning the operation of the business, and the damages being claimed by each side to their respective interests in the business.  There does not appear to be any less intrusive means to discover the information.  Hence, the court finds that the need for this information outweighs any privacy invasion argued by defendant, particularly once the parties enter into a stipulated protective order, or the court issues such an order, limiting disclosure of the information to those involved in this action.     The parties are ordered to meet and confer with respect to entering a protective order, and to use the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court as a model, and which will serve as the court’s default.  The parties should provide to the Court within five calendar days a redlined or compare copy of the proposed order as compared to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form, as required by the model, and the order will be reviewed by and entered by the court as appropriate.  Defendant has failed in opposition to justify any of the objections addressed, and once the protective order is in place, defendant must serve further responses without objection, and produce all responsive documents to this request.  Requests Nos. 2-4 These requests seek a copy of defendant’s general ledgers from December 8, 2020 to June 30, 2023, a copy of balance sheets and a copy of profit and loss statements for the same period.    The responses are that general objections are incorporated by reference and discovery is ongoing. Defendant in opposition makes the same arguments concerning financial privacy, trade secrets, and overbreadth, with no further details or explanation how such objections would apply specifically to these financial records, and how any objections would not be satisfied by the entry of a protective order.  The motion is granted.  The court orders further responses without objections and production of all responsive documents. Requests No. 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18 These requests seek appraisals of Hillcrest’s market value and goodwill, statements for loans, copies of lease agreements, promissory notes, deeds of trust for real property, bylaws, and documents showing capital contributions of shareholders. Defendant in the opposing separate statement indicates as to each of these requests, “Defendant agrees to file an amended response.”  The motion is granted.  The court orders further responses without objections and production of all responsive documents. Requests Nos. 7, 8 These requests seek a list identifying the number of persons who have received services from defendant from December 8, 2020 to the present, and the amount of consideration paid by persons who have received such services.   The responses are that general objections are incorporated, that the requests are vague, and that the requests are in fact interrogatories, and not requests for production of documents.  Plaintiff in the moving papers argues that the requests seek a list, if such a list exists, and documentation recording the amounts which have been paid to Hillcrest by clients.    Defendant in opposition makes the same arguments discussed above, and also argues that the requests are in fact interrogatories, and that without specification of a list type, it is unclear where to locate or compile the information. These requests seek responsive lists and documentation, and that if a list does not exist, the proper response would be that there is no responsive document.  It would then be up to plaintiff to propound an interrogatory or seek the information in some other fashion. The motion is granted, and the court orders further responses without objections and production of all responsive documents. Request No. 14  This request seeks “a copy of showing your accounts receivable as of June 30, 2023.” The response incorporates general objections and additionally argues that the request is unintelligible as written, seeking a copy of something but not identifying what. Plaintiff indicates that the request seeks “documents” showing the accounts receivables. It is fairly obvious that the request seeks documentation showing accounts receivables and a business such as defendant would reasonably be expected to understand what accounts receivables of a business would mean.    Defendant in opposition argues that the ambiguity of this request is underscored by the fact that plaintiff introduced the term “documents” in the separate statement, but not in the request itself.  This assertion is not a ground for denying a request which has been clarified and should have been understood to have been a typographical omission to begin with.Specifically, Appendix 3.A of the LASC Local Rules, in guidelines adopted by the Los Angeles County Bar Association and by the Los Angeles Superior Court, provides, with respect to document demands, “(3)  In responding to document demands, counsel should not strain to interpret the request in an artificially restrictive manner in order to avoid disclosure.”  See LASC Rule 3.26; Appendix 3.A.(f)(3).     The motion is granted, and the court orders further responses to the request as modified to seek, “a copy of documents showing your accounts receivable as of June 30, 2023.”   The further response is without objections, and all responsive documents are ordered to be produced. Request No. 15This request seeks a copy of all corporate minutes for all meetings, regular or special, from December 2020 through the present. The response is that general objections are incorporated by reference, and that discovery is ongoing. These minutes are clearly relevant to the allegations in both the complaint and the cross-complaint concerning the operation of the business and the timeline concerning when certain actions were taken by plaintiff and defendants including Hillcrest officers and members, as well as in connection with plaintiff’s claimed entitlement to business record inspection.   The materials accordingly are discoverable since that the defendant must justify any objection and refusal to produce.   Defendant in opposition argues that the request is overbroad and lacks specificity related to the topics pertinent to the litigation.  The request is only for such records for less than four years, and this overbreadth objection is not explained.  Defendant also argues that defendant raises specific objection regarding the production of minutes that contain summaries of attorney-client privileged materials.  Defendant then specifies five dates of minutes which “contain information protected by the attorney-client privilege.”  [Aboolian Decl., para. 7].  It is not clear how any attorney-client privilege would not be waived to the extent material is included in corporate minutes which are open to inspection by those other than the clients in this case.  In any case, to the extent defendant intends to redact certain minutes or withhold information based on the attorney-client privilege, the court requires with the further responses and production the submission  of a privilege log. Specifically, the court refers to the provisions applicable to document demands in general, which the court finds is properly incorporated to address this dispute, CCP §2031.240 (c)(1) which provides:“(c)(1) If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.” The court finds that a privilege log is appropriate and necessary here.  Under Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc v. Superior Court (1997, 2nd Dist.) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 130, the information provided must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination whether the document is, in fact, privileged.  It is held:“In general, … a privilege log typically should provide the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document, the document's date, a brief description of the document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.”Catalina Island Yacht Club v Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130, citations omitted.  With respect to the attorney-client privilege only, as to this request only, the court orders further responses without objections other than those objections, which are to be fully supported by an appropriate objection and a privilege log directed to the specific material which defendant is claiming is subject to the privilege. The motion is granted, and the court orders further responses without objections, other than those based on attorney-client privilege, as discussed above, and production of all responsive non-privileged documents. Request No. 16This request seeks a copy of all “corporate resolutions from December 2020 through present.” The response is that general objections are incorporated by reference, and discovery is continuing. Defendant argues that plaintiff has failed to show relevance of these materials, but as discussed above in connection with Request No. 15 for corporate minutes, these are clearly relevant to the timeline relied upon by both sides in this dispute to support their competing claims.   Defendant also argues that plaintiff has not narrowed the request but makes no suggestion concerning what narrowing would be appropriate, or why the request is overly broad as to time.  Defendant has failed to justify the objections. The motion is granted, and the court orders further responses without objections and production of all responsive documents.  The motion is granted pursuant to CCP § 2025.480 (a) and (i) and the court will issue an order compelling production, the court having determined that the production sought is subject to discovery.  Production will be ordered to be made on the resumption of the deposition, pursuant to CCP § 2025.480 (i). Sanctions This posture leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by both sides.  Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions for the expense of having to bring this motion.Under CCP § 2025.480 (j):“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless if finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”CCP § 2023.010 (d) provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”   CCP § 2023.030(a) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against a party and its attorney for misuse of the discovery process.  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.   Here, the court orders the production of the documents previously withheld, and defendant has unsuccessfully opposed the motion.  Defendant argues that defendant was substantially justified in its conduct, as the discovery invoked trade secrets, and that the motion would not have been necessary had plaintiff properly met and conferred concerning the documents with respect to the deposition notice. As discussed above, the motion sufficiently establishes that plaintiff met and conferred in good faith concerning the issues raised in this motion, many of which the opposition continues to raise and rely on.  Defendant has continued to take an improper position with respect to the content of any protective order, when a reasonable and standard protective order would have resolved this dispute as to several of the requests and eliminated any need on the part of defendant to continue to protect its trade secrets.  Under these circumstances, the expense of having had to make this motion to obtain an order concerning the production is appropriately shifted to defendant, since its conduct necessitated the motion. The sanctions sought are $8,851.67.   As argued in the opposition, the sanctions are sought in the notice of motion against only defendant Hillcrest, so may not be awarded against defendant’s attorneys.  CCP § 2023.040 requires, in pertinent part that, “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party and attorney against whom the sanction is sought…”  The notice does not identify any party, person, or attorney other than defendant Hillcrest.  The sanctions are awarded only against defendant Hillcrest.     Defendant also argues that the sanctions sought include substantial fees and costs unrelated to the bringing of this motion and should be limited to the fees associated with bringing the motion. The fees sought include time from before the deposition notice was served.  As noted above, the motion is not considered or granted with respect to the August 2023 document demands, so the time pursuing that discovery will not be awarded.  In addition, it appears from a review of all of the papers, as well as the excerpts of the deposition transcript submitted that the deposition was not entirely concluded, but it was expected that there would be another session, and that topics of substance were addressed at the deposition with the witness, so that the time spent at the deposition will not have been wasted, and the deposition costs would have been required to have been incurred twice regardless of the necessity for bringing or the outcome of this motion.  The court finds that of the 16.1 hours at $300 sought for activity unrelated to the pursuing of the relief in this motion plaintiff’s counsel reasonably spent three (3) hours of time meeting and conferring and reviewing the protective order after the deposition notice was served, and during and after the deposition. The remaining fees, for 8 hours associated with this motion, are reasonable, and are awarded along with the three (3) hours awarded above, for a total of 11 hours at $300 per hour, $3,300 in fees.   The costs sought for filing fees, $61.65 plus $7.26 and $7.26 (reply) efiling fees will be awarded ($76.17).  The costs sought for the court reporter and transcript of the deposition ($1,775.40) under the circumstances are not shifted to defendant and are not awarded.  This result leaves a sanctions award of 11 hours at $300 per hour, plus costs of $$61.65 plus $7.26 and $7.26 for a total award of $3,376.17.  Monetary sanctions are sought by defendant based on defendant’s argument that plaintiff brought this motion before first properly meeting and conferring.  As discussed above, the court does not find that the meet and confer was insufficient.  Sanctions are not awarded on this ground.  RULING:Plaintiff Gewo Khachadoorian’s Motion to Compel Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.’s Production of Documents is GRANTED, pursuant to CCP § 2025.480.  Defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc. is ordered to serve further responses to the Documents to be Produced section included in Plaintiff Gewo Khachadoorian’s Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Demand for Production of Documents and Things served on March 14, 2024, Requests Nos. 1-18, and to produce for inspection at deposition all materials described in the Notice of Taking Deposition.  The further response to Request No. 14 shall respond to the modified Request which is corrected by the Court to seek, “A copy of documents showing your accounts receivable as of June 30, 2023.”The Court determines that the production sought is subject to discovery.  Pursuant to CCP § 2025.480 (i), production is ordered to be made on the resumption of the deposition, which is ordered to occur on a mutually convenient date no later than June 21, 2024.  Amended responses are to be served within five days of the entry by the Court of a protective order, and such responses and the production are to be without objections, except for the amended response and production in response to Request No. 16, which may, if appropriate, assert objections based on attorney client privilege.  Such objections shall be limited to corporate minutes dated December 30, 2022, November 25, 2022, October 28, 2022, September 20, 2022, August 30, 2022, and such objections must be accompanied by a privilege log.  The Court finds a privilege log is necessary and must be included in any further response to Request No. 16 which includes objections on these grounds.  The privilege log must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination whether a withheld document is, in fact, privileged.  See Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc v. Superior Court (1997, 2nd Dist.) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 130.   The privilege log must provide the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document, the document's date, a brief description of the document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.  See Catalina Island Yacht Club v Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130. The Court has reviewed all other objections, and finds that defendant has failed to justify them, and they are without merit, so that all other objections are OVERRULED. Specifically with respect to the objection concerning financial privacy, as discussed in detail above, defendant has not met the burden to establish a threatened intrusion into private information on the part of the entity defendant that is “serious.”  Even if such a showing had been made, plaintiff has established a legitimate and important interest in pursuing relevant information in connection with the claims in this action in both the complaint and cross-complaint, and it appears that direct responses to the requests are the least intrusive means to discover the information.  The Court finds the need for this information outweighs any privacy invasion argued by defendant, particularly once the parties enter into a stipulated protective order, limiting disclosure of the information to those involved in this action.     The parties are ordered to meet and confer with respect to entering a protective order, and to use the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court as a model.  The parties are ordered to provide to the Court within five calendar days a redlined or compare copy of the proposed order as compared to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form, as required by the model, and the Court will review the order, considering the form the Court’s default, and a protective order will be entered by the Court as appropriate. The Court does not find acceptable a response to discovery which states that discovery is continuing or reserves the right to amend or supplement discovery responses.  Alternative request for order compelling responses pursuant to CCP section 2031.310 and/or 2031.300 as to requests from August 2023 is NOT CONSIDERED BY THE COURT in light of the granting of relief under CCP § 2025.480, as set forth above.To the extent defendant argues that the Court should not grant relief pursuant to the Corporations Code, the Court does not do so, as such relief was not sought in the notice of motion and does not appear to the Court to be separately pursued in the moving papers in any event. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $3,300.00 (11.0 hours @ $300/hour) [23.1 hours requested/11 recommended adjustment] plus costs of $61.65 plus $7.26 and $7.26 filing fees [Amount Requested $8,631.57/Amount Recommended Adjusted $3,376.17], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Gewo Khachadoorian, and against defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc., payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.480(j), 2023.010(d) and 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).   Monetary sanctions sought in the opposition are DENIED. Defendant Hillcrest Recovery, Inc.’s Request to Strike the Declaration of Estivi Ruiz in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED.  However, to the extent the request is construed as evidentiary objections, the Court has not found the quoted testimony relevant to the issues necessary to the determination of the motion.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 