  Case Number:  23CHCV01602    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/13/24
Case #23CHCV01602
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
Motion filed on 5/7/24.  
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Janet Schori, M.D.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
William Angulo, a minor through his Guardian ad Litem, Joseph Angulo and Michellyn
Russell 

NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant Janet Schori, M.D. and against Plaintiffs
William Angulo, a minor through his Guardian ad Litem, Joseph Angulo, and Michellyn
Russell.

 
RULING: The hearing will be continued.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Plaintiffs Michellyn Russel (Michellyn) and Joseph Angulo
(Joseph) filed this action on behalf of themselves and their son Plaintiff
William Angulo (William) (collectively, Plaintiffs) against several medical
providers, including Defendant Janet Schori, M.D. (Dr. Schori), for
professional/medical negligence (alleged on behalf of Michellyn and William) and
negligent infliction of emotional distress (alleged on behalf of Michellyn and
Joseph) arising out of the care and treatment provided to Michellyn and William
during the course of the pregnancy and the birth of William.  (Complaint ¶¶3, 8).  Plaintiffs allege that all of the defendants
acted below the standard of care by improperly and negligently providing continuing
prenatal care and care associated with the birth of William which resulted in
injuries.  (Complaint ¶¶8-9). 
 
On 12/6/23, this Court overruled Dr. Schori’s demurrer to
the 1st cause of action for professional/medical negligence and sustained
with 30 days leave to amend Dr. Schori’s demurrer to the 2nd cause
of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress.  (See 12/6/23 Minute Order).  On 12/11/23, 5 days later, Dr. Schori filed
an answer to the complaint.  No amended
complaint nor dismissal of the 2nd cause of action has been filed.  As such, the status of the 2nd
cause of action is not clear.  
 
On 5/7/24, Dr. Schori filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant Janet Schori,
M.D. and against Plaintiffs William Angulo, a minor through his Guardian ad
Litem, Joseph Angulo, and Michellyn Russell on the issue of Medical
Negligence.  On 7/30/24, Plaintiffs’
attorney filed and served a request for a 60-day continuance of the hearing on
the motion and for the submission of opposition papers.  
 
Plaintiffs’ attorney indicates that two days before the
opposition to the motion was due, he  was
diagnosed with lymphoma.  (Garrotto
Decl.).  Plaintiffs’ attorney indicates
that he advised Dr. Schori’s counsel of his intention to request a
continuance.  Id.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Based on the request for a continuance from Plaintiffs’
counsel and lack of opposition/response to the request from the other parties
to the action, the hearing on the motion will be continued.  
 
However, the Court notes that the parties must clarify
the status of the 2nd cause of action.  Additionally, the parties are advised that future
requests for continuances made by the non-moving party on a motion should be
made by ex parte application or stipulation and order.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The hearing will be continued approximately 60 days.  Opposition and reply papers are due pursuant
to CCP 437c(b) based on the continued hearing date.  See CCP 437c(b)(2), (4).  
 
 