  Case Number:  23STCP02938    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  39 Bristol Farms v.
Heritage Two LLC, et al.
Case No.
23STCP02938
Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award
 
            Petitioner
Bristol Farms, doing business as Lazy Acres Market, Inc., prevailed in an
arbitration against Jeffrey B. Panosian and Clare B. Panosian (the “Panosians”)
stemming from two leases, one dated February 3, 1995, and one dated April 21,
1995.  With respect to the first lease,
the arbitrators found in favor of Petitioner, and against the Panosians, in the
amount of $33,026.40.  (See Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award, Attachment 8(c), ¶ 1(b).)  With respect to the second lease, the
arbitrators found in favor of Petitioner, and against the Panosians, in the
amount of $39,615.  (See id., Attachment
8(c), ¶ 2(b).)  The arbitrators found
that the administrative fees and arbitrators’ compensation “shall be borne as
incurred,” and each party shall be responsible for paying their own attorneys’
fees and costs.  (See id., Attachment
8(c), ¶ 4.)  The Panosians do not oppose
the petition.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court confirms the arbitration award in favor of Petitioner,
against the Panosians, in the amount of $72,641.40.  By order made at the evidentiary hearing with
the consent of the parties, Heritage Two LLC was joined as a party Respondent
because the Panosians transferred their ownership interests in the leases to
that entity during the arbitration.  (See
Declaration of Carl L. Grumer, Exh. #1, p. 6.) 
Therefore, the Court grants the petition with respect to both the
Panosians and Heritage Two LLC.  The
award does not reference prejudgment interest, but Petitioner is entitled to
post-judgment interest at the statutory interest rate.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants the petition and
confirms the arbitration award against Jeffrey B. Panosian, Clare B. Panosian,
and Heritage Two LLC in the amount of $72,641.40.  Petitioner shall be entitled to post-judgment
interest from the date of the judgment.
 
            2.         As the Court has decided the only
relief requested in the petition, so the Court sets no future dates.  The Court’s clerk shall update to the docket
to reflect that the case has been resolved.
 
            3.         Petitioner may lodge a proposed
judgment with the Court if necessary.  
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
