 Case Number:  24STCP00557    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  82 Citizens for Chiquita Canyon Closure                   Case No. 24STCP00557
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: September 24, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
                                                                                    Department:
82
County
of Los Angeles,                                            Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Sustaining Demurrers to Second
Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and
Injunctive Relief 
 
 
INTRODUCTION

            
            The
Citizens for Chiquita Canyon Closure (“Petitioner”) filed this action in 2024 for
a writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief seeking to
void a conditional use permit in 2017, which approved the ongoing operations
and expansion of the Chiquita Canyon Landfill, and to stop the Landfill’s
continued operations.  This is not the
first such petition.  In 2017, after the
Board of Supervisors approved the permit, three other citizens groups filed a
petition for a writ of mandate, arguing that the County failed to comply with
the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code, sections
21000, et seq. (“CEQA”) when it issued the conditional use permit.  The court (Beckloff, J.) denied the petition,
and the District Court of Appeal affirmed that decision. 
 
            The
court previously sustained Respondents’ demurrers to the first amended petition.  The court found that any challenge to the
issuance of the conditional use permit in 2017 was untimely.  The court found that Petitioner’s challenge
to the manner in which the County enforces the permit is discretionary action s
that falls outside the scope of the court’s authority under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.  Petitioner filed
a second amended petition, and these demurrers followed.  
 
            Now,
Petitioner alleges that the County’s response to “recent unforeseen chemical
reactions” at the Landfill required a new environmental impact report (“EIR”)
under CEQA.  This claim fails because
Petitioner does not sufficiently allege that the County issued a permit or
undertook a
“discretionary project” that would trigger a requirement to prepare a new EIR
under CEQA.  To the contrary, Petitioner
alleges that the South Coast Air Quality Management District—not the County—issued
the 2023 variances at issue.  At heart,
it appears that Petitioner challenges the County’s placement of the Landfill
and decision to operate and expand its operations.  While the court is sympathetic to
Petitioner’s concerns about the Landfill, Petitioner’s remedy lies with the
County and the political process, not the court.  Therefore, the court sustains Respondents’
demurrers.  
 


 
SUMMARY OF
PETITION 
 
Petitioner is a “grass-roots, nonprofit
corporation based in Val Verde, California.” 
(SAP ¶ 5.)  Real Parties “own,
operate, manage and control the Chiquita Canyon Landfill [hereafter, ‘Landfill’],
a Class III non-hazardous waste facility, located at 29201 Henry Mayo Drive,
Castaic, California 91384.” (Id. ¶ 10.) 
The Landfill first began accepting waste in or about 1972.  (Id. Exh. 19 at 9.)
 
            In 2004, Real Party in Interest
Chiquita Canyon LLC (“Chiquita”) filed applications for a conditional use
permit to continue to operate the Landfill and to expand its operations.  (Id. ¶ 39.)  The County prepared an environmental impact
report (“EIR”) pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”),
which concluded that “environmental impacts [from] the Project will be reduced
to less than significant levels, except for impacts to air quality, greenhouse
gas emissions, and climate change.”  (Id.
¶ 45.)
 
            On July 25, 2017, the Board of
Supervisors approved Conditional Use Permit No. 2004-00042-(5) (the “conditional
use permit”) authorizing continued operation and expansion of the Landfill for
another 30 years.  (Id. ¶¶
50.)  The conditional use permit contains
numerous conditions of approval.  (Id.
¶¶ 50-55.)  But Petitioner makes clear
that it is not challenging this permit:
 
To be clear,
Petitioner is not challenging the underlying Conditional Use Permit that was
approved in 2017.  Rather, Petitioner
challenges the failure of the County to perform a subsequent or supplemental
Environmental Impact Report or other type of environmental review following
recent unforeseen chemical reactions and approval of the handling of hazardous
waste at the Landfill which is outside the scope of the [conditional use
permit].
 
(Petitioner’s
Memorandum of Points & Authorities in Opposition to Demurrers (“Oppo.”), at
4 fn. 1.)  
 
            Petitioner’s first cause of action
asserts a violation of CEQA.  Petitioner
alleges that “[t]he County has mandatory, nondiscretionary duties to comply
with the statutory and regulatory requirements of CEQA.”  (SAP ¶ 151.) 
Petitioner alleges that the County undertook emergency measures to respond
to “odors emanating from the Landfill became severe enough that residents from
the surrounding communities began making complaints regarding the air quality
to South Coast AQMD.”  (Id. ¶ 82.)  Petitioner seems to allege that these
measures, which include “an emergency ex parte permit variance”
triggered a new EIR under CEQA.  
 
            Petitioner’s second cause of action
asserts a violation of the anti-discrimination law under Government Code
section 11135.  Petitioner alleges that
“the County’s approval of permits for the Landfill’s hazardous waste results in
disproportionately high and adverse effects on the majority of the minority
low-income population.”  (SAP ¶
167.)  
 


 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
After the Board of Supervisors approved
the conditional use permit in 2017, three groups—Val Verde Civic Association,
Citizens for Chiquita Canyon Landfill Compliance, and Santa Clarita
Organization for Planning the Environment—filed a petition challenging the
issuance of the permit.  Specifically,
Petitioners challenged the adequacy of the CEQA analysis and seeking to have a
court set aside the approval of the permit. 
The trial court (Beckloff, J.) denied the writ.  The District Court of Appeal for the Second
District, Division Two, affirmed that decision. 
Petitioner was not a party to the prior action.  
 
On February 22, 2024, Petitioner filed its
original petition for writ of mandate, and on March 4, 2024, Petitioner filed
the first amended petition, which raised the same two causes of action.  Petitioner sought a writ of mandate directing
the County to void the conditional use permit, withdraw any and all approvals
of the Landfill’s continued operations, and stop all dumping and other
operations at the Landfill.  Petitioner
also sought an order requiring the County to enforce certain conditions in the
conditional use permit.  The court
sustained the demurrers.  The court found
that any challenge to the issuance of the conditional use permit in 2017 is
untimely.  The court also found that any
challenge to the manner in which the County enforces the permit falls outside
the scope of Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.  The court only has authority to require the
County to exercise a ministerial duty, which is a duty that must be performed
in a “prescribed manner” and without discretion, and the first amended petition
challenged the manner in which the County exercised its discretion.[1] 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD  
 
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. §
430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  “We assume the truth of the allegations in the
complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner
on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v
Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES 
 
            The county requested judicial notice
of the court’s order sustaining Respondents’ demurrers to the first amended
petition; the order appointing a court reporter at the prior hearing; and the
transcript of the prior hearing.  No
party opposes the request for judicial notice. 
The court grants the request for judicial notice under Evidence Code
section 452(d).  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        First Cause of Action – CEQA 
 
            The
court accepts Petitioner’s representation that it is “not challenging the
underlying Conditional Use Permit that was approved in 2017.”  (See Oppo. at 4 fn. 1.)  Such a challenge would be untimely under CEQA
based upon either the 30-day or 180-day statute of limitations.  (See Pub. Res. Code § 21167(a) &
(c).)  Rather, Petitioner seems to allege
that measures taken in response to “recent unforeseen chemical reactions”
required a new EIR under CEQA.  
 
CEQA applies to “discretionary projects proposed to be
carried out or approved by public agencies, including, … the issuance of
conditional use permits . . . .”  (Pub.
Res. Code 
§
21080(a).)  Under CEQA, a “project” is
defined as “an activity which may cause either a direct physical change in the
environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the
environment” and which is any of the following: 
 
(a) An activity directly
undertaken by any public agency.  
 
(b) An activity undertaken by
a person which is supported, in whole or in part, through contracts, grants,
subsidies, loans, or other forms of assistance from one or more public
agencies.  
 
(c) An activity that involves
the issuance to a person of a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other
entitlement for use by one or more public agencies. 
 
(Pub.
Res. Code §§ 21065; 14 Cal. Code Regs. § 15378.)  “If the
proposed activity is found not to be a project, the agency may proceed
without further regard to CEQA.”  (Union
of Medical Marijuana Patients, Inc. v. City of San Diego (2019) 7 Cal.5th
1171, 1185-86.)  In addition, there are various exemptions from CEQA.  (See 14 Cal.
Code Regs. § 15268.)  As examples, “[m]inisterial
projects are exempt from the requirements of CEQA.”  (14 Cal. Code Regs. § 15268; see Pub. Res.
Code § 21080(b)(1).)  Enforcement actions
by regulatory agencies are also generally exempt from CEQA.  (14 Cal. Code Regs. §§ 15300, 15321.)  No environmental review is required for a
project that is exempt from CEQA.  (McCorkle
Eastside Neighborhood Group v. City of St. Helena (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 80,
89.)
 
            
In
this case, Petitioner does not clearly allege that the County had a ministerial
duty to perform a new EIR under these circumstances.  “The limited and statutory nature of
governmental liability mandates that claims against public entities be
specifically pleaded.”  (Brenner v.
City of El Cajon (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 434, 439.)  Petitioner alleges that “[i]n and around
2024, the County started reviewing processing and approving permits for the
Landfill operators to store, treat, dispose of and otherwise handle hazardous waste
onsite.”  (SAP ¶ 12.)  Petitioner does not identify these permits,
when they were issued, when they expire, or what they authorized to occur.  Without such allegations, Petitioner has
failed to allege that the County approved a discretionary project that is
subject to CEQA.   
 


 
Further,
the specific allegations in the petition contradict Petitioner’s conclusory
allegation that the County approved discretionary permits for the Landfill to
dispose of or handle hazardous waste onsite. 
For example, Petitioner alleges in a heading that “the County approved
an emergency ex parte permit variance after detecting elevated levels of
dimethyl sulfide in Landfill gas.” (SAP p. 9:9-10.)  However, the subsequent factual allegations
state that the South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”)—not the
County—issued the 2023 variances.  (Id.
¶¶ 61-81.)  Other allegations discuss
how, in proceedings before the SCAQMD hearing board, the SCAQMD and Chiquita
entered a stipulated order of abatement to address leachate seepage at the Landfill.  (Id. ¶¶ 112-115.)  Notably, Petitioner does not allege that it or
any other person participated in administrative proceedings with respect to a
permit issued by the County, except the 2017 conditional use permit (for which
any legal challenge is time barred). 
(FAP ¶¶ 142-145.)  Exhaustion of
administrative remedies is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review,”
including under CEQA.  (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County
Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489; see also Pub. Res.
Code § 21177.)  If
the County had reviewed, processed, and approved discretionary permits related
to the Landfill in 2024, and had failed to comply with CEQA, presumably such
action would have been challenged in an administrative process by Petitioner or
another interested party.  Nor does
Petitioner cite any authority in support of its argument that the Couty is
required to perform a new EIR under CEQA based upon actions by the SCAQMD.  Even if so, Petitioner may have been required
to name SCAQMD as an indispensable party.[2]
 
            In opposition, Petitioner largely
concedes that it has not identified any specific discretionary permit issued by
the County, other than the 2017 conditional use permit, which is not at issue.  Petitioner states that it “does not have the
same access as Respondent to documents related to all of the specific permits
approved by the County” and that “Respondent has refused to cooperate with
Petitioner as to preparation of the record.” 
(Oppo. 5:19-20.)  These statements
are neither verified nor relevant. 
Petitioner must identify a factual basis for its CEQA claim, which
includes a discretionary project subject to CEQA, before it filed its
petition.  Petitioner cites no authority
that a CEQA case can proceed without identifying the government decision at
issue.  To the extent that Petitioner
contends that the County did not prepare a complete administrative record,
Petitioner could have raised that issue in a noticed motion to “correct” the
record.  (See
Mejia v. City of Los Angeles (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 322, 336, fn. 5.)  
 
            Petitioner argues that “CEQA does
not only apply to a certain type of permit but instead is triggered by the
County’s approval.”  (Oppo. 8:6-7.)  As noted, CEQA applies to “discretionary
projects proposed to be carried out or approved by public agencies, including,
… the issuance of conditional use permits ….” 
(Pub. Res. Code § 21080(a).)  The
SAP purports to challenge the County’s approval of permits “to store, treat and
otherwise handle hazardous waste.”  (SAP
¶ 158).  But it does not provide
sufficient detail to support a claim that permits were issued by the County or,
if they were, that the permits constitute discretionary, as opposed to
ministerial, projects within the meaning of CEQA.  
Moreover,
the court cannot determine from the SAP whether Petitioner challenges new
permits or whether Petitioner challenges actions taken pursuant to the terms
and conditions of the 2017 conditional use permit, which were already subject
to environmental review under CEQA.  For
example, many of the allegations in the second amended petition seem to
challenge the issuance of the 2017 conditional use permit or the County’s
exercise of its discretion.  Petitioners
allege that the County has violated CEQA because “CEQA prohibits approval of
projects with significant adverse environmental impacts if there are feasible
alternatives or mitigation measures that would reduce or eliminate those
impacts.”  (Id. ¶ 156.)  Finally, Petitioner alleges that the County
has failed to take action against the Landfill for various violations, and
there are “numerous alternatives for the disposal of Los Angeles County’s trash.”  (Id. ¶¶ 127-135.)        
  
            In sum, Petitioner does not allege
that the County issued a permit or that the County undertook a “discretionary
project” that would trigger a requirement to prepare a new EIR under CEQA.  Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to
the first cause of action.
 
            B.        Second
Cause of Action – Discrimination 
 
Government
Code section 11135(a) provides, in relevant part: 
 
No person in the
State of California shall, on the basis of sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, ethnic group
identification, age, mental disability, physical disability, medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, or sexual orientation, be
unlawfully denied full and equal access to the benefits of, or be unlawfully
subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity that is
conducted, operated, or administered by the state or by any state agency, is
funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance from the
state. 
 
(Gov.
Code § 11135(a), emphasis added.)  The SAP alleges that “[i]n direct contravention of Government Code § 11135
the County’s approval of permits for the Landfill’s handling of hazardous waste
results in disproportionately high and adverse effects on the majority of the
minority low-income population.”  (SAP
¶ 167.)  However, as discussed,
Petitioner does not allege that the County approved any specific permits
related to the Landfill since the 2017 conditional use permit.  Without
identification of a permit,
or some other County activity, the discrimination claim under Government Code
section 11135 fails because there is no “program or activity” that is
conducted, operated, administered, or funded by the state.  
 
In opposition, Petitioner argues:
 
Petitioner’s Government Code § 11135 discrimination claim alleges that
the County, as the LEA [“Local Enforcement Agency”], has a pattern and practice
of imposing fewer protective conditions for Val Verde, and is now refusing to
provide emergency services or state funding to a neighborhood with a vast
majority of people of color, causing the community to be disproportionately
exposed to air pollutants and highly hazardous substances that are known to
cause headaches, lightheadedness, dizzy spells, asthma, rashes, heart
palpitations, cancer, neurological diseases, and other negative health
conditions.
 
(Oppo. 10:3-9, citing SAP ¶ 166.)  Petitioner does not accurately paraphrase the
SAP, which focuses on the County’s “approval” of the mishandling of hazardous
waste through unspecified permits.  (See
SAP ¶¶ 166-167.)  Regardless, the
opposition makes clear that Petitioner is not challenging a “program or
activity,” but a failure to implement a program or provide services that
Petitioner believes should be available. 
Section 11135 does not provide a right of action to challenge the
failure to implement a program or provide services.  Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to
the second cause of action.
 
            C.        Leave to Amend 
 
A demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there
is no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  In assessing whether leave
to amend should be granted, the burden is on the complainant to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. 
(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348-349; McDonald v. Superior
Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 297, 303.)
 
            Petitioner
has had three opportunities to state viable causes of action.  At the prior hearing, the court granted leave
to amend so that Petitioner could “make it clear exactly what [Petitioner] is
challenging.”  (RJN Exh. 3 at
22-23.)  Petitioner failed to add
allegations clarifying the governmental decision or action of the County that
Petitioner is challenging under CEQA and Government Code section 11135.  
 
In its opposition brief, Petitioner has not made
a sufficient offer of proof of additional facts that could be added to the
petition to state a cause of action under CEQA or Government Code section
11135.  (See Oppo. 6-12.)  Health and Safety Code section 25200.21
authorizes the Department of Toxic Substances Control to adopt regulations
governing the issuance of hazardous waste facilities permits when a hazardous
waste permit is being issued.  Contrary
to Petitioner’s suggestion, the statute does not apply to the County.  (See Oppo. 7:20-26, citing section
25200.21.)  Petitioner also does not
identify any “permits for drilling, excavating, grading, and building at the
site”; provide information that any such permits are discretionary, as opposed
to ministerial; or show that any such permits were not approved as part of the
2017 conditional use permit and already subject to environmental review.  (Oppo. 8:16-19, 11:18-27.)  Petitioner’s remaining references to a
Multi-Agency Critical Action Team and statements of Supervisor Katherine Barger
lack sufficient detail to allege that the County has approved a
discretionary project subject to CEQA, or that the County has responsibilities
as the “lead agency” under CEQA.  (Oppo.
11; see 14 Cal. Code Regs. § 15367 [defining “lead agency”] and § 15051
[criteria for identifying the lead agency].) 

 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court does not believe Petitioner can state viable
causes of action.  At heart, Petitioner
challenges the County’s issuance of the 2017 conditional use permit authorizing
the continued operation and expansion of the Landfill, as well as the County’s
exercise of discretion in terms of how it addresses issues at the Landfill.  The former is untimely and has already been resolved
by the District Court of Appeal.  The
latter falls outside the scope of the court’s authority under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.  Therefore, the
court denies leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
court sustains the demurrers to the first and second causes of action.    
 
            2.         The
court denies leave to amend.  
 
            3.         The
court orders the parties to meet-and-confer and lodge a proposed judgment
forthwith. 
 
            4.         Counsel
for the real party in interest shall provide notice and file proof of service
with the court.  
 
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated:  September 25, 2024                                       ________________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch 
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


