 Case Number:  23LBCV01737    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Carl L. Johnson filed this action against Defendants, Steven
Brereton and Lenay Cobo for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants have locked him
out of the parties’ legal commercial cannabis business.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on
9/18/23.  Defendants filed answers to the
complaint on 12/06/23 and 12/27/23.
 
2.    
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
a.    
Standard on Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings  
CCP §438 states, in relevant part:
“(b)(1) A party may move for judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion
provided for in this section may only be made on one of the following
grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a
plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or
causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.  (B) If the moving party is a defendant, that
either of the following conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
defendant.”  
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  (Smiley v. Citibank (S.D.), N.A. (1995) 11
Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation omitted)). 
“[T]he trial court generally confines itself to the complaint and
accepts as true all material facts alleged therein.  As appropriate, however, it may extend its
consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.” (Id. (citations
omitted)).
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
CCP §439 requires a party moving
for judgment on the pleadings to meet and confer prior to filing the
motion.  Defense Counsel declares the
parties went back and forth with emails attempting to schedule a meet and
confer session, but the session never actually took place because Plaintiff
ultimately failed to respond to communication. 
  
 
c.     Plaintiff’s
Prior Request for a Continuance
The Court was
originally scheduled to hear this motion on 5/02/24.  On 4/19/24, Plaintiff filed a request for a
continuance of the motion, indicating he had suffered from personal challenges
and persistent technical issues.  
 
The Court granted
the request and continued the hearing to 6/04/24, but admonished Plaintiff that
he must meet and confer meaningfully, and that the MJP appeared to be
well-taken, so he needed to substantively address the moving arguments if he
wanted to avoid dismissal of his claims. 
 
 
d.    
Continued Hearing
i.             
Opposition
To date, Plaintiff
has not filed substantive opposition to the motion.  
 
ii.            
Law Governing Res
Judicata
California's res
judicata doctrine is based upon the primary right theory which provides that a
“cause of action” is comprised of a “primary right” of the plaintiff, a
corresponding ‘primary duty’ of the defendant, and a wrongful act by the
defendant constituting a breach of that duty. 
The violation of a single primary right gives rise to a single cause of
action.  Even where there are multiple
legal theories upon which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise
to only one claim for relief.  An adverse
judgment in a first lawsuit will be a bar even though the second suit is based
on a different theory or seeks a different remedy.  The prior final judgment on the merits not
only settles issues that were not actually litigated but also every issue that
might have been raised and litigated in the first action.  It also precludes litigation of the same
cause of action on a different legal theory or for different relief.  (Lincoln Property Co., N.C., Inc. v. The
Travelers Indemnity Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 905, 912-913.)
 
The doctrine of
res judicata precludes the relitigation of certain matters which have been
resolved in a prior proceeding under certain circumstances. (Brinton v. Bankers
Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 550, 556.)  Its purpose is “to preserve the integrity of
the judicial system, promote judicial economy, and protect litigants from
harassment by vexatious litigation.” (Vandenberg v. Superior Court (1999) 21
Cal.4th 815, 829; see also Bernhard v. Bank of America (1942) 19 Cal.2d 807,
811.)  The doctrine has two aspects.  It applies to both a previously litigated
cause of action, referred to as claim preclusion, and to an issue necessarily
decided in a prior action, referred to as issue preclusion.  (Vandenberg v. Superior Court, supra, 21
Cal.4th at p. 828; Teitelbaum Furs, Inc. v. Dominion Ins. Co., Ltd. (1962) 58
Cal.2d 601, 604.)  The prerequisite
elements for applying the doctrine to either an entire cause of action or one
or more issues are the same: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action
is identical to a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior
proceeding resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party
against whom the doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a
party to the prior proceeding. 
(Teitelbaum Furs, Inc. v. Dominion Ins. Co., Ltd., supra, 58 Cal.2d 601,
604; Bernhard v. Bank of America, supra, 19 Cal.2d at p. 813.)
 
iii.           
Analysis
The moving papers
adequately show that the complaint is barred by the doctrine of res
judicata.  A review of Defendants’
request for judicial notice, which is granted, shows that Plaintiff filed
substantially the same case in Orange County, and the case was dismissed
without prejudice.  In reviewing
Plaintiff’s complaint in the instant case and the prior complaint in the Orange
County case, the Court cannot ascertain any meaningful differences.  
 
The motion for
judgment on the pleadings is granted. 
Because this is a purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied.  
 
Defendants are
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   