 Case Number:  24LBCV00641    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Sharereh Moazed filed this action against Defendants, Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC and Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc. for damages arising out of alleged
violations of lemon law.    
 
2.    
Motion
to Transfer Venue
a.     Parties’ Positions
Fletcher Jones moves to transfer venue to Orange County Superior Court,
contending all defendants reside in OC and all acts giving rise to this
litigation occurred in OC.  Defendant
seeks an order requiring Plaintiff to pay fees and costs expended in connection
with the motion.
 
On 5/21/24, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the motion,
indicating he does not oppose transfer of the action to Orange County Superior
Court.  Plaintiff argues payment of fees
and costs is discretionary, and the Court should not impose any fees for filing
a reply, as no reply is necessary.  
 
b.    
Transfer
Fees
CCP §399(a) obligates the plaintiff
to pay the fees if the motion is granted on the ground that the plaintiff filed
the action in the wrong court.  Thus,
while not addressed in the parties’ papers, Plaintiff must pay all fees
associated with the transfer.  
 
Plaintiff is responsible for paying
the costs and fees of transferring the action to Orange County within thirty
days after service of notice of the transfer order. If Plaintiff fails to do so
within five days after service of notice of the order, any other interested
party, whether named in the complaint or not, may pay such costs and fees in
order to expedite the transfer.  If the
fees and costs are not paid within thirty days, the action is subject to
dismissal.   CCP § 399(a); see Stasz v.
Eisenberg (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1037. 

 
c.     Sanctions
CCP §396b(b) provides, “In its
discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of
reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the
motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover
his or her costs of action. In determining whether that order for expenses and
fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an
offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2)
whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts
and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have
known. As between the party and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees
shall be the personal liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party.
Sanctions shall not be imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice
contained in a party's papers, or on the court's own noticed motion, and after
opportunity to be heard.”
 
Defense Counsel emailed Plaintiff’s
attorney, on 4/15/24, to inform him by 4/22/24 as to whether he would agree to
transfer or not.  Defense Counsel
declares that, as of the date of the filing of the motion, 4/25/24, Plaintiff
did not respond to the email.  An award
of fees and costs is therefore appropriate. 

 
Plaintiff argues that, because he
does not oppose the motion, no reply papers are necessary, and therefore the
Court should not award the amount in ¶8(c) of the attorney declaration in
support of the motion.  ¶8(c) seeks
recovery of “estimated time for preparation and appearance at hearing.”  It does not seek fees for drafting a
reply.  That said, because this tentative
ruling is in favor of Defendant, the Court agrees that no appearance is
necessary, as the parties should submit on the tentative ruling and achieve
their desired outcome.  
 
Defense Counsel fully supports the
request for all remaining fees and costs, in the total amount of $1410, in his
declaration.  Plaintiff’s attorney is
ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through its attorney of record,
in the amount of $1410, within twenty days. 

 
3.     Final
Note
This case is scheduled for an OSC re: proof of service and a CMC on
6/17/24 and 9/03/24, respectively.  The
Court vacates each of the above hearings. 
The Court sets an OSC re: dismissal in light of transfer for 7/16/24 at
8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  If there is
no opposition to the OSC, the Court will dismiss the case in light of the
transfer at that time.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   