 Case Number:  23LBCV00815    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Fred Howard Newkirk
filed this action against Defendants, Henry Van Gieson and Memorial Care
Medical Group on 5/04/23.  His complaint
includes causes of action for medical malpractice, concealment, and breach of
fiduciary duty.  Plaintiff alleges he was
treated by Defendants for varicose veins, and developed life-threatening blood
clots as a result of Defendants’ care and treatment.  
 
Plaintiff filed a doe amendment
naming Memorial Cardiology Medical Group, Inc. as Doe 1 on 7/31/23.  Plaintiff dismissed Memorial Care Medical
Group as a defendant on 10/02/23.  
 
2.     Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
a.    
Legal
Standard
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he emailed Plaintiff’s attorney and requested
an in-person or telephonic meet and confer, but Plaintiff’s attorney failed to
respond.  Defendant therefore satisfied
the meet and confer requirement.  
 
c.     Analysis
On 1/11/24, the Court heard and
granted Co-Defendant, Henry Van Gieson’s demurrer to the second and third
causes of action without leave to amend. 
The Court also granted Co-Defendant’s motion to strike without leave to
amend.  The Court noted that Plaintiff
had not met and conferred and had not opposed the demurrer or motion to
strike.  The Court’s ruling included the
following admonishment:
The Court notes that Co-Defendant, Memorial Cardiology Medical Group,
Inc. has a demurrer and motion to strike scheduled for 6/04/24.  The Court asks Plaintiff to meaningfully
participate in meet and confer discussions prior to the hearing and to dismiss
the challenged claims if he does not intend to oppose the demurrer.  The Court notes that this hearing could have
been avoided if Plaintiff had complied with his meet and confer
obligations.  
 
Despite the Court’s admonishment,
Plaintiff neither participated in the attempts by Defendant to meet and confer,
dismissed the relevant causes of action and claims for damages, nor opposed the
demurrer and motion to strike.  The
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained and the motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages, prayer for attorneys’ fees, and all
related allegations is granted.  Leave to
amend is denied.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   