 Case Number:  23STCV08230    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 
21LBCV00329

Plaintiffs, Robert Lord and
Broadband Service Group, Inc. filed 21LBCV00329 against Defendants, Christopher
M. Sandu, Dennis Phan, and Legacy Communications for breach of contract, fraud,
and related claims.  Plaintiffs filed the
complaint on 6/16/21.  The crux of the
complaint is that Defendants agree to purchase vehicles and equipment from
Plaintiffs, and made a series of representations about their ability to repay
the loans, but Defendants were neither willing nor able to make the payments
when they made the representations.    
 
On 8/31/21, Plaintiffs filed proof
of service on each of the defendants. 
The POS documents showed service on Sandu and Phan by personal service,
and on Legacy by substitute service.  On
11/12/21, Plaintiffs dismissed Legacy from the action.  On 11/22/21, the Clerk, at Plaintiffs’
request, entered Phan’s and Sandu’s defaults. 
On 4/12/22, after a default prove-up hearing, the Court entered judgment
against Defendants; on 4/14/22, the Court entered an amended judgment.  The amended judgment obligates Defendants,
and each of them, to pay Plaintiffs, and each of them, the principal amount of
$954,247.91, plus interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs, for a total judgment of
$1,100,988.40.
 
On 12/06/22, the Court heard and
granted Defendant, Phan’s motion to vacate the default and default judgment
entered against him.  At this time, there
is an outstanding default judgment against Santu; the Court recently held a
bench trial as to Phan, and the Court found in favor of Plaintiff and against
Phan at the bench trial.  
 

23STCV08230

On 4/13/23, Plaintiff, Broadband
Service Group, Inc. filed 23STCV08230 against Defendants, Legacy
Communications, LLC, Legacy Communications*, Cable Brothers, Inc., L&G
Cable Construction Company, Inc., CSP Fiber Services, Panoramavision Inc.*,
Performance Auto, Christopher Sandu, Dennis Phan, Eddie Alcaraz Nava, Cesar
Solorzano, William Young, Sofina Preap, Tony Bushala, Daniel Agullar Becerril,
Tyrol M. Mitchell*, Firstline Capital*, Capitalplus Construction Services*,
LLC, State of California Department of Motor Vehicles, and Steve Gordon in his
capacity as Director of State of California DMV.  
 
Each of the starred defendants
above has been dismissed from the action. 
Sandu and Bushala are in default. 

 
The crux of 23STCV08230 is that the
defendants conspired to hide assets so Plaintiff could not collect on the
judgment against Sandu and/or any potential future judgment against Phan in
21LBCV00329.  The complaint includes
causes of action for:
Civil Conspiracy to Defraud by
Concealing Assets
Aiding and Abetting the Unlawfully
(sic) Concealment of Assets from Creditors and/or Fraudulent Transfer of Assets
Conversion
Recovery and Possession of Personal
Property
Fraud
Preliminary Injunction
Declaratory Relief
 
23STCV08230 was originally filed in
Stanley Mosk Courthouse, but was deemed related to 21LBCV00329 and reassigned
to Department S27 of the Long Beach Courthouse. 

 

Demurrer


Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares he met and
conferred multiple times with Plaintiff’s attorney prior to filing the
demurrer.  
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendants, CSP Fiber Services,
Dennis Phan, and Sofina Preap demur to the complaint filed against them,
contending (a) there is another action pending between the parties arising out
of the same nucleus of operative facts, (b) the cause of action for conspiracy
to defraud is not adequately pled, (c) the cause of action for fraud is not
adequately pled, and (d) the seventh cause of action for declaratory relief is
not adequately pled.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer,
arguing the complaint is proper both because CSP Fiber and Preap are not
parties to the other action, and because the crux of this action is
different.  Plaintiff argues each
individual cause of action is adequately pled.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend the
complaints contain numerous overlapping allegations, and contend this complaint
cannot possibly be ripe while the other action remains pending.  They contend the challenged causes of action
are not sufficiently pled, and the demurrer should be sustained without leave
to amend.  
 

Prior Ruling

The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this demurrer on 3/21/24.  The
Court ruled on the demurrer as follows:
The threshold issue is whether this
case is subject to demurrer pursuant to CCP §430.10(c), which provides for
demurrer when “there is another action pending between the same parties on the
same cause of action.”  Pursuant to Plant
Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 788, a demurrer
made pursuant to §430.10(c) requires absolute identity of parties, causes of
action, and remedies sought.  
 
Plaintiff contends the demurrer
must be overruled both because the parties are different and also because the
crux of the claims is different. 
Plaintiff contends, at pages 5-6 of the opposition to the demurrer, that
the crux of the first action is the defendants’ fraud in executing the contract
and breach of the contract, whereas the crux of this action is the defendants’
conspiracy to hide assets and place assets out of reach.  
 
Notably, however, at ¶30 of the
2021 complaint, Plaintiff alleges, “On March 21, 2021, Plaintiff Lord traveled
to California with the intention of repossessing the unpaid for property
pursuant to the terms of the Vehicle and Equipment Purchase Agreement.”  Plaintiff then details, at ¶¶31-37 of the
original complaint, the subsequent acts that occurred, including him learning
that Defendants no longer possessed the subject vehicles and equipment.  Plaintiffs’ original complaint includes a
cause of action for conversion, wherein Plaintiffs allege Defendants converted
the subject vehicles and equipment for their own use.  
 
While the two actions do not have
identical parties, and while the second action expands the issues to be ruled
upon (to include conspiracy theories), the Court is very concerned about the
potential res judicata or collateral estoppel effect of the first lawsuit.  The parties are scheduled to try the first
action to a jury on 4/22/24, only a month after the hearing on this
motion.  If the jury were to conclude
that Phan did NOT convert the assets that form the basis of the instant
lawsuit, then it would be difficult to see how this action, which is for
conspiracy to convert those assets, could go forward.
Plant Insulation Co., supra, at
788, explains that, when a complaint is subject to demurrer under §430.20(c),
the trial court must sustain the demurrer, but instead of dismissing the
complaint or sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend, the trial court
abates the action pending termination of the first action.  
 
Because trial in the prior action
is scheduled to go forward in one month and one day, the Court finds abating
this action pending the outcome of the trial is appropriate.  The trial in the prior action could
potentially serve to delineate the scope of the issues in this case.  
 
The Court is sustaining the
demurrer pursuant to CCP §430.20(c).  The
Court declines to rule on the remaining issues at this time.  This action is abated pending trial in
21LBCV00329.  
 
The Court notes that another
defendant has a demurrer pending for hearing on 4/30/24.  The hearing on this demurrer and the 4/30/24
demurrer are continued to Tuesday, 6/04/24, which is six weeks after trial in
21LBCV00329 is set to commence.  The
Court is hopeful that the issues in this case will be streamlined in light of
the disposition of the prior action.  
 
If Plaintiff believes amendment of
the complaint is necessary in light of the disposition of the prior action, the
Court asks Plaintiff to amend the complaint at least two weeks (ten court days)
prior to the continued hearing date.  If
Plaintiff believes amendment is not necessary, Plaintiff must substantively
oppose both demurrers, and must include analysis concerning the outcome of the
prior action, per statute.  Reply papers
are also due per statute.
 

Supplemental Opposition

On 5/20/24, Plaintiff filed
supplemental opposition to the demurrer. 
Plaintiff explains that it has now prevailed in the prior action against
Phan, which renders this action ripe for prosecution.  Defendants have not filed supplemental reply
papers, and therefore the Court finds the case ripe for resolution.  The demurrer on the res judicata ground is
overruled as the parties and theories are not identical.  The Court will consider the remaining issues
raised by way of the demurrer.
 

Specificity

Defendants demur to the first cause
of action (conspiracy to defraud) and fifth cause of action (fraud), contending
they are not pled with the requisite specificity.  Defendants argue Plaintiff has not pled who
made the subject misrepresentations, when they were made, by what means, etc.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, explains
that this is not a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation, but rather a claim
for fraudulent transfer, which is codified at Civil Code §3439.12.  Defendants do not meaningfully address this
argument in their reply papers.  A claim
for fraudulent transfer is not based on any misrepresentation, and therefore
the demurrer is overruled.
 

Declaratory Relief

Defendants demur to the seventh
cause of action for declaratory relief, contending the cause of action purports
to seek a mandatory injunction, which cannot be achieved by way of a claim for
declaratory relief.  
 
As an initial note, Plaintiff
erroneously states, in opposition to the demurrer, that Defendants did not
challenge the seventh cause of action.  
 
Defendants rely on Sunset Scavenger
Corp. v. Oddou (1936) 11 Cal.App.2d 92 to support their position.  The Court has read and considered Sunset, and
finds it does not support Defendants’ position. 
Defendants did not provide a pinpoint citation to this 1936 case, but in
reading the case in full, it actually supports Plaintiff’s cause of action and
not Defendants’ opposition to the cause of action.  The full text of the relevant portion of the
case held:
This contention
is based upon a misconception of the nature and purpose of a declaratory
judgment. Its purpose is to declare rights rather than to execute them. (Aetna
Life Ins. Co. v. Richmond, 107 Conn. 117 [139 Atl. 702].) Such a proceeding can
only be invoked to declare rights and not to determine or try issues. ( Loomis
Fruit Growers' Assn. v. California F. Exch., 128 Cal. App. 265, 281 [ 16 Pac.
(2d) 1040].) It would have been error for the trial court to have attempted to
give to its determination any other or further effect than that of a
declaratory judgment. *98 ( City of San Diego v. Cuyamaca Water Co., 209 Cal.
105, 151 [ 287 Pac. 475].) Conceding that an injunction ancillary to a
declaratory judgment might be proper under some circumstances (James v. Hall,
88 Cal. App. 528 [264 Pac. 516]), still its issuance should be governed by
those considerations which generally control the granting of injunctions. The
complaint is utterly devoid of any allegation of those equitable grounds
essential to an invocation of this summary, peculiar and extraordinary remedy.
(14 Cal. Jur. 261.) The evidence suffers the same deficiency.  
 
Thus, the case holds that
injunctive relief CAN be sought by way of a claim for declaratory relief, so
long as the request for injunctive relief is properly pled.  Defendants do not meaningfully challenge the
claim for injunctive relief, and therefore the demurrer is overruled.
 

Note re:
     Co-Defendant’s Demurrer

The Court notes that LG Cable
Construction Company, Inc. also has a demurrer scheduled for hearing
today.  The parties executed a
stipulation to continue the hearing on the demurrer in light of their
settlement of the claims between them. 
The stipulation indicates the parties will file a motion for
determination of good faith settlement.  
 
To date, no motion or application
for good faith settlement determination has been filed.  The parties indicate they will file the
papers within seven days after the hearing on the demurrer is continued.  They seek an order continuing the hearing on
the demurrer to a date not earlier than 10/30/24.  The case is set for trial on 8/12/24.  
 
The Court will discuss a timeline
for the good faith settlement, demurrer, and trial date with the parties at the
time of the hearing.  
 

OSC re: Failure to
     Serve

Plaintiff is reminded that there is
an OSC re: failure to serve all named defendants on calendar concurrently with
the hearing on the demurrer.  The Court
asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the
demurrer and the OSC.