 Case Number:  23LBCV01017    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Diana Winn, Frank
Avilla, and Karen Avilla, both as the successors-in-interest to Irene Olmeda
and also on their own behalf, filed this action against Defendant, Palmcrest
Grand Home Assisted Living, LLC for elder abuse and related claims.  
 
2.     4/25/24
Hearing on Motion to Compel Arbitration
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 4/25/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling continuing the hearing on the
motion.  The Court ultimately adopted its
tentative ruling as its final ruling. 
The Court stated the following re: its decision that the hearing should
be continued:
The Court is inclined to continue
the hearing both because (a) the use of Condee as precedent for the contention
that an arbitration agreement need not be authenticated is questionable, and
(b) the Declaration of Gomez appears to be sufficient to meet the burden to
authenticate the agreement, but the declaration was submitted for the first
time in reply, and Plaintiffs should have the opportunity to respond to the
declaration.
 
3.     Continued
Hearing
a.    
Supplemental Opposition
On 5/21/24, Plaintiffs filed their
supplemental opposition to the motion. 
Their supplemental opposition is twofold.  First, they contend they have attempted to
depose Gomez, but Defendant has not permitted the deposition to go
forward.  Second, they contend they have
shown waiver, such that the motion must be denied.
 
b.    
Deposition of Gomez
Plaintiffs’ primary contention is
that they need to depose Gomez to determine the authenticity of her statements
purporting to authenticate the arbitration agreement.  Defendant, in reply, contends all discovery
in the case is stayed in light of the filing of the petition to compel
arbitration, and Plaintiff has no right to depose Gomez or, indeed, to conduct
any discovery at all until the motion is heard and ruled on.  Defendant relies on Twentieth Century Fox
Film Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 188, 192, which
was decided in a different context, but did hold that all discovery is stayed
upon the filing of a motion to stay and motion to compel arbitration.  Plaintiffs have cited nothing to the
contrary.  Notably, Plaintiffs also do
not meaningfully detail what they believe they would learn from deposing Gomez
that would contravene her declaration and the attached exhibits.  
 
c.     Waiver
The Court considered the waiver
issue in connection with its prior ruling continuing the hearing on the
motion.  The Court concluded:
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant on the waiver issue. 
Plaintiffs may only address this issue in their supplemental brief if
they have evidence to dispute Defense Counsel’s assertion that their express
agreement was that there would be no waiver. 
If Plaintiffs address this issue in their supplemental brief, they must
be prepared to make a showing of the Sobremente elements, with the
understanding that waiver involves much more than mere delay.  
 
Plaintiffs failed, in their
supplemental brief, to negate the parties’ express agreement that there was no
waiver.  They continue to argue for
waiver, but they fail to meet the very high bar detailed in the original ruling.  Notably, they focus on the fact that they
propounded discovery, contending this means the litigation machinery was
invoked, but they do not show that Defendant propounded discovery, which would
be more relevant to the inquiry.  
 
d.     Conclusion
The motion to compel arbitration is
granted.  The action is stayed pending
the outcome of arbitration.
 
4.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on this motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and the CMC.