 Case Number:  21STCV37277    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV37277




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Attendance at Deposition by Plaintiff Ingrid Finicle
(2)
  Motion to Compel Attendance at Deposition by Plaintiff Alfred Profeet




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Justin Vonhecht  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Justin Vonhecht (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiffs Ingrid Finicle and
Alfred Profeet’s (“Plaintiffs”) deposition in two separate motions. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Anthony Bell, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “On November 30, 2023, I emailed Plaintiff's counsel to inquire
about the status of the case. I indicated that I had no discovery responses or
depositions from Plaintiff's side and cautioned that motions to compel may be
forthcoming. I never received any response to this email.” (Bell Decl. ¶ 9,
Exh. F.) Therefore, Defendant made a good faith effort to meet and confer.
 
DISCUSSION
 
On November 2, 2023, Defendant served deposition notices on
Plaintiffs, scheduling depositions for November 17, 2023. (Bell Decl. ¶ 5, Exh.
C.) On November 10, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel
stating he was unavailable on November 17, 2023, and asked for availability in
mid-December. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) Defendant agreed to reschedule if
Plaintiffs served overdue discovery responses by November 16, 2023. When
discovery responses were not served by that time, Defendant proceeded with the
noticed depositions. (Id. ¶ 7.)
 
 Plaintiff failed to serve an
objection and did not appear at the depositions. (Bell Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. E.)
Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition to this motion. 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiffs did not timely object and failed to
appear at their November 17, 2023 depositions, the motions to compel are
granted. 
 
Defendant requests $2,260.65 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
Ingrid Finicle and her counsel of record, representing a $210 hourly rate, and
$580.65 in costs for the non-appearance. (Bell Decl. ¶ 10, 14, Exh. G.)
Defendant requests $2,112.60 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Alfred
Profeet and his counsel of record, representing a $210 hourly rate, and $432.60
in costs for the non-appearance.  The
Court finds that sanctions are warranted, but the amount requested is excessive
given the type of motions and the fact no oppositions were filed. Therefore,
the Court grants monetary sanctions against Ingrid Finicle and counsel in the
amount of $895.65 (1.5 hours of attorney time plus the deposition costs).  The Court grants monetary sanctions against
Alfred Profeet and counsel in the amount of $747.60 (1.5 hours of attorney time
plus the deposition costs).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiffs Ingrid Finicle and Alfred Profeet’s depositions are
GRANTED. Plaintiffs Ingrid Finicle and Alfred Profeet shall appear within 15 days’
notice of this order for their depositions.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $895.65 against Plaintiff Ingrid Finicle and her counsel of
record, jointly and severally. The Court grants Defendant’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $747.60 against Plaintiff Alfred
Profeet and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. Said monetary
sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 