 Case Number:  22STCV21387    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21387




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, Set Two
(2)
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Evelyn Arias  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Gail Rose Kelch   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 30, 2022, Plaintiff Evelyn Arias (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Gail Rose Kelch (“Defendant”) for negligence
related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Request for Production, Set
Two and Special Interrogatories, Set Two, on Defendant. (Hakhamzadeh Decl. ¶ 8,
Exh. B.) Defendant served responses on February 2, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9, Exh.
C.) The parties met and conferred and participated in an informal discovery
conference (“IDC”) on April 17, 2024.   
 
            On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motions to compel further responses to Request for Production, Set
Two, numbers 19 to 23, and Special Interrogatories, Set Two numbers 32 to 72 on
the basis that the responses are evasive, and the objections are without merit.[1]
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and counsel.
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On April 17, 2024, the parties appeared for a scheduled IDC pursuant
to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. The issues were deemed
unresolved. Therefore, the IDC requirement has been met. (Min. Order, 4/17/24.)

 
However, Plaintiff does not describe a meet and confer effort
following Defendant serving further responses on May 13, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.
Compel Further Request for Production
 
            A. Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320(a) provides that
“[i]f a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280
thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in
accordance with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling compliance.”¿ 
¿¿ 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).)  
 
            B. Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff moves to compel further numbers 19 to 23 on the basis
that they are evasive, without merit and insufficient. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues this motion is moot because after the IDC, on May
13, 2024, she provided further/supplemental responses. (Figueroa Decl. ¶ 9,
Exh. C.) Defendant asserts that after serving these responses, Plaintiff has
refused to specify which issues are being withdrawn from this motion, and which
are outstanding. (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff asserts the supplemental responses provided by Defendant are
still non-compliant. 
 
Numbers 19 to 23 request documents regarding the following: to
support Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff lied to her doctors about her
injuries; that Plaintiff was malingering her injuries; regarding responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set Two; to support Defendant’s contention that
Plaintiff’s medical bills were not reasonable; and to support Defendant’s
contention that Plaintiff’s medical treatment was not medically necessary. 
 
Defendant responded initially to each Request with the following:
“Objection. This request violates the applicable Code of Civil Procedure §
2034.010 et seq. pertaining to the timing of expert witness discovery. This
request violates Code of Civil Procedure §2031.010(c) by failing to describe
specific documents or reasonably particularize a category of documents.
Further, it is vague, ambiguous, and overbroad, and requests production of
documents protected by the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product
doctrine as phrased.”
 
Defendant’s supplemental responses contain the following objections: 
 
“Objection. Calls for speculation. This request violates the
applicable Code of Civil Procedure § 2034.010 et seq. pertaining to the timing
of expert witness discovery. This request violates Code of Civil Procedure
§2031.010(c) by failing to describe specific documents or reasonably
particularize a category of documents. Further, the request is vague,
ambiguous, and overbroad, and requests production of documents protected by the
attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine as phrased.” 
 
Further Responses 19 and 20 also state: “Without waiving said
objections, not applicable as this is not a contention that has been raised by
responding party, to date. Furthermore, responding party was not present when
plaintiff discussed her injuries to her doctors.” 
 
Further
Responses 21 to 23 also state: “Without waiving said objections, responding
party identifies all of propounding party’s medical records attributed to the
incident, all filed pleadings, propounding party’s responses to written
discovery obtained to date, and propounding party’s deposition testimony, all
of which are in the possession of and/or equally available to propounding party
and, thus, will not be produced.”
 
In opposition, Defendant contends that the definitions of “Document”,
“Incident”, and “Concerning” and “Reflecting” are overbroad. (Opp., 5.) 
 
First, upon reviewing the definitions in the Request for Production,
the Court does not find them to be overbroad. Second, Defendant has not
provided a privilege log or set forth argument to support the privilege and
work product objections. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230, “[a] representation of
inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the
name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.”
 
Here, the further responses to Requests 19 and 20 do not comply with
section 2031.230 since they do not state that a reasonable inquiry was made.
However, the further responses to 21 through 23 state that all responsive
documents are already in the possession of Plaintiff, and therefore are sufficient.
 
As a result, the motion to compel further responses to Requests 19 and
20 are granted. The remainder are denied. 

 
Both parties seek monetary sanctions against each other. However,
seeing as the motion is granted in part and denied in part, the Court declines
to award sanctions. 
 
II. Compel Further Special Interrogatories
 
            A.
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
“If the
responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully
to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and
good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(c).)
 
B.
Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two,
numbers 32 to 72.
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues this motion is moot because after the IDC, she
provided further/supplemental responses on May 13, 2024. (Opp., 4; Figueroa
Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. C.) Defendant asserts that after serving these responses,
Plaintiff has refused to specify which issues are being withdrawn from this
motion, and which are outstanding. (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff asserts the supplemental responses provided by Defendant are
still non-compliant. 
 
Numbers 32 to 72 asks
the following: whether Defendant contends Plaintiff was not truthful to her
doctors; whether Defendant contends Plaintiff was malingering her injuries;
whether Plaintiff’s medical bills were not reasonable; whether Plaintiff’s
medical treatment was not medically necessary; whether Plaintiff’s medical
bills from The Regenerative Sports and Spine Institute were reasonable; whether
Plaintiff’s treatment from The Regenerative Sports and Spine Institute was
medically necessary; whether Plaintiff’s medical bills from Tova Surgical
Center were reasonable; whether Plaintiff’s treatment from Tova Surgical Center
was not medically necessary; whether Plaintiff’s medical bills from her Left
Total Hip Arthroplasty were not reasonable; whether Plaintiff’s medical
treatment for her Left Total Hip Arthroplasty was not medically necessary. Each
of these interrogatories also seek, if answered in the affirmative, facts in
support, names and addresses of persons with knowledge, and identifying documents
in support of the contentions. 
 
In all the initial
responses, Defendant asserted the following objections that the requests were
vague, overly broad, sought information protected by attorney client privilege
and work product doctrines, and violated the Code of Civil Procedure pertaining
to expert witness discovery.  
 
In initial responses
to 32 to 39, Defendant then stated: “Responding party has no independent
knowledge regarding plaintiff’s alleged injuries or her representations to her
doctors.”
 
In initial responses
to 40 to 43, 48 to 51, 56 to 59, and 65 to 68, Defendant also asserted:
“Responding party has no independent knowledge regarding plaintiff’s alleged
damages.”
 
In initial responses 44
to 47, 52 to 55, 60 to 64, and 69 to 72, Defendant stated: “Responding
party has no independent knowledge regarding plaintiff’s alleged injuries or
treatment.”
 
The supplemental
responses provided by Defendant continue to assert that Defendant either lacks
independent knowledge to respond or is not presently making the
contentions.  
 
Because Defendant has
asserted that she lacks independent knowledge to respond, the responses are sufficient.
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.220(c).) Though Plaintiff argues Defendant has
sufficient information to supply further responses, Plaintiff fails to show how
that information is not equally available her. (See Pl. Exh A, Defense Medical
Examination Report.) Therefore, the motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two is denied. 
 
Both
parties seek monetary sanctions against each other. Defendant seeks $380 in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel. (Opp., 7.) Since
Defendant has successfully opposed this motion, the Court finds this amount to
be reasonable and grants the request.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production, Set Two, numbers 19 and 20. The remainder
are denied. Defendant shall serve further responses within 30 days.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two. 
 
The Court further grants monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $380.00. Said
monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of
this order. 
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


