 Case Number:  23STCV00797    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
¿ 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/12/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV00797 ARLET TALAMANTES vs
DAVID ALEXANDER MELENDEZ
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant David Alexander Melendez
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff served
his second set of requests for production on Defendant. Defendant served his
responses on February 21, 2024. The deadline to file a motion to compel further
responses was April 9, 2024, and Defendant granted no extensions for filing
this motion. Plaintiff filed the current motion on May 13, 2024.
A crucial issue between the parties
is whether the motion is untimely. Under Code of Civil Procedure, §
2031.310(c), if a motion is not filed within 45 days of service of the
responses, the moving party waives any rights to compel further responses. Plaintiff
does not dispute the foregoing timeline but presents two arguments.
First, Plaintiff argues that according
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.080(c)(2), the timeframe for
filing any motion to compel or other discovery motion is suspended from the
date a party requests an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) via email. CCP
2016.080(c)(2) states that if an IDC is granted or ordered, the court MAY
toll the deadline for filing a discovery motion. However, the Eighth
Amended Standing Order for the Personal Injury Hub Court clarifies that
reserving or scheduling an IDC does not extend the deadline to file a Motion to
Compel Further Discovery Responses. (Eighth Amended Standing Order for
Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Court at pg. 8.) If parties do not
stipulate to extend the deadline(s) to file a Motion to Compel Further
Discovery Responses, the moving/propounding party may file the motion to avoid
it being deemed untimely. (Id.)
Second, Plaintiff argues that the 45
days deadline only starts to run when the responses are verified. Unverified
responses are "tantamount to no responses at all," and a motion to
compel responses may be filed where responses are not verified and contain no
objections. (Appleton v. Superior Court, (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632.) The
court reviewed the discovery requests and responses in question and noted that
the responses are indeed unverified. However, the court also observed that
Defendant’s responses only contain objections, and under CCP § 2031.250(a), a
party is not required to sign the response under oath if it contains only
objections. Therefore, verifications are not required for the responses at
issue.
Currently, there is no case
directly addressing whether the 45-day clock begins to run when responses
consist solely of objections and are unverified. The closest relevant case is Golf
& Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court, 84 Cal.App.5th 127, 136,
which dealt with discovery responses containing both objections and substantive
answers. The court deferred the question of whether there would be an “absurd
result,” as the trial court put it, if there is no time limit on a motion to
compel involving objections.
This Court opines that it would
indeed be absurd if there were no time limit on a motion to compel that
involves only objections, which do not require any verifications. The statute
added the word “verified” to responses before starting the clock on the 45 days
because it was felt many in the litigation bar engaged in a “common practice”
of serving timely unverified responses to discovery with the promise of
providing verifications for the same as soon as possible. (Id.) This common
practice led to confusion as to when the clock began to run; did it run when
the unverified responses were served or only after the verifications were
provided? (Id.) However, when responses consist of only objections, it
is complete by itsself and no further verifications are required. The problem
envisioned by the legislature is inapplicable.
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further to be untimely, and it is therefore denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling,¿the
party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number.¿The
body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.¿You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a tentative ruling,
the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.
 