 Case Number:  21STCV11488    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 6/12/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV11488 FREDY MELGAR vs
CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED. 
 
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
On
3/25/21, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case against City of
Los Angeles. The current trial date is 6/13/24. The parties engaged in
mediation on May 8, 2024, and determined that additional discovery is necessary
to position themselves to resolve this matter. The mediator, John Raleigh, has
kept the mediation open, and the parties plan to attempt resolution after the
necessary additional discovery is completed. The parties stipulated to continue
the trial to October 2024 to conduct limited discovery of Plaintiff's and
Defendant’s expert and the PMQ of Defendant City of Los Angeles. In light of the
parties’ stipulation and the request for a relatively short 4-month
continuance, the Court grants the motion. The new trial date is set for October __, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to October__, 2024, at 10:00
a.m. 
However, considering
the age of the case, no further continuances will be granted. Furthermore, the
motion did not address the various factors to reopen discovery under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050(b). Thus, the Court will permit limited fact
discovery: only the deposition of Plaintiff and Defendant’s expert and the PMQ
of Defendant City of Los Angeles will be allowed.  Expert discovery shall follow the new trial
date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 