 Case Number:  23STCV21848    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




immigrant rights defense
   council, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
laura e. vaca

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV21848




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion for dismissal 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Laura Vaca and Agencia
Privada de Inmigracion, Inc.                    
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
(1)  
Motion
to Strike First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
for Dismissal
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants
Laura Vaca and Agencia Privada de Inmigracion, Inc.’s request for judicial
notice as to (1) the complaint, summons, and first amended complaint filed in
this action, (2) the certified copies of the Articles of Organizations and
Statements of Information of Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC, attached as
exhibits B, C, and D to the motion to dismiss, and (3) the Delaware Department
of State Division of Corporations page attached as exhibit E to the motion to
dismiss.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (d),
(c).)
The court denies all other
requests for judicial notice set forth in defendants Laura Vaca and Agencia
Privada de Inmigracion, Inc.’s May 8, 2024 request for judicial notice because the
other matters of which they request the court take judicial notice are not
relevant to a material issue presented by the pending motions.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant
to a material issue”].) 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants Laura Vaca and
Agencia Privada de Inmigracion, Inc. (“Defendants”) move the court for an order
striking (1) the First Amended Complaint filed in this action by plaintiff
Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC (“Plaintiff”) on February 2, 2024, and
(2) the Complaint filed in this action by Plaintiff on September 11, 2023. 
The court finds that
Defendants have not met their burden to show that the First Amended Complaint[1] is “not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) 
First, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that the proof of service attached to the First
Amended Complaint is defective or invalid because the proof of service (1) sets
forth the title of the document served and filed, and the name and business
address of the person making the service, and shows that the person is employed
in the county where service occurred and that the person is over 18 years of
age, and (2) was electronically signed by Sebastian M. Medvei under penalty of
perjury.  (FAC p. 11, Proof of Service;
Code Civ. Proc., § 1013b, subd. (a)(1); Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.257, subds.
(a), (b).)
Second, the court finds that
Plaintiff filed and served its First Amended Complaint within the time permitted
by Code of Civil Procedure section 472, such that Plaintiff was not required to
obtain leave of court to amend its complaint by noticed motion that complied
with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324 because (1) Defendants filed a
demurrer directed to the original complaint, which was set for hearing on
February 16, 2024, and (2) Plaintiff filed and served its First Amended
Complaint on February 2, 2024, i.e., nine court days before the hearing on the
demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 472,
subd. (a) [“A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the court . .
. after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or
motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later
than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike”],
1005, subd. (b).) 
Third, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that Plaintiff is an unregistered foreign limited
liability company that has forfeited the right to file this action in
California pursuant to Corporations Code section 17708.07.  (Corp. Code, § 17708.07, subd. (a) [“A foreign
limited liability company transacting intrastate business in this state shall
not maintain an action or proceeding in this state unless it has a certificate
of registration to transact intrastate business in this state”].)
Defendants have not shown that
Plaintiff is “[a] foreign limited liability company transacting business in
this state” because (1) Defendants, despite requesting that the court take
judicial notice of 46 matters, did not cite to any specific documents in
support of this argument, and (2) upon the court’s review of the papers filed
in connection with the pending motions, the court has noted that Defendants
filed (and the court has taken judicial notice of) the “Articles of
Organization [¶] of a Limited Liability Company (LLC)” filed by Plaintiff with
the California Secretary of State, which establishes that Plaintiff was formed
in California and therefore is not a foreign limited liability company.  (Mot. to Strike, pp. 9:5-10:26; Mot. to
Dismiss, RJN Exs B, D.)  To the extent
that Defendants contend that Plaintiff is actually “IRDC Holdings, LLC,” which
appears to have been incorporated in Delaware, the court disagrees.  (Mot. to Dismiss, RJN Ex. E [printout of page
from “Department of State: Division of Corporations” showing state of
incorporation for IRDC Holdings, LLC to be Delaware].)  This action was filed by plaintiff “Immigrant
Rights Defense Council, LLC[.]”  (FAC ¶
1.)  Thus, whether IRDC Holdings, LLC is
or is not a foreign limited liability company transacting intrastate business
in California is immaterial to Plaintiff’s standing to bring this action.[2]
Fourth, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that Plaintiff cannot maintain this action as an
entity with outstanding taxes owed in California because (1) Defendants have
based this argument on their contention that Plaintiff is a “foreign entity” as
set forth above, but (2) the court has already found that Defendants have not
shown that Plaintiff is a foreign limited liability company.  (Mot. to Strike, p. 12:20-21, 12:22-23 [arguing
that IRDC Holdings (i.e., not Plaintiff) owes taxes to California].) 
Thus, for the reasons set
forth above, the court denies Defendants’ motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
MOTION TO DISMISS
Defendants move the court for
an order dismissing Plaintiff’s action with prejudice.  Defendants move for this relief on the ground
that Plaintiff is an unregistered foreign limited liability company and
therefore may not maintain this action pursuant to Corporations Code section
17708.07.
            The court finds that Defendants have
not met their burden to show that Plaintiff is an unregistered foreign limited
liability company.  As set forth above, the
entity that is the plaintiff in this action is “Immigrant Rights Defense
Council, LLC[.]”  (FAC ¶ 1.)  The exhibits attached to Defendants’ motion
establish that Plaintiff is a California limited liability company.  (Mot. to Dismiss, Exs. B [Articles of
Organization of Limited Liability Company for Plaintiff in California], D
[California Secretary of State identifying Plaintiff as a limited liability
company “Formed in: CALIFORNIA”].)  Moreover,
the court finds that Defendants have not shown—even if the court were to accept
their contention that IRDC Holdings is the alter ego of Plaintiff—that,
pursuant to the alter ego doctrine, the court should consider Plaintiff (1) to
be a foreign limited liability company because IRDC Holdings may be, or (2) to
be a business entity that has not paid taxes to California because IRDC
Holdings may have been required to pay taxes to California but may not have. [3]  (Mot., pp. 8:34, 10:35-11:8, 13:7-12 [arguing
that “IRDC Holdings has been withholding paying taxes for nine years”].)
            Thus, the court finds that
Defendants have not met their burden to show that the court should dismiss
Plaintiff’s action and therefore denies Defendants’ motion. 
            Finally, the court is concerned
about the tone and content of a number of remarks made by Defendants and their
counsel in the papers filed in connection with the motion to strike and the
motion to dismiss, which include personal attacks, disparaging remarks, taunts,
and insults against Plaintiff’s counsel, and references to Plaintiff’s counsel
by his first name.  
(E.g.,
Mot. to Strike, Vaca Decl., ¶ 3; Mot. to Dismiss, pp. 5:8-10, 14:32-15:12.)  The court finds that such remarks are
distracting from the merits of the issues and arguments presented, are not
persuasive advocacy, and have no place in written or oral submissions,
presentations, or communications made to the court or to other parties or
counsel in this litigation.  As the court
states in section 1 of its “Courtroom Information for Department 53” posted on
the court’s website, “[t]he court places a very high value on civility,
courtesy, and professionalism in the practice of law and the judicial
process.  The court expects all attorneys and parties to treat each other,
witnesses, jurors, court personnel, the court, and others with the highest
level of civility, courtesy, and professionalism, both inside and outside the
courtroom.”  The court expects all
parties, attorneys, and other participants in this litigation to govern their
conduct accordingly.
ORDER
            The court denies defendants Laura
Vaca and Agencia Privada de Inmigracion, Inc.’s motion to strike first amended
complaint.
            The court denies defendants Laura
Vaca and Agencia Privada de Inmigracion, Inc.’s motion for dismissal.
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Immigrant
Rights Defense Council, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


