  Case Number:  22STCV31022    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alexis quirarte garcia

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kia america, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV31022




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition
  attendance of person most qualified and request for production of documents
  at deposition
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Alexis Quirarte
Garcia
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant Kia America, Inc. 
Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of Person Most Qualified and
Request for Production of Documents at Deposition
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Alexis Quirarte Garcia (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order (1) compelling defendant Kia America, Inc. (“Defendant”) (i) to produce
its person most qualified for deposition, and (ii) to produce, at the
deposition of its person most qualified, the documents responsive to the
document demands set forth in her notice of deposition, and (2) awarding
sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $2,310.
The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce its
person(s) most qualified to appear for and testify on its behalf at a deposition
to be taken by Plaintiff as to category numbers 1-9 and 11-24.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce its
person(s) most qualified to appear for and testify on its behalf at a deposition
to be taken by Plaintiff as to category numbers 10 and 25, because those categories
do not describe the matters on which examination is requested with reasonable
particularity, as required.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.230.)
The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce, at
the deposition of its person most qualified, documents that are responsive to
requests for production of documents, numbers 1-4, 6-13, and 16-17.
The court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce, at
the deposition of its person most qualified, documents that are responsive to
requests for production of documents 5 and 14, because those requests are
overbroad since they call for the production of documents or information that are
not relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
The court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce, at
the deposition of its person most qualified, documents that are responsive to
requests for production of documents, number 15, because that request calls for
the production of documents and information that are protected by the right of
privacy of Defendant’s employees. 
            In light of the mixed results of the
court’s ruling on this motion, the court finds that the circumstances presented
make the imposition of sanctions unjust and therefore denies Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
The court denies Defendant’s request, made in its opposition papers, that
the court continue trial. 
The court denies Defendant’s request that the court order Plaintiff to
pay the attorney’s fees incurred by Defendant to oppose this motion. 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Alexis
Quirarte Garcia’s motion to compel deposition attendance of person most
qualified and requests for production of documents as follows. 
            The court orders defendant Kia
America, Inc. (1) to designate and produce for deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to the
matters set forth in matters for examination numbers 1-9 and
11-24 in plaintiff Alexis Quirarte Garcia’s notice of deposition, on a date to
be agreed to by counsel for the parties no later than July 8, 2024, and (2) to
produce at the deposition of its person most qualified the documents responsive
to the requests for production of documents, numbers 1-4, 6-13, and 16-17 in
plaintiff Alexis Quirarte Garcia’s notice of deposition.
            The court finds good cause to extend
the discovery cutoff date and therefore orders that the discovery cutoff date
is extended to July 8, 2024, for the limited purpose of allowing plaintiff
Alexis Quirarte Garcia to take the deposition of defendant Kia America, Inc.’s
person most qualified. 
            The court orders plaintiff Alexis
Quirarte Garcia to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court