  Case Number:  22STCV16061    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  61 21326 VENTURA, LLC vs SUMMITRIDGE REALTY, LLCTENTATIVEPlaintiff 21326 Ventura, LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. Defendant to provide notice.DISCUSSIONA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiffs moving for summary judgment may meet their initial burden by “prov[ing] each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).)Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) The defendant may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)Plaintiff 21326 Ventura, LLC (Plaintiff) seeks summary adjudication of its first cause of action for partition, based on the contention that there is no dispute as to Plaintiff’s and Defendant Summitridge Realty, LLC’s (Defendant) ownership shares in the real property at issue, and on the grounds that partition by sale would reduce prejudice to the parties and the property. (Motion at pp. 2–3.)In a supplemental memorandum, Defendant argues that the motion should be denied, because Plaintiff did not seek an interlocutory judgment of partition in the initial motion, which is framed as a motion for summary adjudication, and as such cannot obtain summary adjudication. (Supp. Memorandum at pp. 2–3.) Defendant is correct, insofar as summary adjudication cannot be granted on the partition claim. But the fact that summary adjudication cannot be awarded does not forestall an order of interlocutory partition, which it seems Plaintiff has set forth a prima facie showing of entitlement.Plaintiff’s motion is denied since it seeks summary adjudication in Plaintiff’s favor on the first cause of action for partition. The evidence and grounds proffered by Plaintiff would justify only an interlocutory partition under Code of Civil Procedure § 872.720, not full adjudication of the first cause of action.Defendant has shown that the sale is proceeding, and will likely be concluded by March 18, 2025, Trial is set for April 8, 2025, with a final status conference set for April 1, 2025. It would appear, no further action is needed by the court.