 Case Number:  23STCV22235    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  37 Ruling No. 1: Demurrer by Dr. Tahiri:  HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, March 14, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22235
CASE NAME:                        Qiang Yang v. Youssef Tahiri, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Youssef
Tahiri
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Qiang Yang aka
Michelle Yang
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        27 February 2024
REPLY:                                  3
March 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Tahiri’s demurrer is overruled as
to the first cause of action for promissory fraud and sustained with leave to
amend to the fifth cause of action for common law misappropriation, seventh
cause of action for libel, and eighth cause of action for libel per se.
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend. OSC re: Amended Complaint set for
__. The Case Management Conference is continued to ___. Defendant Tahiri to
give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On September 14, 2023, Qiang Yang aka
Michelle Yang (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Youssef Tahiri
(“Tahiri”), John Reinsch (“Reinisch”), and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges
eight causes of action: (1) promissory fraud, (2) promissory estoppel, (3)
negligent misrepresentation, (4) quantum meruit, (5) common law
misappropriation, (6) violation of California Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200,
(7) libel, and (8) libel per se. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant Tahiri
filed a Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against Plaintiff Michelle Yang, David Barel,
Medical Boulevard LLC, Medical Boulevard, Inc., Y&S Enterprise Inc.
(“Y&S”), and Moses 1 to 20. The Cross-Complaint alleges six causes of
action: (1) intentional interference with economic
relations, (2) negligent interference with economic relations, (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (4) negligence, (5) defamation per quod, and
(6) defamation per se. 
 
On December 1, 2023, Defendant Youssef
Tahiri (“Tahiri”) filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes
the motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
               A.        Summary of Allegations in Complaint
 
Defendants are plastic and reconstructive surgeons
specializing in performing microtia surgery on children. (Compl. ¶ 8.)
Defendants formerly worked as surgeons at Cedars-Sinai Health System
(“Cedars-Sinai”). (Compl. ¶ 10.) “In 2017, Defendants were practicing plastic
and reconstructive surgery, including microtia surgery, through Cedars-Sinai’s
Department of Plastic Surgery, located in Beverly Hills, California.” (Compl. ¶
13.) Plaintiff met Defendant Dr. Tahiri when he was a student enrolled in
Plaintiff’s Chinese language class at Indiana University. (Compl. ¶ 11.) In
2017, Dr. Tahiri referred Plaintiff for a position as program coordinator for
the Department of Plastic Surgery at Cedars-Sinai. (Compl. ¶ 14, Ex. A.)
 
As the program coordinator, Plaintiff’s job duties included
“answering and triaging calls; scheduling appointments, surgeries, and
ancillary services; verifying patients’ insurance; managing patient
information; and processing and tracking all incoming and outgoing referrals.”
(Compl. ¶ 17.) While Plaintiff and Defendants worked for Cedars-Sinai,
Defendants asked Plaintiff to use her marketing and communication skills to
market their practice to potential patients in China despite this not being
part of her job duties. (Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff maintains that travel
logistics, serving as a translator for Defendants, checking-in conferences
attended in China, and creating PowerPoint presentations, were services that
fell outside the scope of her employment with Cedars-Sinai. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21.)

 
Specifically, Dr. Tahiri told Plaintiff that the most
important thing was to get Chinese patients and for Plaintiff to seek out
potential patients to set up consultation meetings so that they would book
appointments for microtia surgery in the United States. (Compl. ¶ 21, Ex. B.)
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants relied on Plaintiff’s marketing skills to
develop a relationship with families whose children needed surgery. (Compl. ¶
22.) Consequently, Plaintiff paid and used the “WeChat” platform between 2017
to 2022 to create a group chat for families with children who needed microtia
surgery/reconstructive ear surgery. 
Plaintiff used the platform to cultivate a relationship with the families
to market Defendants’ surgical services, coordinate travel, visa, and accommodations,
and schedule surgery in the United States. (Compl. ¶ 23.) Plaintiff asserts she
spent her own funds on third-party vendors to create some of the platforms,
such as WeChat and Weibo, and spent time increasing her visibility in the
WeChat groups. (Compl. ¶ 24.) 
 
As a result of Plaintiff’s marketing efforts, Dr. Tahiri consulted
with more then 100 new Chinese patients and performed microtia surgeries on at
least 24 of those patients.  (Compl. ¶ 25.)
Plaintiff asserts that Dr. Tahiri led Plaintiff to believe that he would leave
Cedars-Sinai and open his own surgical center with Plaintiff, and although the
representations were oral, they were referenced in a text stating: “Michelle!
Let’s do this. Let[']s do this thing together … I am serious … We can both
benefit from it instead of others … I am tired of being a slave … [stacks of
cash emojis]” and “We will get our surgery center. I promise you.” And “I will
work on a surgery center for us soon.” And “surgery center will happen.”  (Compl. ¶ 28, Ex. C, D.) 


In August of 2022, Dr. Tahiri and Dr. Reinisch left
Cedars-Sinai to join a surgical center called K&B. (Compl. ¶ 29.) Dr.
Tahiri instructed Plaintiff to make a list of all patients that she had
scheduled for surgery after his last day at Cedar-Sinai, which was October 14,
2022. (Compl. ¶ 29, Ex. D.) Plaintiff asserts that Dr. Tahiri assured Plaintiff
that he intended to keep his promise of starting a business with Plaintiff.  He asked Plaintiff to find a clinic space
close to K&B where he could secretly work on his own Chinese patients in
solo practice while working with at K&B with Dr. Reinisch. (Compl. ¶ 30.)
This resulted in Plaintiff signing a lease through the medical services
organization entity, Medical Boulevard, for a medical space next to K&B’s
clinic. (Compl. ¶ 31, Ex. F.) 
 
Plaintiff was laid off from her position at Cedars-Sinai in
October 2022, but Dr. Tahiri continued to insist that Plaintiff continue her
work of marketing to Chinese patients on his behalf. (Compl. ¶¶ 33, 34.) Even
after Plaintiff’s employment with Cedars-Sinai ended, up to December 7, 2022,
Plaintiff continued to market Dr. Tahiri’s services and he accepted the
consultations with new Chinese patients brought to him by Plaintiff and
continued to agree to perform surgeries. (Compl.  ¶ 34.)
 
On or about December 19, 2022, Dr. Tahiri stopped responding
to Plaintiff and he and Dr. Reinisch refused to perform surgeries already
scheduled on microtia patients obtained via Plaintiff’s marketing services,
despite Defendants’ office sending emails to some patients assuring them that
surgery would proceed as planned. (Compl. ¶ 35.) Dr. Tahiri lied by telling
these patients that his medical practice had no record of any scheduled
surgery. (Compl. ¶¶ 36, 38, Ex. G.)
 
Plaintiff believes that to grow their clientele without
Plaintiff’s assistance, Defendants’ agent, Alic Ting (“Ting”) influenced
Plaintiff’s connection within her WeChat group to leave Plaintiff’s WeChat
group and join a WeChat group controlled by Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 39.) Defendants
did this by portraying Plaintiff as a liar. (Compl. ¶ 40.) Consequently, due to
Ms. Ting’s “libelous statements” Plaintiff was threatened within her WeChat
group and has been unable to continue marketing to Chinese microtia patients.
(Compl. ¶ 41.) Due to Plaintiff’s marketing efforts, Defendants reaped hundreds
of thousands of dollars by improperly acquiring and using Plaintiff’s WeChat
group member list that she spent years cultivating. (Compl. ¶ 42.) 
 
Plaintiff
filed this action on September 14, 2023, alleging eight causes of action.  Defendant Tahiri demurs to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for promissory fraud, fifth cause of action for common law
misappropriation, seventh cause of action for libel, and eighth cause of action
for libel per se. 
 
               B.        First Cause of Action - Promissory Fraud
 
“A cause of action for promissory fraud requires the
plaintiff to allege that the promissor did not intend to perform at the time
the promise was made, that the promise was intended to deceive and induce
reliance, that it did induce reliance, and that this reliance resulted in
damages.” (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1411; see also Civ. Code, § 1710.) “To maintain an action for deceit
based on a false promise, one must specifically allege and prove, among other
things, that the promisor did not intend to perform at the time he or she made
the promise and that it was intended to deceive or induce the promisee to do or
not do a particular thing.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.) 
 
“‘Promissory fraud’ is a subspecies of
the action for fraud and deceit.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Id. at p. 645.) “‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.’ ” (Id. at p. 645.) 
 
Defendant Tahiri asserts that Plaintiff’s
claim for promissory fraud fails because the promise is ambiguous such that the
court cannot determine the scope of the promised duty. “To be enforceable, a
promise must be definite enough that a court can determine the scope of the
duty and the limits of performance must be sufficiently defined to provide a
rational basis for the assessment of damages.” (Ladas v. California State Auto.
Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 770.) 
 
The Complaint alleges that “Dr. Tahiri
led Ms. Yang to believe that he would compensate her for her services through a
business partnership with him” and that Dr. Tahiri “planned on leaving
Cedars-Sinai and that he would open a surgical center with her.” (Compl. ¶ 28.)
“Between 2017 and 2022, Ms. Yang provided approximately 12,000 hours of
marketing services on behalf of Defendants and at their request.” (Compl. ¶
27.) Plaintiff’s marketing services “were not part of her duties at
Cedars-Sinai.” (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff asserts that absent Dr. Tahiri’s
promises and representations she would not have provided marketing services
because the services fell outside the scope of her employment with
Cedars-Sinai.” (Compl. ¶ 45.) She performed such services “in order to build
the foundation of her business with Dr. Tahiri.” (Compl. ¶ 45.) This resulted
in Plaintiff entering a 3-year lease for medical space and incurring damages no
less than $1.5 million due to Plaintiff’s reliance on Dr. Tahiri’s fraudulent
representations (Compl. ¶¶ 48, 49.) 
 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s first
cause of action is sufficiently pled. Whether Plaintiff will be able to prove
that Dr. Tahiri did not intend to perform at the time he made the
representations or that Plaintiff is entitled to the damages requested is
irrelevant when ruling on a demurrer. (See Stevens v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause
of action is overruled. 
 
C.        Fifth
Cause of Action – Common Law Misappropriation
 
“The elements of a claim for
misappropriation under California law consist of the following: (a) the
plaintiff invested substantial time, skill or money in developing its property;
(b) the defendant appropriated and used the plaintiff's property at little or
no cost to the defendant; (c) the defendant's appropriation and use of the
plaintiff's property was without the authorization or consent of the plaintiff;
and (d) the plaintiff can establish that it has been injured by the defendant's
conduct.” (United States Golf Assn. v. Arroyo Software Corp.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 607, 618 (United States Golf Assn).)
 
Defendant
Tahiri asserts that Plaintiff’s misappropriation claim is improperly pled. The
court agrees because Plaintiff alleges in a conclusory manner that Ms. Ting
acting as Defendants’ agent “influenced” the Plaintiff’s connections causing
them to leave the group and join a WeChat controlled by Defendants, without
specifying facts as to how such “influence” constituted misappropriation.
(Compl. ¶ 39.)  “[C]onclusionary
allegations without facts to support them are ambiguous and may be
disregarded.” (Interior Systems, Inc. v. Del E. Webb Corp.
(1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312, 316.) Furthermore, while the Complaint alleges that
Plaintiff paid to create the WeChat group and spent her own funds on
third-party vendors, such as WeChat and Weibo, Plaintiff fails to allege that
she invested “significant” money developing the “WeChat” group. Moreover, even
if Plaintiff invested substantial time in creating the WeChat group, Plaintiff fails
to explain what economic benefit she derived from the list. 
 
Based
on the above, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave
to amend.  
 
            D.        Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action – Libel and Libel Per Se
 
“Libel
is a false and unprivileged publication by writing, printing¿…¿which¿[in
relevant part]¿exposes any person to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy,
…¿or which has a tendency to injure him in his occupation.”¿ (Civ. Code, §
45.)¿ Libel is per se if the statement is defamatory on its face. (See
Civ. Code, § 45a.) “A statement can also be libelous per se if it
contains a charge by implication from the language employed by the speaker and
a listener could understand the defamatory meaning without the necessity of
knowing extrinsic explanatory matter.” (McGarry v. University of San
Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112.)
 
The
Complaint alleges on information and belief that “Dr. Tahiri made written
false, defamatory, and unprivileged remarks about Ms. Yang to Ms. Yang’s
connections that stated or implied that Ms. Yang is a liar. Rather than inform
Ms. Yang’s connections of his own refusal to perform their anticipated
surgeries, Dr. Tahiri instead lied and told Ms. Yang’s connections that his
medical practice had no record of any such surgery. However, Dr. Tahiri was on
notice of the upcoming surgeries via the requested list of all patients that
Ms. Yang scheduled for him after October 14, 2022.” (Compl. ¶ 88, Ex. E.) Upon
information and belief “Dr. Tahiri, through his Agent, also stated or implied
to Ms. Yang’s connections that they should not conduct business with Ms. Yang,
because she is a liar.” (Compl. ¶ 90.) 
 
At
the pleading stage Plaintiff is not required to prove that the libelous
statements are false, but the court agrees that Plaintiff’s libel cause of
action is not properly pled. The Plaintiff fails to allege where and when the
written false or defamatory remark by Dr. Tahiri was made. While Plaintiff’s
opposition asserts that the false statements were made in the WeChat group, the
Complaint and the seventh cause of action fail to identify where and when the
alleged defamatory statements were made. (See Schick v. Lerner (1987)
193 Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327 [Facts not alleged in the complaint are presumed not
to exist].) Without such information, Dr. Tahiri lacks sufficient facts to
respond to Plaintiff’s allegation, prepare a defense or determine if qualified
privilege applies. 
 
Plaintiff
also fails to state what statement(s) Ms. Ting made as Defendants’ agent that
led Plaintiff’s connections to believe that Plaintiff was a liar. “The initial
determination as to whether a publication is libelous on its face, or libelous
per se, is one of law.” (Selleck v. Globe International,
Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1123, 1132.) Without specification as to
what representation Ms. Ting made to Plaintiff’s business connections, the
court cannot determine if the statement is libelous, an opinion, or an opinion
that is actionable because it implies a false assertion of fact. (See Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1354, 1370.) 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
The libel per se claim is also pled on
information and belief and asserts “Dr. Tahiri, through his Agent, made written
false, defamatory, and unprivileged remarks about Ms. Yang to Ms. Yang’s
connections that Ms. Yang is a liar and that they should not conduct business
with her.” (Compl. ¶ 95.) “In the alternative, Ms. Yang alleges that Dr.
Tahiri’s publications regarding Ms. Yang are libelous on their face. The
Agent’s comments, made on behalf of Dr. Tahiri, clearly expose Ms. Yang to
hatred, contempt, ridicule, and obloquy and are calculated to injure Ms. Yang’s
reputation and occupation. The above-described publications are further
libelous on their face because the statements charge Ms. Yang with lying and
dishonesty.” (Compl. ¶ 96.) 
 
“The initial determination as to whether
a publication is libelous on its face, or libelous per se, is one of law.” (Selleck v. Globe International, Inc. (1985) 166
Cal.App.3d 1123, 1132.) The court cannot determine if the statements made by
Dr. Tahiri or his agent were libel per se without facts asserting what the
publication was. “An essential element of libel is that the publication in
question must contain a false statement of fact; the determination of whether
the allegedly defamatory statement constitutes fact or opinion is a question of
law.” (Id. at p. 1133.) “A complaint must set forth the facts with
sufficient precision to put the defendant on notice about what the plaintiff is
complaining and what remedies are being sought.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action fails to provide
facts showing what libelous statement was made by Defendants, and by what means
it was published. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Tahiri’s demurrer is
overruled as to the first cause of action for promissory fraud and 
sustained
with leave to amend to the fifth cause of action for common law
misappropriation, 
seventh
cause of action for libel, and eighth cause of action for libel per se. Plaintiff
is given 30 
days
leave to amend. OSC re: Amended Complaint set for __. The Case Management 
Conference
is continued to ___. Defendant Tahiri to give notice.


