 Case Number:  24AHCV00102    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SANDRA MALDONADO ROSALES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FCA US,
   LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00102
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR
   MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   14, 2024



 
Plaintiff Sandra Maldonado Rosales
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order deeming admitted the matters within Request or
Admissions, Set One, which were served on defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant”) on
February 9, 2024. 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall grant a motion to deem admitted
requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests
for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion,
a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Here, Defendant’s responses were due on
March 15, 2024. Defendant served unverified responses on June 27, 2024, and
provided a verification on July 24, 2024. Plaintiff argues that the motion is
not moot and should be granted because the responses are not substantially
compliant. The responses contain objections and Defendant waived those
objections by failing to serve timely responses. However, Plaintiff cites to no
case law providing that including objections, which have been waived, renders a
response noncompliant. This is bolstered by the fact that a party who believes
that a response contains unmeritorious objections may bring a motion for an
order compelling a further response, as well as the fact that a party who
serves untimely responses may file a motion for relief from their waiver of
objections due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2033.280; 2033.290.) 
The Court notes that, in its opposition
brief, Defendant requests that it be relieved from its waiver of objections on
the grounds that the failure to timely respond was due to a “substantial
increase in emails” related to the “unlimited growth of volume in
[Song-Beverly] matters.” (Opp., Brezovec Decl., ¶ 4.) This request is improper
because relief from the waiver of objections due to mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect may only be provided “on motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (a).) Furthermore, even if the Court construed such request as
properly made, it would be denied. Neglect is excusable only if a reasonably
prudent person in similar circumstances might have made the same error. (Huh
v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1423, as modified (Jan. 16, 2008)
[citations omitted].) “Conduct falling below the professional standard of care,
such as failure to timely object to or properly advance an argument, is not
therefore excusable.” (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674,
682.) “To hold otherwise would be to eliminate the express statutory
requirement of excusability and effectively eviscerate the concept of attorney
malpractice.” (Ibid.) To constitute grounds for relief, an exceptional
workload generally must be accompanied by some factor outside the attorney's
control that makes the situation unmanageable, such as a mistake “caused by a
glitch in office machinery or an error by clerical staff.” (Id. at p.
1424.) Therefore, the proffered declaration, without more, is insufficient for
this Court to grant relief from its waiver of objections. 
In conclusion, because verified
responses have been served, the motion is MOOT. Mandatory sanctions are imposed
against Defendant and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $375, payable within 20 days of the date of this Order, consisting of
one hour at Plaintiff’s counsel’s customary hourly rate. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 14th
day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.