 Case Number:  24NNCV00270    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MITSUBISHI HC CAPITAL AMERICA, INC. fka HITACHI
  CAPITAL AMERICA CORP., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BORLAR,
   INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV00270
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   14, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Mitsubishi HC Capital
America, Inc. fka Hitachi Capital America Corp. (“Plaintiff”) seeks a default
judgment against defendant Borlar Inc. (“Defendant”) of $480,924.06, arising
from the breach of six motor vehicle security agreements. Plaintiff has
recovered one of the six vehicles which were the subject of those security
agreements and applied the proceeds from its sale of that vehicle to the
balance owed by Defendant on that agreement. (McGarry Declaration, p. 6.) In Item
8 of its proposed judgment, Plaintiff requests immediate possession of the remaining
5 vehicles, but does not specify that the proceeds from the sale of those
vehicles will be used as a credit to offset the money judgment owed by
Defendant. Plaintiff must submit a proposed order with this additional
provision in Item 8 or explain why Plaintiff is entitled to personal possession
of the vehicles in addition to the money owed under the security agreements. 
The hearing is continued to August
_______, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. Any
revised or additional papers must be filed no later than 5 court days before
the date of the hearing. 
 
Dated
this 14th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 