 Case Number:  23AHCV02812    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
C.R.
   LEGAL, SR., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02812
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOOYA ASSASEPA’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
  14, 2024




 


)


 



 
On December 5, 2023, plaintiff County
of Los Angeles (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for quiet title, slander of
title, and declaratory relief relating to property located at 2261 N. Lincoln
Avenue in Altadena, California (the “Property”). The Complaint named C.R.
Legal, Sr., House of Prayer International, and all persons unknown, claiming
any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interests in the property
adverse to Plaintiff’s title, or any cloud on Plaintiff’s title to the Property
(“Unknown Persons”). 
On April 3, 2024, Mooya Assasepa
(“Defendant”) filed a motion to quash service of summons. The Court denied the
motion on May 2, 2024. On May 22, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for
reconsideration. 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 states: When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part … any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. 
First, Defendant’s motion is untimely. The
County served Notice of the Court’s Order on Defendant by mail on May 3, 2024.
Service was deemed complete on May 8, 2024, and this motion should have been
filed within 10 days after that. However, since Defendant did not file this
motion until May 22, 2024, it is untimely. 
Second, even if the motion were timely
filed, there is no affidavit identifying the “new or different facts,
circumstances, or law” which would provide the basis for reconsideration. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
Dated
this 14th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 