 Case Number:  23TRCV04042    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka            Wednesday, July 17, 2024
Department M      Calendar No. 8   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Credit
Corp. Solutions, Inc. v. Mark Ferrera, et al. 
23TRCV04042
1.     
Credit Corp.
Solutions, Inc.’s Special Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike        
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Credit Corp. Solutions, Inc.’s Special
Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike is denied. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on December 4, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
Defendant owes a balance due from a loan provided to Defendant by Plaintiff’s
assignor. 
 
            On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed
a Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant alleges the following facts. Cross-Defendant maintains and practices a policy of
attempting to collect on student loans without providing the mandated
information, and without possessing and providing the mandated documentation.
Cross-Defendant employs unfair and deceptive practices in their loan collection
process. Cross-Complainant alleges the following causes of action for
violations of: 1. California Fair Debt Buying Practices Act; 2. Rosenthal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act; 3. Private Student Loan Collections Reform Act;
4. Unfair Competition Law.  
 
            Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
 
            Cross-Defendant filed a special
motion to strike the Cross-Complaint under CCP § 425.16, also known as the
anti-SLAPP (“strategic lawsuit against public participation”) statute.  “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to
shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”  Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for
claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.  It only provides a procedure for weeding out,
at an early stage, meritless claims
arising from protected activity.”  Id. at 384.  
 
            “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves two steps.  First, the defendant
must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by
section 425.16.  If the defendant makes
the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the
merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  Baral, 1
Cal.5th at 384 (citation omitted). 
The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’  The
court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.  Its inquiry is limited to whether the
plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual
showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.  It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true,
and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the
plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. 
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”  Id.
at 384-85 (citations omitted). 
 
            “The special motion may be filed
within 60 days of the service of the complaint or, in the court's discretion,
at any later time upon terms it deems proper. The motion shall be scheduled by
the clerk of the court for a hearing not more than 30 days after the service of
the motion unless the docket conditions of the court require a later hearing.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16(f). 
 
            Subdivision (f) “does not require
the moving party to ensure that the hearing is so scheduled.” Karnazes v.
Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 352. In addition, the Court has the
discretion to hear an untimely anti-SLAPP motion even if the Defendant failed
to request leave of court to file an untimely motion. Chitsazzadeh v. Kramer
& Kaslow (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 676, 684. Here, the motion runs afoul
of both time measures of CCP § 425.16(f). However, the Court exercises its
discretion to hear the motion on the merits. 
 
 
              

I.                   
Conduct in
Furtherance of Right of Petition or Free Speech
 
CCP § 425.16(e) states:  “As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance
of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: . . . (1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  “In the anti-SLAPP context,
the critical point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the
defendant's right of petition or free speech.” 
City of Cotati v. Cashman
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.  The
anti-SLAPP's statute focuses, not on the form of cross-complainant’s causes of
action but, rather, cross-defendant’s underlying activity that gives rise to
the asserted liability and whether that activity constitutes protected speech
or petitioning.  See Navellier v. Sletten (2002)
29 Cal.4th 82, 92.
 
In Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, the court held that an anti-SLAPP
motion may be utilized to strike specific allegations of protected activity
without eliminating the entire cause of action or primary right.  “By referring to a “cause of action against a
person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of” the
protected rights of petition and speech, the Legislature indicated that particular
alleged acts giving rise to a claim for relief may be the object of an
anti-SLAPP motion. (§ 425.16(b)(1), italics added.) Thus, in cases involving
allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the plaintiff is
required to establish a probability of prevailing on any claim for relief based
on allegations of protected activity.”  Id. at 395. 
 
            A Cross-Complaint may be subject to
an anti-SLAPP motion. However, [o]nly those cross-complaints alleging a cause
of action arising from the plaintiff's act of filing the complaint against the
defendant and the subsequent litigation would potentially qualify as a SLAPP
action. (§ 425.16, subds. (b) and (d).) For example, a person may attempt to
bring a SLAPP suit alleging that libelous allegations or statements were
contained in the complaint itself. However, because defendant's allegations are
privileged communications under Civil Code section 47, the suit would be
merit-less. A compulsory cross-complaint on a “related cause of action” against
the plaintiff (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a)) would rarely, if ever,
qualify as a SLAPP suit arising from petition activity. By definition, a
“related cause of action” is “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
426.10, subd. (c), italics added.) The SLAPP suit is not “related” to the
transaction or occurrence which is the subject of the plaintiff's complaint,
but arises out of the litigation process itself.” Church of Scientology v.
Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, 651(internal citation omitted).
 
            Here, a review of the
Cross-Complaint and Complaint reveals that the Cross-Complaint arises out of
the same transaction or occurrence as the Complaint. The Cross-Complaint does
not arise from petitioning activity. See, Kajima Engineering and
Const., Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 934. The
gravamen of the Cross-Complaint involves allegations that Cross-Complainant is
entitled to statutory damages and other relief based on Cross-Defendant’s
unlawful debt collection activities. The Cross-Complaint does not itself arise
from the simple act of filing the Complaint, but, instead upon the underlying
factual disputes outlined in the Cross-Complaint. The gravamen of the causes of
action and the underlying theory of recovery do not depend on the filing of the
Complaint itself but upon the alleged underlying facts and conduct of
Cross-Defendant during the debt collection process. 
 
            However, the Court does note that certain
specific allegations of the Cross-Complaint do implicate petitioning activity.
Cross-Complainant alleged: “In this case,
the Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Credit Corp Solutions, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant”
or “Credit Corp”) sued Mr. Ferrera without providing the disclosures and
documents required under state law.”  (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 4.)  In addition, paragraphs 42 to 48,
58c, and 84c-f, of the Cross-Complaint, which attempts to outline failures
within the Complaint, also implicate petitioning activity. 
 
            Here, however, the principle
delineated in Baral v. Schnitt (2016)
1 Cal.5th 376 applies because these allegations referenced above do
implicate protected conduct of filing litigation. “The constitutional right to petition ... includes the
basic act of filing litigation or otherwise seeking administrative action.”
Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275, 281. In this
situation, it is appropriate to analyze whether to strike the specific
allegations of the protected activity without eliminating the entirety of the
causes of action.
 
 
II.                
Probability of
Prevailing on the Merits
 
“To establish a probability of prevailing, the
plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.  For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court
considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and
the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not weigh the credibility
or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant the
motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence supporting the motion
defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary support for the
claim.”  Hawran v. Hixson (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.  However,
the Court must accept as true the evidence favorable to Plaintiff. See Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291. 
 
“[Plaintiff’s] second-[prong] burden is a limited one.
[He] need not prove [his] case to the court [citation]; the bar sits lower at a
demonstration of ‘minimal merit’ [citation]. At this stage, [t]he court does
not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant's showing
only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of law. The
plaintiff must demonstrate this probability of success with admissible
evidence. The plaintiff may not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified;
instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence.” Kieu
Hoang v. Phong Minh Tran (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 513, 531 (internal citations
and quotations omitted).
 
Since Cross-Defendant established the first prong
(solely as to the specific allegations referenced above), Cross-Complainant must
establish a probability of prevailing on the merits with respect to those
allegations.  See, Hawran v. Hixson (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 256, 273-74.  “To
establish a probability of prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited. For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court
considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and
the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not weigh the
credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should
grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence supporting
the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary support for
the claim.”  See, Id.  
 
            Here, as to the specific allegations
of protected speech noted above, Cross-Complainant has met his burden to
establish a probability of prevailing. Cross-Complainant submitted competent
evidence supporting the alleged violations outlined within the allegations.  (Decl., Mark Ferrera, ¶¶ 4-10.)  Cross-Defendant did not submit any substantive
evidence in connection with the motion. The only declaration that was submitted
simply outlined attempts in service of documents. (Decl., Abril Saglio-Ruiz.)
Instead, it appears that Cross-Defendant primarily relies upon the litigation
privilege of Civ. Code § 47(b).  However,
the litigation privilege does not bar claims for violations of debt collection
laws that regulate conduct in litigation. Moten v. Transworld Systems Inc.
(2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 691, 706; Komarova v. National Credit Acceptance, Inc.
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 324, 340. Therefore, Cross-Complainant has met his
burden to show a probability of prevailing on the merits of the allegations.
 
            Thus, Cross-Defendant’s anti-SLAPP
motion to strike the entirety of Cross-Complaint is denied. The anti-SLAPP
motion to strike the allegations noted above that do implicate protected
activity is also denied.  
 
            Cross-Complainant is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.