 Case Number:  21STCV14665    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




benjamin trevino-rocha

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
james hardie building
   products, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV14665




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   23, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for order quashing or
  modifying deposition subpoenas for production of business records
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha
    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant James Hardie Building Products
Inc.
Motion for Order Quashing or Modifying Deposition Subpoenas for
Production of Business Records
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this
motion.  No reply papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha (“Plaintiff”) filed, on June 26,
2023, a “Notice of Motion for Order Quashing or Modifying Defendant’s
Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records.”  Also on June 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
pending “Amended Notice of Motion for Order Quashing or Modifying Defendant’s
Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records,” requesting that the
court quash or modify the deposition subpoenas served by defendant James Hardie
Building Products Inc. on (1) Nongshim America, (2) Riverside Unified School
District, (3) Zara Distribution Center, and (4) Anita’s Snack Foods.  Plaintiff did not file any other papers. 
The court finds that Plaintiff did not comply with the California
Rules of Court and has not sufficiently supported his request that the court
quash or modify the four deposition subpoenas identified in the Amended Notice
of Motion.  
First, Plaintiff did not file a supporting memorandum of points and
authorities as required.  (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.1113, subd. (a).)  “The court
may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion . . .
is not meritorious and cause for its denial. . . .”  (Ibid.)  The court construes Plaintiff’s failure to
file a supporting memorandum to be an admission that the motion is not
meritorious and supports the denial of the motion.  (Ibid.) 
Second, even if Plaintiff had filed a supporting memorandum, it
appears that Plaintiff’s motion seeks an order quashing the production of
documents or tangible things at a deposition. 
(June 23, 2023 Amended Notice, p. 2, ¶ 2 [stating that “[t]he
documents and records requested by the subject Subpoenas are irrelevant[ and]
immaterial”].)  A motion to quash the
production of documents or tangible things at a deposition is required to be
accompanied by a separate statement. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(5).)  Plaintiff did not file a separate
statement.  The court exercises its
discretion to deny Plaintiff’s motion for failure to comply with this
requirement.  (Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 [court has the discretion to deny a discovery motion
for failure to comply with the requirements of rule 3.1345].) 
Third, even if the court were to find that the absence of the
supporting memorandum and separate statement do not justify denying Plaintiff’s
motion, the court finds that the Amended Notice of Motion does not include
sufficient evidence or argument in support of Plaintiff’s request to quash or
modify the subpoenas and therefore finds that Plaintiff did not meet his burden
to show that the subpoenas should be quashed or modified on the ground that
they violate his right to privacy.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)   
The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rules 3.1113, 3.1345;
Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Benjamin
Trevino-Rocha’s motion for order quashing or modifying defendant’s deposition
subpoenas for production of business records. 
            The court orders defendant James
Hardie Building Products Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 23, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court