  Case Number:  22STCV16380    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



RUSSELL WARD, 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PAPERBACK BREWING LLC,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV16380
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant Paperback Brewing LLC (“Defendant”) moves for
summary judgment against Plaintiff Russell Ward (“Plaintiff”). In the
alternative, Defendant seeks summary adjudication on each cause of action.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication.
 
Background
 
This is an employment case relating to Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendant. The following facts are taken from the parties’
separate statements, referred to as “UMF” (Defendant’s Undisputed Material
Facts), “RUMF” (Plaintiff’s Responses to Undisputed Material Facts), and “AUMF”
(Plaintiff’s Additional Material Facts). 
 
Defendant is a brewery that sells alcoholic beverages to
third-party locations. Plaintiff was employed as a sales representative, but
his job also involved work in deliveries, loading and merchandising. In
particular, Defendant would regularly staff Plaintiff on work that involved
driving a truck to make deliveries. (UMF 6-12.) 
 
Plaintiff suffered a number of injuries during his work for
Defendant, including severe stress-induced stomach issues and a back injury.
Although Plaintiff reported these injuries to Defendant, Defendant did not take
action to accommodate Plaintiff. (RUMF 18, 19.) When Plaintiff reported his
back injury and said that he could not lift kegs anymore, his manager Jace
Milstead told Plaintiff that he should start looking for a new line of work if
he could not handle the physical side of the job. (RUMF 19.) 
 
Plaintiff’s coworkers frequently made sexually-charged
comments toward him that went unaddressed by Defendant. (See generally AUMF
5-15.) Brandon More sent Plaintiff sexual images drawn by another coworker.
Chris Cesnek sent Plaintiff a bumper sticker with sexually charged language on
it, as well as numerous nude photographs of a person holding Defendant’s beer.
Cesneck and Monroe both made comments to Plaintiff regarding Plaintiff’s sexual
activity at various times. On a number of occasions, Plaintiff made similar
sexually charged comments in discussions with coworkers. (UMF 27-33.) Plaintiff
testified in his deposition that he made those comments because he felt forced
to “play along” out of fear of repercussions if he did not. (RUMF 27-33.)
 
Plaintiff did not complain to Defendant about these
activities because the work environment – which Plaintiff characterizes as a
“good ole boy club” – indicated to Plaintiff that if he complained, he would
lose his job. (RUMF 26-33.) Defendant had no policies against sexual harassment
or retaliation. (RUMF 38, AUMF 4.) Plaintiff complained once to Grant Nemirow,
a manager, but Defendant did not take any action. (RUMF 26.)
 
Defendant hired an artist, Nanà Dalla Porta, to draw labels
for its beer cans, and employees would sometimes discuss ideas for label art or
make contributions. Chris Cesnek would also make drawings of his own. The label
art frequently involved drawings of people, often in strange situations. A
number of the labels had sexually charged art on them. Many of the characters
on the labels also appeared in a web comic drawn by Dalla Porta.
 
Plaintiff alleges that one of the characters in the labels
and comics was based on his likeness. On one label, entitled “Tucked in by
Strangers” the character appeared as one of three men in burglar’s costumes
tucking a man into bed with a teddy bear. (RUMF 71.) On another label, entitled
“Swinger Party,” the character appeared in his underwear with a teddy bear.
(AUMF 18, 39, 57, 59-63.) Following this, coworkers and customers would call
Plaintiff “Swinger Party” or “Stranger.” Cesneck would often draw Defendant’s
other employees, often in a sexually explicit manner, without their consent. In
August 2021, Cesnek and Monroe told Plaintiff that another character was based
on a former employee, with Cesnek saying “see what happens when you quit.”
(AUMF 21-23.) Cesneck sketched Plaintiff again for a drawing with a shopping
card, referred to as “Paperback Overdose Goonie” or “POG”; Defendant eventually
sold a beer entitled “POG WARS” with a character allegedly drawn based on
Plaintiff and holding a teddy bear. (AUMF 26-27.) Defendant admits that the
characters with the teddy bear in “Swinger Party,” “Tucked in by Strangers,”
and “POG Wars” are the same character. (UMF 19.)
 
In the months leading up to Plaintiff’s termination,
Defendant’s managers reprimanded him repeatedly, which Defendant contends was
for tardiness, issues with Plaintiff’s driving routes, and failure to complete
paperwork. (UMF 43-50.) Plaintiff disputes that he failed to complete his work
properly. (RUMF 43-50.)
 
It is unclear exactly how Plaintiff felt about his career
prospects with Defendant in the time leading up to his termination. Shortly
before Plaintiff’s termination, he commented that he just wanted to keep his
job. In a text message on January 16, 2022, Plaintiff texted Monroe asking what
day he should come in to close out his career with Defendant and stating “I’m
not going to quit you’re going to have to fire me. I just can’t work with
Jace.” (UMF 50.)
 
Defendant’s management spent some time conversing over
whether Plaintiff could continue to work there, but ultimately terminated
Plaintiff on January 24, 2022.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 17, 2022, raising claims
for (1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (5) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation; (6) failure to engage in a good faither interactive process; (7)
declaratory judgment; (8) wrongful termination; (9) failure to pay wages; (10)
failure to pay minimum wages; (11) failure to pay overtime compensation; (12)
failure to provide meal and rest periods; (13) failure to provide itemized wage
and hour statements; (14) waiting time penalties; (15) failure to permit
inspection of personnel and payroll records; (16) unfair competition; and (17)
appropriation of name or likeness under Civil Code, section 3344.
 
Defendant moved for summary judgment on January 2, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant did not file a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
without prejudice to his ability to raise them at trial.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
(1) Discrimination
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) [the
plaintiff] was a member of a protected class, (2) [the plaintiff] was qualified
for the position he sought or was performing competently in the position [they]
held, (3) [the plaintiff] suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Under the McDonnell Douglas framework, the employer
must carry the burden of showing the employee's action has no merit. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) It may do so with evidence that either: (1)
indicates “that one or more of plaintiff’s prima facie elements is lacking,” or
(2) shows some legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken
against the employee. (Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist. (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 189, 203.)  
 
If defendant meets its burden, the burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to produce substantial evidence that the employer’s showing was
untrue or pretextual by raising at least an inference of discrimination or
retaliation. (Hersant v. California Department of Social Services
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.) “In short, by applying¿McDonnell
Douglas’s shifting burdens of production in the context of a motion for
summary judgment, ‘the judge [will] determine whether the litigants have
created an issue of fact to be decided by the jury.’ [Citation.]” (Caldwell,
supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p. 203.) 
 
Defendant argues that it could not have terminated Plaintiff
for discriminatory reasons because Plaintiff never notified Defendant of his
injuries and because Plaintiff requested to be terminated by text.
 
The factual question of whether Plaintiff told Defendant
about his disability is disputed. Whether Plaintiff can dispute the cause of
his termination is a closer issue. Plaintiff’s text message stating that
Defendant would have to terminate him because he could not work with his manager
Jace Milstead certainly provides a case that Defendant had a non-discriminatory
reason to terminate him. However, insofar as the breakdown of Plaintiff’s
relationship with Milstead resulted from Milstead’s own discriminatory
statements, e.g. that Plaintiff would have to find a new line of work if he
could not lift kegs, the managers that ultimately terminated Plaintiff may have
acted as a cat’s paw for discriminatory animus. Thus, Plaintiff has raised a
triable issue of fact as to whether his disability was a motivating factor in
his termination.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication and therefore denies
summary judgment.
 
(2) Harassment
 
To establish a prima facie case of a hostile work
environment, [the plaintiff] must show that (1) [plaintiff] is a member of a
protected class; (2) [plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with [plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.”  (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital
Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)  
 
“[T]he adjudicator’s inquiry should center, dominantly, on
whether the discriminatory conduct has unreasonably interfered with the
plaintiff’s work performance. To show such interference, ‘the plaintiff need
not prove that his or her tangible productivity has declined as a result of the
harassment.’ It suffices to prove that a reasonable person subjected to the
discriminatory conduct would find, as the plaintiff did, that the harassment so
altered working conditions as to ‘make it more difficult to do the job.’ ” (Harris
v. Forklift Sys. (1993) 510 U.S. 17, 25, conc. opn. of Ginsburg, J.; see
Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (a) [endorsing this language as reflective of
California law].) A single incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a
hostile work environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s
work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)¿
 
Defendant argues that it is undisputed that Plaintiff
welcomed the sexually explicit conduct that his coworkers directed at him. This
is far from clear. While it is true that Plaintiff also engaged in sexually
explicit conduct in return, an employee might reasonably believe that it is
necessary to “play along” in order to keep their job – as Plaintiff provides
evidence that he did. Furthermore, Plaintiff did complain on one occasion, to
no effect - making it unsurprising that Plaintiff did not make subsequent
complaints.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(3) Retaliation
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879,
brackets omitted.) “An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical
component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the
terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1063, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff never complained about
disability discrimination or sexual harassment and that it had
non-discriminatory motives for Plaintiff’s termination. The Court discussed these
arguments above.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(4) Failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation
 
The elements of a cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment or retaliation are: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by
employees or nonemployees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff
(i.e., defendant is the plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of that duty (i.e.,
failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff.
(Trujillo v. North County Transit
District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289; Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1630; Gov. Code, § 12940.)
 
Defendant argues that this claim fails because it is
derivative of Plaintiff’s harassment, discrimination, and retaliation claims.
However, for the reasons discussed above, the Court finds that there are
triable issues of fact.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(5) Failure to provide reasonable accommodation
 
Under Government Code, section 12940, it is an unlawful
employment practice “to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known
physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee” unless the employer
demonstrates doing so would impose an undue hardship. “The essential elements
of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability
covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or
she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.” (Wilson v.
County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1192.)
 
Defendant argues that this claim fails because Plaintiff
never notified it of his disability. However, for the reasons discussed above,
the Court finds that there are triable issues of fact.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.

(6) Failure to engage in a good faith interactive process
 
“FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to
attempt to identify reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized
discussions.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359,
379.)
 
Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to
engage in the interactive process in good faith. “Both employer and employee
have the obligation ‘to keep communications open’ and neither has ‘a right to
obstruct the process.’” [Citation.] Each party must participate in good faith,
undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to
the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one party.
Liability hinges on the objective circumstances surrounding the parties’
breakdown in communication, and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the
party who fails to participate in good faith. [Citation.]” (Swanson v.
Morongo Uni¿ed School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)
 
Defendant argues that this claim fails because it is
derivative of Plaintiff’s reasonable accommodation claim. However, for the
reasons discussed above, the Court finds that there are triable issues of fact.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(7) Declaratory judgment
 
“To qualify for declaratory
relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements:
(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”
(Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory
relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to
demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290).
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.” (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Defendant argues that this claim fails because it is
derivative of Plaintiff’s discrimination, harassment, and retaliation claims. However,
for the reasons discussed above, the Court finds that there are triable issues
of fact.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(8) Wrongful termination
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer
terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially
motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the
plaintiff harm. It is well established that a termination premised on an
employee’s refusal to violate either a statute or an administrative regulation
may support a claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical
Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.)
 
For the reasons discussed above, Plaintiff has supported a
triable issue that management functioned were influenced or manipulate by Milstead’s
discriminatory animus.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication.
 
(9) Failure to pay wages
 
It is well-settled policy in California that all of an
employee’s earned wages must be fully and promptly paid. (Smith v. Superior
Court (2006) 39 Cal.4th 77, 82.) Failure to promptly pay wages results in a
waiting time penalty whereby the wages continue to accrue up to a maximum of 30
days. (Lab. Code § 203.)
 
“‘Wages’ includes all amounts for labor performed by
employees of every description, whether the amount is fixed or ascertained by
the standard of time, task, piece, commission basis, or other method of
calculation.” (Lab. Code, § 200.) Bonuses are treated was wages when the bonus
is promised as part of compensation and the employee fulfills any agreed-to
conditions for the bonus. (Neisendorf v. Levi Strauss & Co. (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 509, 522.) 
 
All earned wages are due and payable immediately upon an
employee’s termination. (Lab. Code, § 201, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff alleges that he was misclassified as a sales
employee and underpaid as a result. Defendant argues that Plaintiff was not
underpaid because he was correctly classified as an exempted outside
salesperson.
 
Outside salespersons are exempt from the Lab. Code’s
requirements regarding minimum wage, overtime, and meal and rest breaks. (Wage
Order 4-2001, §1(D); Cal. Code Regs (“CCR”), tit. 8, §11070; Lab. Code §§1171,
1198; Ramirez v. Yosemite Water Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 785, 789, 795.) An
"outside salesperson" is defined as "any person, 18 years of age
or over, who customarily and regularly works more than half the working time
away from the employer's place of business selling tangible or intangible items
or obtaining orders or contracts for products, services or use of facilities.”
(CCR, tit. 8, §11070(2)(J).)
 
Trial courts inquire into the “realistic requirements of the
job” by considering the following factors: (1) how the employee actually spends
his time; (2) whether the employee’s practice diverges from the employer’s
realistic expectations; (3) whether the employer was dissatisfied with the
employee’s substandard performance; and (4) whether the employer’s dissatisfaction
with the employee was realistic given the actual overall requirements of the
job. (Ramirez, supra, at p. 802.)
 
Here, Plaintiff spent a substantial portion of his time
loading beer into trucks and making deliveries. Defendant was not dissatisfied
with this performance; rather, it assigned Plaintiff to these duties regularly.
Thus, there is a triable issue of fact that Plaintiff was misclassified as an
exempt salesperson.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(10) Failure to pay minimum wages
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
 
(11) Failure to pay overtime compensation
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(12) Failure to provide meal and rest periods
 
An employer must give its employees a 30-minute meal within
the first 5 hours of their shift and rest breaks. (Lab. Code §§ 226.7(a),
512(a); IWC Wage Order No. 4-2001.) An employer satisfies this duty “if it
relieves its employees of all duty, relinquishes control over their activities
and permits them a reasonable opportunity to take an uninterrupted thirty
minute break, and does not impede or discourage them from doing so.” (Cleveland
v. Groceryworks.com, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2016) 200 F.Supp.3d 924, 946.) As such,
“an employee must show that he was forced to forego his meal [and rest] breaks
as opposed to merely showing that he did not take them regardless of the
reason.” (White v. Starbucks Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 497 F.Supp.2d 1080,
1089.)
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(13) Failure to provide itemized wage and hour statements
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(14) Waiting time penalties
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(15) Failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll records
 
Defendant timely produced Plaintiff’s personnel file, but it
is disputed that Defendant timely produced Plaintiff’s payroll records.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(16) Unfair competition
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated the Unfair
Competition Law by misclassifying him.
 
As discussed above, there is a triable issue of fact that
Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt salesperson. Defendant raises no other
points in response to this claim.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.
 
(17) Appropriation of name or likeness 
 
“To sustain a common law cause of action for commercial
misappropriation, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant’s use of the
plaintiff’s identity; (2) the appropriation of plaintiff’s name or likeness to
defendant’s advantage, commercially or otherwise; (3) lack of consent; and (4)
resulting injury.” (Stewart v. Rolling Stone LLC (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
664, 679, quotation marks omitted.) California law also provides a statutory
claim for commercial misappropriation under Civil Code section 3344, which requires
that the plaintiff “prove all the elements of the common law cause of action”
as well as “allege a knowing use by the defendant as well as a direct
connection between the alleged use and the commercial purpose.” (Stewart v.
Rolling Stone LLC, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th at p. 679.)
 
Defendant argues that none of the characters on the beer
labels were based on Plaintiff, but were rather original characters created by
Dalla Porta.
 
Civ. Code §3344(b) also expressly requires that the
plaintiff be “readily identifiable,” that is, “when one who views the
photograph with the naked eye can reasonably determine that the person depicted
in the photograph is the same person who is complaining of its unauthorized use.”
(Ibid.)
 
This is an inherently factual issue. Different people with
different facial recognition skills may have varying judgments on how closely
the Stranger/Swinger Party character resembles Plaintiff. Plaintiff has
provided evidence that customers of Defendant recognized Plaintiff as the
Stranger/Swinger Party character and referred to him as such to his face. There
is thus a triable issue of fact that the beer labels used Plaintiff’s likeness.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication.