 Case Number:  24STCP00478    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IN RE Petition of:
 
J.G. WENTWORTH ORIGINATIONS, LLC, 
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         


 Case No: 
  24STCP00478
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  Add-On



 
 
 
Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC (“Petitioner”)
requests approval of the transfer of certain structured settlement payment
rights from an unidentified payee.
 
The Court DENIES the petition.
 
The Court sets an ORDER To SHOW CAUSE against Petitioner and
Petitioner’s counsel James Felton as to why they should not be sanctioned up to
$1500 each for making express misrepresentations to the Court.  The Court sets the Order to show cause for
April 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Petitioner
and Petitioner’s counsel shall file any response to the Order to Show Cause no
later than March 29, 2024.
 
Background
 
Petitioner seeks to purchase the right to receive
unspecified annuity payments from an unidentified payee (the “Payee”). 
 
Wilton Re Annuity Service Corporation (“Wilton”) is the
structured settlement obligor. Transamerica Life Insurance Company
(“Transmerica”) is the annuity issuer.
 
Petitioner filed this petition on February 14, 2024. The
hearing was originally calendared for April 4, 2024. On March 7, 2024, the
Court granted an ex parte application filed by Petitioner and advanced the
hearing date to March 19, 2024.
 
Transmerica filed an opposition on March 14, 2024.
Petitioner did not file a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Procedural Requirements
 
The court approval process for a transfer of structured
settlement payment rights requires the transferee to file a petition in the
county in which the transferor resides for approval of the transfer. (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(1).)  In addition, the following elements are
required to be served and filed not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled
hearing on any application for approval of a transfer of structured settlement
payment rights: 
 
A.  A copy of the transferee’s current and any
prior petitions. 
B.    A
copy of the transfer agreement. 
C.    A
listing of each of the payee’s dependents, together with each dependent's
age. 
D.    A
copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. 
E.     A
copy of the annuity contract. 
F.     A
copy of any qualified assignment agreement. 
G.    A
copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement. 
H.    Notification
that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond
to the transferee’s application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting
written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing. 
I.       Notification
of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which
and the time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which
may not be less than 15 days after service of the transferee’s notice, in order
to be considered by the court. 
J.       If
the payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years
prior to the date of the transfer agreement, then the transferee shall provide
notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if the attorney is licensed to practice in California, at the
attorney’s address on file with the State Bar of California. The notice shall
be delivered by regular mail. 
K.    Proof
of service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this
section.
 
Further, at the time of filing such a petition, the
transferee shall file a copy of the petition with the California Attorney
General.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.)  Lastly, the court shall retain
continuing jurisdiction to interpret and monitor the implementation of the
transfer agreement as justice requires.  (Id., § 10139.5(i).) 
 
Substantive Requirements
 
This Petition is governed by Insurance Code sections 10134
through 10139.5. (See 321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1066.) Under Insurance Code (“Ins. Code”), section 10137,
a transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court
reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are
met: 
 
a.      The
transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and
in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support
of his or her dependents. 
b.      The
transfer complies with the requirements of this article and will not contravene
other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the transfer as
provided in Section 10139.5. 
 
Pursuant to Insurance Code, section 10139.5, subdivision
(a), the Court must make the following express findings as to a transfer of
structured settlement payment rights: 
 
1.     
The transfer is in the best interest of the payee,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents. 

2.      The
payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent
professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice
or knowingly waived receipt of that advice in writing. 
3.      The
transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with
Section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and
10138. 
4.      The
transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court
or other government authority. 
5.      The
payee reasonably understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the
terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. 
6.      The
payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the
transfer agreement. 
 
The transfer agreement is effective only upon approval in a
final court order. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5(a).)   
 
Discussion
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Petitioner’s
filing is broadly deficient. No evidence is included with the petition, let
alone a declaration from the Payee, making it impossible for the Court to
determine whether the factual requirements to approve the transfer are met. The
Court refers to the proposed transferor as the “Payee.”
 
In TransAmerica’s opposition, the Payee was identified, for
the first time in this proceeding, as Gernene Alonso. In her declaration
attached to the opposition, Alonso objects to the transfer.
 
Procedural Requirements
 
A number of the procedural
requirements are not met.
 
A.  A copy of the transferee’s current and any
prior petitions. 
 
Petitioner does
not identify whether there are any other petitions.
 
C.    A
copy of the transfer agreement. 
 
Petitioner states that it will supplement a copy of the
transfer agreement but has not done so.
 
D.    A
listing of each of the payee’s dependents, together with each dependent's
age. 
 
Petitioner states that the Payee has no minor children, but
provides no evidence in support of this proposition.
 
E.     A
copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. 
 
Petitioner states that it will supplement a copy of the
disclosure but has not done so.
 
F.     A
copy of the annuity contract. 
 
Petitioner states that it will supplement a copy of the
annuity contract but has not done so.
 
G.    A
copy of any qualified assignment agreement. 
 
Petitioner refers to Exhibit C for this requirement, which
does not include any qualified assignments. 
 
H.    A
copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement. 
 
Petitioner states that it will supplement a copy of
underlying settlement agreement but has not done so.
 
I.       Notification
that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond
to the transferee’s application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting
written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing. 
 
Petitioner provides a proof of service indicating that
Transmerica, Wilton, and the Payee have been served with the petition.
 
J.       Notification
of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which
and the time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which
may not be less than 15 days after service of the transferee’s notice, in order
to be considered by the court. 
 
Petitioner has provided a proof of service for the
notifications.
 
K.    If
the payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years
prior to the date of the transfer agreement, then the transferee shall provide
notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if the attorney is licensed to practice in California, at the
attorney’s address on file with the State Bar of California. The notice shall
be delivered by regular mail. 
 
Petitioner does not identify whether the Payee has entered
into such a settlement.
 
L.     Proof
of service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this
section.
 
Petitioner has provided a proof of service for the petition.
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Payee’s declaration indicates that she wishes to exercise
her right to cancel the transfer agreement. (Alonso Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.)
 
The Court therefore denies the petition.
 
Sanctions
 
Petitioner’s actions in this case are concerning. Petitioner
filed the petition without identifying the Payee whose rights were to be
transferred to Petitioner or attaching a declaration from the Payee or anyone
else. Petitioner then filed an ex parte to advance the hearing date, which the
Court granted based on the averments of Petitioner’s attorney, James Felton,
that the Payee was suffering financial hardship and requested that the hearing
be advanced because he needed the lump sum payment from the transaction as soon
as possible.
 
Alonso’s declaration paints a very different story. Alonso
declares that she has already agreed to sell her annuity rights to Transmerica.
Alonso further declares that Petitioner has tried to purchase her payments and
has continued to contact her even though she has “told them repeatedly that
[she does] not want to work with them.” (Alonso Decl. ¶ 5.) Her declaration
also suggests that Petitioner sought to induce her to enter into an agreement
with it. (Alonso Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
These circumstances create an appearance that Petitioner has
made untrue assertion to the Court, both in filing this petition and in seeking
the advancement of the hearing date. Especially concerning is the declaration
of Petitioner’s counsel in support of the ex parte, which states that “the
Respondent requested that we seek to advance the hearing date so that they will
… have the receipt of the funds at an earlier time.” (Felton Decl. in support
of Ex Parte Application to Advance Hearing on Petition ¶ 3-4.) This statement
appears broadly inconsistent with Alonso’s declaration, if not flatly
contradicted by it.
 
The Court relied on counsel’s apparently untrue statement to
advance the hearing date.  The Court did
so despite the inconvenience to the Court’s calendar based on the—apparently
untrue—exigent circumstance that the Respondent was in grave need of the cash
from Petitioner at the earliest possible date. 

 
The Court therefore orders Petitioner to show cause why it
should not be sanctioned. The Court also orders Petitioner’s counsel James
Felton to show cause why he should not be sanctioned up to $1500 each for
apparent misrepresentations to the Court.
 