 Case Number:  24STCV10555    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Sara Keller,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV10555




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants The Elevance Health
Companies of California and Elevance Health, Inc., joined by Specially
Appearing Defendant Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company
Responding Party: Plaintiff Sara Keller
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS THE
ELEVANCE HEALTH COMPANIES OF CALIFORNIA AND ELEVANCE HEALTH, INC.’S MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
DEFENDANT ANTHEM’S JOINDER IS DENIED.
THE ACTION IS STAYED AS TO THE ELEVANCE DEFENDANTS.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants, asserting 8 causes of action for FEHA violations,
retaliation, and wrongful termination.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreements in the employment application executed by
Plaintiff on June 30, 2005 and the New Associate Acknowlegment form executed by
Plaintiff on July 25, 2005. (Decl. Robinson, Exh. 1-2.) The later executed agreement
provides, “I understand and agree that I will be subject to
the Company’s mutual arbitration policy. Thus, I agree to resolve all legal
disputes with the Company through final and binding arbitration, as more fully
described in the Associate Handbook and Human Resources Policy #613,
Arbitration. Both the Associate Handbook and Human Resources Policy #613,
Arbitration are located on the Company’s intranet site, WorkSite. I acknowledge
that this arbitration policy includes claims the Company may have against me.” (Id., Exh. 2.) 
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is
unenforceable because it is procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
Defendants assert that questions of enforceability are reserved for the
arbitrator under the delegation clause. The enforceability of an arbitration
agreement is generally determined by the court. (See Aanderud v. Superior
Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 781.) However, parties may agree to arbitrate
gateway questions of arbitrability such as the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement and whether claims are covered by the arbitration agreement. (See Rent-A-Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69; Aanderud, supra, 13
Cal.App.5th at 891-92; Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781.)  “To establish this exception, it must be
shown by ‘clear and unmistakable’ evidence that the parties intended to
delegate the issue to the arbitrator.”  (Ajamian,
supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781 (citing First Options of Chicago, Inc. v.
Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944).)
 
Here, the parties agreed that “the Arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute
relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability or formation of
this policy, including but not limited to any claim that all or any part of
this policy is void or voidable.”
(Decl. Robinson, Exh. 4.) This is a clear and unmistakable delegation clause.
Issues of arbitrability are reserved for the arbitrator. 
 
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED as to moving Defendants.
 
C. Defendant Anthem’s Joinder
 
On October 8, 2024, specially appearing
Defendant Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance
Company filed a joinder to this motion, arguing that Plaintiff should arbitrate
claims against Anthem, a non-signatory, under the third-party beneficiary
theory.   
 
The hearing on this motion is set for October 15, 2024. Anthem has raised unique substantive
arguments in their joinder to which Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
respond. This is insufficient notice under CCP § 1005. The joinder is DENIED.
 
 