  Case Number:  20STCV00834    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial, or in the alternative, Dismiss the Cross-Complaint filed by
Cross-Defendant Olive RHF Housing Partners, L.P. 
Tentative
The motion to continue trial is denied as
moot.
The motion to dismiss is denied without
prejudice.
Background
On January 8, 2020, Elizabeth Cano (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”), Retirement Housing Foundation (“RHF”),
and Does 1 through 25 for dangerous condition of public property, negligence,
and premises liability arising out of an alleged slip and fall occurring on
April 30, 2019, on the sidewalk in front of 222 South Olive Street in Los Angeles.
 
On February 19, 2020, City filed an answer and
cross-complaint against RHF and Roes 1 through 25.
 
On March 9, 2021, RHF filed an answer to City’s cross-complaint
and its own cross-complaint against City. On April 12, 2021, City filed an
answer to RHF’s cross-complaint.
 
In or about March 2021, Plaintiff and RHF settled.  RHF applied for a good faith settlement
determination; it was not opposed, and on May 14, 2021, the Court entered an
order determining the settlement between Plaintiff and RHF to be in good faith
under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
In May and June 2021, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiff, dismissed all causes of action in the complaint against RHF with
prejudice; the Court, at the request of City, dismissed all causes of action in
City’s cross-complaint against RHF with prejudice; and the Court, at the
request of RHF, dismissed all causes of action in RHF’s cross-complaint against
City with prejudice.
 
On March 7, 2024, City amended its cross-complaint to
name Olive RHF Housing Partners, LP (“Olive”) as Roe 1.


On July 10, 2024,
Olive filed an answer to City’s cross-complaint.  On July 16, 2024, Olive filed a
cross-complaint against City.
On July 10,
2024, Olive filed this motion to continue trial, or in the alternative, dismiss
under California Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. 
While the motion
was pending, the parties filed a stipulation to continue trial to June 2025,
which the Court approved.
On July 25, City
filed an opposition to the request for dismissal.  (The opposition was served on July 19 but was
not filed at the time, likely because of the cyber attack directed at the Los
Angeles County Superior Court on or about that same date.)  Olive filed a reply on July 25.
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or more alleged joint tortfeasors, a
party may seek a court order under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (a) determining that a settlement between the plaintiff and one or
more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. Under subdivision (c), a judicial
determination of good faith bars other joint tortfeasors who received notice of
the motion “from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor … for
equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (c).)
Discussion
Olive’s motion to
continue trial is denied as moot, as the Court has already continued the trial
date to June 2, 2025.
Also in its moving
papers, Olive briefly argues that City’s cross-complaint should be dismissed under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (c).  Olive states (but provides no evidence) that
it is a subsidiary of RHF, and Olive argues that the good faith settlement bar
should be extended to subsidiaries of settling parties.  
The motion to
dismiss is denied without prejudice.  A subsidiary
is a separate legal entity from the parent (subject to certain exceptions, such
as the alter ego doctrine).  Olive was
not named as a party at the time of the settlement; when RHF applied for a good
faith determination it gave no notice to the City that the Court’s determination
would apply to its subsidiaries (whether Olive or any other entity); and
nothing in the Court’s order finding the settlement to be in good faith
mentioned or referred to RHF’s subsidiaries (whether generally or Olive specifically.).  Perhaps on some other record, with additional
facts or legal arguments, Olive might establish a viable defense on this
ground, but on this record Olive has failed to do so.  Accordingly, the motion to dismiss is
denied.  The denial is without prejudice in
that Olive may assert this same defense at or before trial (through some other
motion). 
The request to
continue trial is DENIED AS MOOT. 
The motion to
dismiss is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES AS MOOT the request to
continue trial.
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE the motion
to dismiss.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.