Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV05853
Plaintiff's Name: Jose Carranza, Suzette Carranza
Defendant's Name: General Motors, LLC
People-Names: Jose Carranza, Suzette Carranza, Thomas D. Long
Company-Names: General Motors, LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: February 16, 2021, September 7, 2023, January 10, 2024, March 19, 2024
Events: Breach of warranties, deposition, discovery order, motion to compel
Money: $500 per day
Intentions: Compel defendant's compliance with discovery order, request monetary sanctions
Facts: Purchased allegedly defective vehicle, granted motion to compel deposition
Disputes: Disobedience of discovery orders, compliance with court orders
Acts: Filed motion to compel, did not oppose motion, produce documents for deposition
Agreements: Discovery order, motion to compel
Laws: California Superior Court rules, discovery laws
Case Citations: None
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure
Roles: Judge (Thomas D. Long), Plaintiffs (Jose Carranza, Suzette Carranza), Defendant (General Motors, LLC)
Significant Statements: "The Court has already ordered Defendant to produce its PMK and documents for deposition and sees no need to repeat its order."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The judge, Hon. Thomas D. Long, has issued a tentative ruling denying the plaintiffs' motion to compel the defendant's compliance with a discovery order. The plaintiffs, Jose Carranza and Suzette Carranza, had filed a motion to compel the deposition of the defendant's PMK, and the court had previously granted the motion in part. The plaintiffs are now seeking to compel the defendant's compliance with the discovery order and are requesting monetary sanctions of $500 per day until the defendant complies. The judge has denied the motion without prejudice, meaning the plaintiffs can bring a different motion seeking sanctions. The judge notes that disobedience of discovery orders can result in monetary sanctions and may even lead to evidentiary preclusion or the issuance of sanctions if the defendant is still out of compliance at the final status conference or at the commencement of trial.