 Case Number:  21STCV36875    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YASAMAN BANAYAN, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
WILSHIRE MANNING HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV36875
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 19, 2024



 
On February 8, 2023, Bahar Davidoff filed a cross-complaint
against Yasaman Banayan, Manouchehr Banayan, and Roya Morovati.
On February 21, 2024, Davidoff filed a
motion to leave to amend the cross-complaint. 
No oppositions were filed.

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Davidoff
provides a copy of the proposed amended cross-complaint.  (Medioni Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. 1.)  According to Davidoff, “[t]he proposed amendments
are mostly predicated on the same general facts set forth alleged in the Cross-Complaint,
as well as additional facts which substantiate and fully spell out the newly pled
breach of lease and breach of guaranty causes of action.”  (Motion at p. 3.)  Discovery in the instant action is still ongoing;
no depositions have been taken or set and no dispositive motions are pending.  (Medioni Decl. ¶ 13.)  Trial is not until October 28, 2024.  No party opposed the motion.
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  Davidoff is ordered to file and
serve the amended cross-complaint within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 