  Case Number:  20STCV30564    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 JANE DOE L.P., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOWNEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV30564
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO ALLOW FURTHER MEET AND CONFER AND STRIKING NOTICE OF
  UNAVAILABILITY
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 19, 2024



 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff
Jane Doe L.P. served a Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant Downey Unified School
District’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Fact Witness Principal Tom Houts and Request
for Production of Documents (“RFPs”) on Defendant Downey Unified School District.  (Baldermann Decl. ¶ 6 Ex. 5.)  On January 8, 2024, Defendant served objections.  (Baldermann Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. 6.)  After meeting and conferring, Plaintiff filed
a motion to compel further responses RFP No. 4 on February 22, 2024.
If
a deponent fails to produce any document that is specified in the deposition notice
or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that production.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)  “This motion
shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
Although
the request may be duplicative of Plaintiff’s Request for Production – Set One from
2021 (see Opposition at pp. 3-4), the discovery statutes do not “suggest[] that
seeking documents under one statutory procedure bars a litigant from seeking the
same documents under the other.”  (Carter
v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 994, 997.)  Plaintiff may request the same documents through
different discovery procedures, and this motion was timely filed after the PMK deposition.
Defendant
argues that “Principal Houts is not the custodian of the private educational records
pertaining to K.G. or any other student. 
The District itself has access to those records with the ability to produce
them; Principal Houts does not.”  (Opposition
at p. 2.)  “Plaintiff has not established
that the documents responsive to RPD 4 are within the deponent’s control.  Principal Tom Houts does not have the District’s
records regarding K.G. and stated as much in his deposition.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)  Principal Houts was not only deposed individually.  His deposition was also taken as Defendant’s PMK.  (See Motion, Ex. 5.)  Accordingly, if Defendant has possession and control
of any requested documents, it should have produced them through its PMK at that
deposition.
RFP
No. 4 requests “Any and all SCHOOL RECORDS in YOUR possession, custody or control
for K.G.”  “SCHOOL RECORDS” is defined as
“any and all written notes, memos, reports, or other writings regarding a student
including but not limited to report cards, progress reports, letters, notes, nurses’
notes, attendance records, health records, incident reports, IEP reports, correspondence,
class schedules, or any other written material having anything whatsoever to do
with the student in YOUR possession, custody or control.”
Defendant
argues that this request invades non-party K.G.’s privacy rights, is not relevant
and essential, and is overbroad.  Plaintiff
alleges that, “[d]espite being tasked with additional supervision of Plaintiff L.P.,
her 1-on-l aide defied her duties and abandoned Plaintiff L.P., leaving her alone
and unattended on this occasion in direct violation of her IEP.”  (Complaint ¶ 22.)  Plaintiff was then assaulted by K.G.  (See Complaint ¶ 22.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “negligently
failed to carry out its duties to properly and adequately supervise Plaintiff L.P.”  (Complaint ¶ 23.)  Defendant also “failed to discipline, investigate,
warn, appropriately supervise, or suspend [K.G.] despite having actual or constructive
knowledge that he had engaged in inappropriate conduct with other minor student.”  (Complaint ¶ 46.)  Accordingly, some information about K.G., such
as that related to Defendant’s knowledge of his prior similar misconduct and need
for supervision, may be relevant.  (See Motion
at p. 2.)
However,
RFP No. 4 is overbroad.  Plaintiff concedes
that, “[t]o the extent the Court finds the request to be overbroad, Plaintiff is
happy to limit the request to the 5 year period prior to the incident.”  (Motion at p. 4.)  The unlimited timeframe is not the only overbreadth
issue.  Plaintiff has not shown any good cause
for requesting the entire student record, including but not limited to the requests
for “all written notes,” report cards, progress reports, attendance records, health
records, and class schedules.
RFP
No. 4 also infringes on K.G.’s privacy rights without giving him notice before the
disclosure.  Plaintiff admits that she “has
been unable to provide Student K.G. with the requisite notice regarding their request
for his student records.”  (Motion at pp.
4-5.)  Plaintiff contends that Defendant prevented
giving notice to K.G. because it refused to provide their contact information.  (Motion at pp. 4-5; Reply at pp. 4-5.)  Plaintiff’s own exhibits show that Defendant provided,
at a minimum, K.G.’s guardian’s email address when it communicated the parent’s
objection to subpoena for K.G.’s deposition. 
(Baldermann Decl., Ex. 11.)
The
motion to compel further responses is CONTINUED to _______________.
The
parties are ordered to meet and confer about the scope of RFP No. 4.  Defendant is also ordered to provide K.G.’s guardian’s
last known address and phone number to Plaintiff so that Plaintiff can provide notice
of this motion and the continued hearing date.
On
March 7, 2024 counsel for Plaintiff filed and served a “Notice of
Unavailability of Counsel” designating March 26 through March 29 as a period of
time during which counsel demands that no one will take any actions in the case
and threatening sanctions if anyone does so. The Court on its own motion
strikes the Notice of Unavailability of Counsel under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 436(b).  
“It
has apparently become common practice in the trial courts for litigants to file
a “notice of unavailability” under the guise of Tenderloin Housing Clinic,
Inc. v. Sparks (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 299, 10 Cal.Rptr.2d 371. The notice
purports to advise the other parties to the action—as well as the court—that
the deliverer will not be available for a prescribed period of time and that no
action may be taken during that period which adversely affects the unavailable
party. To the extent this practice attempts to put control of the court's
calendar in the hands of counsel—as opposed to the judiciary—it is an
impermissible infringement of the court's inherent powers.” Carl v. Superior
Court (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 73, 74-75.
As
the Carl court explained, “[n]othing in Tenderloin, however,
expressly condones the practice that has grown up around its name. It has
simply been made up.” Id. at 76.
Counsel
for Plaintiff is ordered to cease and desist from filing Notices of
Unavailability in cases pending in Department 48 (Stanley Mosk Courthouse) in
this court. 
Court
Clerk to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 