 Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DJAMILEH MAHJOBI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAVID E FERMELIA, MD,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV36767
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 19, 2024



 
On September 27, 2021, Plaintiff
Djamileh Mahjobi filed this medical malpractice action against Defendant David E.
Fermelia MD.
On
November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses.
According
to Plaintiff, “As a matter of calendaring, this motion was original[ly] scheduled
for December 28, 2023.  Thereafter it was
continued by court to February 13 2024.  There
was no notice that the motion will be heard or continued to March 19 2024.”  (Reply at p. 1.)  Not so. 
Plaintiff’s motion originally noticed a March 19, 2024 hearing date.  On December 21, 2023, the Court continued the
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories
– Set Two to February 13, 2024.  This motion,
however, has always been scheduled for March 19, 2024.
MULTIPLE
MOTIONS
Plaintiff’s
single motion seeks to compel production pursuant to two discovery requests: Request
for Admissions – Set One and Special Interrogatories – Set Two.
  Each category of discovery should have been filed
as a separate motion, with separate filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being scheduled as only one motion and
one hearing, the total substance is that of two motions.  This unfairly allows Plaintiff to take only one
hearing reservation each (instead of two), resulting in an inaccurate projection
and accounting of the Court’s workload and inconvenience for both the court and
other litigants.  Plaintiff is ordered not
to do this again and is warned that continued action of this type may result in
monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.
Because
Plaintiff’s Request to Waive Court Fees was granted, the Court will not order Plaintiff’s
payment of additional filing fees.
For
any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion for each discovery
request, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
Plaintiff
was previously informed of this in the Court’s February 13, 2024 order, but this
motion was filed before that admonition.
OTHER
FILING CONSIDERATIONS
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic documents
must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when technologically
feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00,
at ¶ 6(a).)  The table of contents and all
attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d);
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).) 
Plaintiff’s filings do not comply with these requirements.
Additionally,
for a motion to compel further, the moving party must meet and confer with the opposing
party and file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of
outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow
the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the Court’s website, www.lacourt.org) and file a joint statement.  Plaintiff did not comply with these requirements.
If
any party continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may
strike the filings or impose monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff was previously informed of this in the
Court’s February 13, 2024 order, but this motion was filed before that admonition.
In
any event, despite the irregularities described above, the court will decide
this motion on the merits.  But the
parties are warned that future failures to comply with the Court’s procedures
may result in motions being denied and/or monetary or other sanctions.
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES – SET TWO
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
For
Special Rog Nos. 1, 3, 8-11, 15, Defendant provided boilerplate objections before
responding.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The remaining responses are complete and compliant.  The motion is DENIED.
Special
Rog No. 2 asks Defendant to “describe with specificity that action that each [individual
named for Special Rog No. 1] took during the Surgery.”  Defendant provided boilerplate objections before
responding that the two doctors “both assisted with the surgery.”  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED, and Defendant must provide
supplemental responses within 30 days.
Special
Rog No. 4 asks Defendant to state all supporting facts for his contention that the
medical care and surgery was within the standard of care.   Special Rog Nos. 5 and 6 ask Defendant to identify
every person with knowledge of those facts and every supporting document.  Special Rog Nos. 12-13 ask Defendants to state
every fact forming the basis for his denials of the causes of action.  Special Rog No. 16 asks for the reason for removing
each parathyroid, and Special Rog No. 17 asks what Defendant did with them after
removal.  Special Rog No. 18 asks Defendant
to state, without a third-party expert witness, why Plaintiff was hospitalized for
several days after surgery.  Defendant provided
only boilerplate objections.  Defendant’s
objections are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED,
and Defendant must provide supplemental responses within 30 days.
Special
Rog No. 7 requests the date and location of every parathyroidectomy that Defendant
performed on anyone within the past 20 years. 
Defendant’s objections based on overbreadth and burden are sustained, and
other objections are overruled.  The motion
as to this interrogatory is DENIED.
Special
Rog No. 14 asks Defendant to “state with specificity the duration of Surgery.  Hours and minutes, from the time patient was taken
to Operative room to when patient was transferred to Recovery area.”  Defendant explains that the request “asks for
the surgical duration, and then requests time from [when] patient was taken into
operating room to when the patient was transported to an unknown recovery area,
which encompasses more than the initial question regarding the duration of the surgery.  On this basis, responding party cannot answer
as it is unclear what is being asked.”  Defendant’s
objections for vagueness and ambiguity are sustained.  The motion is DENIED as to this interrogatory
without prejudice to the drafting of a more precise interrogatory in a future
discovery request.
REQUEST
FOR ADMISSIONS – SET ONE
This
motion is duplicative of Plaintiff’s motion filed on November 30, 2023.  (See Motion, Ex. C.)  The Court already ruled on Plaintiff’s Request
for Admissions – Set One on February 13, 2024. 
The motion is DENIED in this respect.
Court
clerk to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 