  Case Number:  21STCV29304    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department
40
 



JESUS ASAEL HERRERA LOPEZ, etc., et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
EUGENE LA PIETRA, etc., et al.,
                        Defendants. 


  Case No.:         21STCV29034
  Hearing Date:  12/5/23
  Trial Date:       N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Dismiss for
  Lack of Standing 



 
Defendants Eugene La Pietra, Alwin La
Pietra, and Carl La Pietra filed a Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Standing,
which Plaintiff opposed on November 20, 2023, and Defendants replied on
November 27, 2023. 
 
After review, the Court DENIES WITHOUT
PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Standing.  
 
Background
 
Pleadings 
 
On August 9, 2021, Plaintiffs Jesus Asael
Herrera Lopez (individually and in his capacity as the Successor in Interest of
Alejandro Lopez Herrera aka Alejandro La Pietra) and Does 1 through 10 filed a
complaint against Defendants Eugene La Pietra, Alwin La Pietra (individually
and in his capacity as the trustee of the La Pietra Extended Family Trust dated
June 09, 2017), Carl La Pietra (individually and in his capacity as the trustee
of the La Pietra Extended Family Trust dated June 09, 2017), Janay La Pietra,
Noah Benton (dismissed on October 1, 2021), and Does 1 through 50, alleging
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Pooling Agreement; (2) Breach of Implied in
Fact Contract; (3) Fraud; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Aiding and Abetting
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (6) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (7) Unjust Enrichment;
(8) Unjust Enrichment; (9) Constructive Trust; (10) Constructive Trust; (11)
Declaratory Relief; (12) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (13) Conversion;
and (14) Intentional Interference with Existing Contractual Relations. 
 
(The Court will use the parties’ first
names for ease of reference and clarity considering the parties’ shared last
names. No disrespect is intended.) 
 
The claims arise from allegations that,
among other things, Plaintiff Jesus Herrera Lopez is the beneficiary of the
estate of his deceased brother/adoptive father, Alejandro Lopez Herrera aka
Alejandro La Pietra, and that Plaintiff has been denied a sizeable estate
belonging to Alejandro at the time of this death due to Defendants’ conduct. 
 
Jesus alleges that Alejandro and Eugene
were romantic and business partners who could not legally marry prior to the
2014 change in California law allowing same sex marriage. As a result, pursuant
to a 1993 oral agreement, Alejandro and Eugene agreed to treat as joint
property all earnings, income, and property owned by each of them from the
beginning of their relationship onwards, to be divided equally upon death,
separation, or otherwise, with the couple amassing an eight-plus-figure estate
by the time of Alejandro’s death on August 11, 2017. Jesus also alleges that he
was legally adopted by Alejandro (claimed by Plaintiff as taking place in
1998), that he began living with Eugene and Alejandro in or around 1999, and
that Alejandro and Eugene were married on February 4, 2014. Plaintiff alleges
that after Alejandro’s death, Eugene initiated trust proceedings as to
Alejandro’s estate in San Diego, California, as controlled by The La Pietra
Extended Family Trust dated June 09, 2019 (the Trust; and the San Diego
proceedings). Plaintiff alleges that in 2019, Plaintiff found a will in Mexico
allegedly executed by Alejandro on July 28, 2017, shortly before his death on
August 11, 2017. The will revoked all prior testamentary documents executed by
Alejandro—including the Trust at issue in the San Diego proceedings—and named
Plaintiff Jesus as the sole beneficiary of Alejandro’s estate. Plaintiff
alleges to have confronted Eugene with his late brother’s will, only for Eugene
to refuse to acknowledge its validity and represent that Alejandro’s estate was
minimal because Eugene had acquired most of his wealth before the parties were
married, rendering most of the assets at issue Eugene’s separate property.
Plaintiff’s complaint frames this conduct by Eugene as a repudiation of the
oral 1993 agreement between Alejandro and Eugene. 
 
Procedural History
 
On October 22, 2021, the Court granted a
stipulation by the parties and stayed this action in its entirety “until there
is a final judgment on the Petition to Determine the Validity of Trust filed by
Plaintiff Jesus Herrera Lopez herein on September 27, 2019, which [wa]s set for
trial on January 7, 2022 in (San Diego County Court Case No.
37-2019-00028567-PR-TR-CTL) [the San Diego proceedings].” 
 
On March 25, 2022, the Court granted
another stipulation by the parties and ordered another basis for a stay in this
action, i.e., “until there is a resolution of the claims presented in (Los
Angeles County Court, Case No. 20STPB07984 – Estate of Alejandro Lopez Herrera
aka Alejandro La Pietra Decedent) [hereinafter, the probate proceedings, which
involves a determination on competing wills for Alejandro’s estate].” 
 
On June 2, 2022, Department 1 determined
that certain other civil matters before the Superior Court were not related to
this action and the probate proceedings (20STPB07984). The Court also
determined that this action need not be related to the probate proceedings and
made two notes regarding this action. First, Department 1 stated that the
parties “ha[d] already stipulated to stay the civil case pending ‘resolution of
the claims presented’ in the probate proceedings relating to the competing
Wills.” Second, Department 1 stated that “there [wa]s minimal risk of
conflicting rulings or duplications of judicial resources” as to the
determination of “which Will is valid” because this action “[wa]s stayed
pending the probate court’s determination on th[e] [Will validity] issue.” 
 
On June 24, 2022, this Court held a
status conference re the San Diego proceedings, at which time the Court and
counsel conferred on the issue of stay and the probate proceedings, with the
Court ordering that this action remain stayed and noting that the probate
action was pending. The Court continued the status conference to October 31,
2022. 
 
On October 31, 2022, this Court held another
status conference re the San Diego proceedings, at which time the Court and
counsel conferred on the status of the case and counsel represented to the
Court that another case could be related to this action. The Court continued
the status conference to June 2, 2023. 
 
On March 27, 2023, the Court continued
the status conference from June 2, 2023 to August 7, 2023. 
 
On August 7, 2023, the Court held a third
status conference re the San Diego proceedings, at which time the Court was
informed that the San Diego proceedings had concluded and that the Los Angeles probate
proceedings would probably go to trial in the middle of next year. The Court
also noted that this action had been ruled not related to the probate
proceedings and set a status conference re status of probate proceedings for
October 10, 2023. 
 
On October 10, 2023, the Court held a
status conference as well as heard Plaintiff Jesus Herrera Lopez’s motion to
lift the stay of this action on the ground of Eugene’s stage 4 prostate cancer
and alleged declining health and mental ability. The Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion in part. The Court lifted the stay as to conducting discovery from Defendant
Eugene La Pietra. The Court rejected Defendants’ argument that a defect in
Plaintiff’s Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32 declaration undercut
Plaintiff’s standing in this action and the Court stated that “the Court cannot
find that Plaintiff lacks standing to pursue this action” based on Defendants’
failure to challenge the 377.32 declaration pursuant to a plea in abatement.
The Court also stated that “[t]o the extent Defendants argue that Plaintiff
does not have standing because there is an issue with the validity of the will,
such argument depends on the finding of the concurrent Probate Court. Clearly,
this is why this case was stayed to begin with.” 
 
The Instant Motion
 
On November 7, 2023, Defendants Eugene,
Alwin, and Carl filed and served a motion to dismiss for lack of standing. The
motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff has never had the proper standing
to bring this action and currently lacks proper standing to maintain this
action. Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not and cannot demonstrate that
he is the sole successor-in-interest to Alejandro. On November 8, 2023,
Defendant Janay filed a joinder in the motion for lack of standing. 
 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed and
served an opposition to the motion. On November 27, 2023, Defendants Eugene,
Alwin, and Carl filed a reply brief. 
 
Judicial
Notice
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Jesus’s Request for Judicial
Notice pursuant to California Evidence Code, Sections 452(d) and 453. The
Court thereby takes judicial notice of this Court’s October 10, 2023 Minute
Order in this action and Plaintiff’s Petition for Probate filed in the probate
proceedings.
 
Motion to Dismiss
for Lack of Standing: DENIED WITHOUT PREJDUICE.
            
 
Legal Standard: 
 
“A cause of action that survives the death of the person
entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor
in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) A “decedent’s successor in interest means the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds
to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject
of a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) A “beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate means: (a) If the decedent died leaving a will, the sole
beneficiary or all of the beneficiaries who succeed to a cause of action, or to
a particular item of property that is the subject of a cause of action, under
the decedent’s will” or “(b) If the decedent died without leaving a will, the
sole person or all of the person who succeed to a cause of action, or to a
particular item of property that is the subject of a cause of action, under
Sections 6401 and 6402 of the Probate Code or, if the law of a sister state or foreign
nation governs succession to the cause of action or a particular item of
property, under the law of the sister state or foreign nation.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.10, subd. (a)-(b).) A “person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest . . . shall execute and file an affidavit or a
declaration under the penalty of pejury” and such affidavit or declaration must
state that there is no action “now pending in California for administration of
the decedent’s estate.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Analysis: 
 
I.  Improper Notice
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ motion should be denied
due to insufficient notice. Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s opposition was
untimely filed and should be disregarded. 
 
“[A]ll moving and supporting papers shall be served and
filed at least 16 court days before the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).) “All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the
court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply
papers at least five court days before the hearing.” (Ibid.) “Any period
of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any
period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which time
period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended
after service by electronic means by two court days.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).) 
 
Defendants filed and served their motion on November 7, 2023
by electronic service with a December 5, 2023 hearing date. The Court was
closed for holidays on November 10, November 23, November 24, 2023. Thus, Defendants
should have filed the motion, at the latest, by November 6, 2023. Thus, the
motion was not filed in a timely manner. 
 
The opposition also was filed and served late. The
opposition was filed and served via electronic service on November 20, 2023.
The opposition should have been filed and served, at the latest, by November 16,
2023.  
 
Plaintiff does not indicate any prejudice due to the late
filing of the motion. If the Court accepts Plaintiff’s argument, then it
follows that Plaintiff’s opposition should also be disregarded for improper
notice. 
 
The Court will not deny Defendants’ motion based on
insufficient notice. The Court will consider the merits of the motion as well
as the opposition. 
 
II.  Lack of Statutory
Authority 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the Court should deny Defendants’
motion because there is no statutory basis for the motion to dismiss and the
notice of motion is invalid. 
 
“A basic principle of motion practice is that the moving
party must specify for the court and the opposing party the grounds upon which
that party seeks relief.” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th
1119, 1125.) A trial court is free to consider a motion regardless of its
label. (Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1602, 1609.) “The
nature of the motion is determined by the nature of the relief sought, not by
the label attached to it.” (City and County of San Francisco v. Muller (1990)
177 Cal.App.2d 600, 603.) 
 
The Court rejects Plaintiff’s contention. The notice of
motion provides that it is brought because Plaintiff lacks proper standing to
maintain the action, and a dismissal of this action is requested on such
grounds. The notice of motion is therefore proper. Moreover, this Court’s October
10, 2023 Minute Order, which granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to lift the
stay in this action, stated that the Court stayed such order so that the Court
could “consider Defendant’s motion that this case should be dismissed for lack
of standing.”  
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendants have brought the
motion under a proper basis and that the notice of motion is valid.
 
 
 
III.  Plaintiff’s
Declaration Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32
 
Defendants contend that this action was improperly brought
because Plaintiff’s declaration under Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32 is defective.
Defendants contend that Plaintiff fabricated that there is no pending action
for administration of Alejandro’s estate. The Court has taken judicial notice
of its October 10, 2023 Minute Order as to Plaintiff’s motion to lift the stay,
and the Court references such order. Defendants raised the same argument in
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to lift the stay and such argument was
rejected by the Court. The Court’s October 10, 2023 Minute Order explicitly
states that “California courts have found that 377.32 declarations are not
conditions precedent to bringing a successor-in-interest-to decedent action and
that a failure to file such declaration merely exposes the action to a plea in
abatement.” (10/10/23 Minute Order at p.7.) The Court has already determined
that the failure to file a proper section 377.32 declaration does not undercut
standing. 
 
Additionally, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that
the Court has already determined that he has standing to bring this action
pursuant to its October 10, 2023 Minute Order. The Court did not find that
Plaintiff has standing to bring this action. The Court stated that due to
Defendants’ failure to raise a timely plea of abatement or an objection to
Plaintiff’s section 377.32 declaration, the Court could not find that
“Plaintiff lacks standing to pursue this action.” (10/10/23 Minute Order at
p.8.) The Court made no finding that Plaintiff had standing. In fact, the Court
opined that “[o]nce the probate proceedings conclude, this Court can determine
whether Plaintiff has standing to bring this action and whether the action
should proceed on that determination.” (Id., p.9.) 
 
IV.  Plea in Abatement
 
In reply, Defendants contend that if the Court decides it is
without power to dismiss this action for lack of standing, they have presented
a meritorious plea in abatement. The Court rejects such contention as explained
below. 
 
“A plea in abatement is essentially a request—not that an
action be terminated—but that it be continued until such time as there has been
a disposition of the first action. Sustaining of a plea of abatement, raised by
demurrer, does not justify a subsequent dismissal of the action without leave
to amend.” (Shuffer v. Board of Trustees (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 208, 217.)
“[A] plea in abatement such as a lack of capacity to sue must be raised by
defendant at the earliest opportunity or it is waived.” (The Rossdale Group,
LLC v. Walton (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 936, 943.) “The proper time to raise a
plea in abatement is in the original answer or by demurrer at the time of the
answer.” (Ibid.) A plea in abatement “is a technical objection and must
be pleaded specifically.” (Vitug v. Griffin (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 488,
494.) 
 
Here, the record in this action does not reflect that an Answer
to the complaint or a demurrer has been filed by any defendant. Thus, Defendants’
argument in their reply brief that they have presented a meritorious plea in
abatement is incorrect. Defendants cannot present a plea in abatement in a
reply brief. If Defendants wish to present a plea in abatement, then they must
do so by either an answer to the complaint or a demurrer to the complaint. 
 
V.  The Standing of
Plaintiff to Prosecute this Action
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff lacks standing to prosecute
this action because he has never been appointed as Alejandro’s personal
representative and he is not a successor-in-interest to Alejandro’s estate. 
 
In support of the motion, Defendants present the declaration
of their counsel, J.T. Fox (“Fox”). Counsel declares that he is familiar with
the San Diego proceedings and the probate proceedings. (Fox Decl., ¶ 2.) On
September 25, 2020, in the probate proceedings, Dr. BJ Hawkins, a private
fiduciary, filed a petition for probate of a will of Alejandro dated July 28,
2017 and for Hawkins’ appointment as Administrator CTA. (Id., ¶ 4 and
Exhibit A.) The July 28, 2017 Will named Jesus as a beneficiary of Alejandro’s
estate and nominated Dr. BJ Hawkins as Alejandro’s personal representative. (Id.)
On April 19, 2023, the Eugene La Pietra Foundation filed a competing petition
for probate of a will dated May 17, 2017 and for the appointment of David
Berrent to serve as Administrator CTA of that will, as well as a will contest.
(Id., ¶ 5 and Exhibit B.) The May 17, 2017 Will named the Eugene La
Pietra foundation as the sole beneficiary of said will and appointed Carl as
Alejandro’s personal representative, with Eugene and Alwin being named
successor personal representatives. (Id.) 
 
In the probate proceedings, on March 30, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a competing will contest, which sought denial of probate of the May 17,
2017 Will on the ground that it was expressly revoked by the July 28, 2017
Will. (Id., ¶ 6.) The probate proceedings are still pending. (Id.)
Hearings on the competing will contests and appointments are presently set for
December 11, 2023 in Department 11 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. (Id.)

 
Here, the parties do not dispute that there is currently no
personal representative of Alejandro’s estate. Based on the declaration of Fox
in support of the motion, there is a will that exists which appointed Jesus as a
beneficiary of Alejandro’s estate. The wills are in dispute in the probate
proceedings. At this point in time, the Court cannot determine whether
Plaintiff does or does not have standing to bring this action as the probate
proceedings are still pending. As stated in the Court’s October 10, 2023 Minute
Order, “[o]nce the probate proceedings conclude, this Court can determine
whether Plaintiff has standing to bring this action and whether the action
should proceed based on that determination.” (10/10/23 Minute Order at p.9.)  
 
Moreover, when a party files a pretrial motion to dismiss a
complaint on standing grounds, “the court may not simply assume the allegations
supporting standing lack merit and dismiss the complaint. Instead, the court
must first determine standing by treating the properly plead allegations as
true.” (Barefoot v. Jennings (2020) 8 Cal.5th 822, 827.) Here, Plaintiff
alleges that he is the sole successor in interest to Alejandro’s estate and the
sole named beneficiary under Alejandro’s will dated July 28, 2017. (Complaint,
¶ 3.) Taken as true, the allegations of the complaint are indicative of
standing. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the Motion to Dismiss for Lack
of Standing WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Standing is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
The Court will set another OSC re: status of the Los Angeles
Probate case, 20STPB07984 in consultation with the parties’ calendars.