  Case Number:  23STCV09202    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NORGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE BRIMEL LLC, and DOES 1 through 10
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
THE BRIMEL LLC,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
YUN CHEN; NEXT GENERATION LOGISTICS INC. and ROES 1 through 50,
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV09202
 Hearing Date:   September
  26, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brimel
  LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
  Adjudication [RES ID # 2413]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Norguard Insurance Company
(Norguard) sues Defendants The Brimel LLC (Brimel), Yun Chen (Chen), and Does 2
through 10 (collectively Defendants), pursuant to an August 14, 2023 First
Amended Complaint (FAC) for reimbursement of workers compensation expenditures.
The Complaint alleges two causes of action for negligence. 
The claims arise from allegations
that Norguard is obligated to pay workers compensation benefits to Angel Manzo
(Manzo). Manzo was injured at his job as a security guard at a commercial
building owned by Brimel and leased to Chen. Norguard alleges that Manzo’s injuries
are the result of Brimel’s negligence and thus Norguard is entitled to
reimbursement of the workers compensation benefits it has paid to Manzo 
On September 25, 2023, Brimel filed
an Answer to the FAC.
That same day, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Brimel filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Yun Chen, Next
Generation Logistics, Inc., and Roes 1 through 50 alleging causes of action for
(1) Express Contractual Indemnity, (2) Implied Indemnity, (3) Apportionment,
(4) Contribution, and (5) Declaratory Relief. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On June 20, 2024, Brimel filed the
instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication, to Norguard’s FAC. Specifically, Brimel argues that it owes no
duty to Manzo since it had no notice of the alleged unsafe condition which
caused Manzo’s injuries. 
On September 12, 2024, Norguard
opposed the motion. 
On September 18, 2024, Brimel
replied. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that
the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
B. Analysis
In bringing a subrogation action
for workers compensation benefits paid, the employer/its insurer “stands in the
same shoes as [the] injured employee.” (Garofalo v. Princess Cruises, Inc. (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 1060, 1070.) The “‘right to recover workers' compensation
benefits derives from and does not extend beyond the employee's tort remedy
against the negligent third party.’[Citation.]” (Ibid.) 
Thus, whether Norguard may pursue
Brimel to recover workers’ compensation benefits depends on whether Brimel
breached a duty of care owed to Manzo. 
 
Here, on May 12, 2021, while
working as a security guard at the subject property owned by Brimel, Manzo
noticed evidence that someone had entered the interior of the building’s office
space. Mr. Manzo climbed an exposed ladder into the space above the office
ceiling. (Opp., p. 2, UMF 17-18.) Using his flashlight, Manzo proceeded to walk
across a piece of plywood that he believed was a wooden path above and on top
of the drop ceiling. (Opp. p. 2., UMF 18; AMF 19.) He realized that the path
was a dead end and, as he turned around, his foot caught on something causing
him to fall off the plywood and through the drop ceiling into the office space
below. (Opp. p. 2., UMF 18; AMF 19.) As a result, Manzo suffered debilitating
injuries.
The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2)
defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that
breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.) Stated differently, because a property owner is not the insurer
of the safety of its guests, the owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of
the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability. (Hall v. Aurora
Loan Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-1140; Ortega v. Kmart
Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 [“to impose liability for injuries
suffered by an invitee due to a defective condition of the premises, the owner
or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to discover the
condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving an
unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises”] [cleaned up].)
“Historically, the public policy of
this state generally has precluded a landlord's liability for injuries to his
tenant or his tenant's invitees from a dangerous condition on the premises
which comes into existence after the tenant has taken possession.¿This is true
even though by the exercise of reasonable diligence the landlord might have
discovered the condition.”¿ (Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44
Cal.App.3d 504, 510; Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 771, 778.)¿This policy is based on the principle that the landlord
has surrendered possession and control of the land to the tenant and has no
right to enter without permission. (Id. at 511.) “[B]efore liability may
be thrust on a landlord for a third party's injury due to a dangerous condition
on the land, the plaintiff must show that the landlord had actual knowledge of
the dangerous condition in question, plus the right and ability to cure the
condition.’”¿(Stone v. Center Trost Retail Properties, Inc. (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 608, 612.)¿
Whether an inspection is reasonable
is based on the burden of avoiding the risk and the likelihood of injury. “The
landlord's obligation is only to do what is reasonable under the circumstances.
The landlord need not take extraordinary measures or make unreasonable expenditures
of time and money in trying to discover hazards unless the circumstances so
warrant. When there is a potential serious danger, which is foreseeable, a
landlord should anticipate the danger and conduct a reasonable inspection
before passing possession to the tenant. However, if no such inspection is
warranted, the landlord has no such obligation.” (Mora v. Baker Commodities,
Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) 
In October of 2020, prior to turning
possession of the property over to the tenant, Brimel’s agent Robert Cronyn walked
through the property. (Cronyn Decl. ¶ 5; Cronyn Depo. pp. 53:21-55:12.) The
parties do not dispute that at that time, the ceiling in the office space was
intact and Brimel had no knowledge or reports that anyone had broken into the
property. (Cronyn Decl. ¶¶ 5-6; Cronyn Depo. pp. 54:25-55:2; UMF 8) Thus, it is
undisputed that Brimel had no actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition.
Accordingly, Brimel has met its initial
burden to make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material
fact regarding notice of a dangerous condition. The burden now shifts to
Norguard to establish a triable issue of fact.  
Norguard argues that Brimel did not
adequately inspect the property to make the premises reasonably safe from
dangerous conditions. Norguard argues that during the October 2020 inspection,
Cronyn states that he was “not really looking for dangerous conditions,” but
walking through the building to make sure “everything looked presentable.”  (Cronyn Depo. pp. 20:7-10, 55:19-24.) Cronyn
states that during his inspection, he did not use the drop-down ladder in the
office space to inspect the area above the ceiling. (Cronyn Depo. pp. 55:10-12,
82:20-83:4, 83:8-14.) 
Norguard cites to Mora v. Baker
Commodities in which the court found genuine issues of material fact
precluded summary judgment of a worker’s negligence claim against a property
owner because the evidence presented did not show that the property owner
conducted an inspection that was reasonable under the circumstances (Mora,
supra, 210 Cal.App.3d at 782.) The court reversed summary judgment because
“[t]he affidavits presented did not show that at the time the [] lease was executed
there was an inspection, nor were facts presented bearing upon the necessity
for an inspection, nor facts which showed that any inspection conducted was
reasonable under the circumstances.” (Id. at 782.) 
Here, although Brimel’s agent
Cronyn, stated in his declaration at paragraph 5 that he inspected the property
“for dangerous conditions” prior to passing possession of the space to the
tenant, in his deposition taken after the motion was filed he qualified
the term “inspection”  considerably and
testified “I’m not really looking for dangerous conditions, but I do a
walk-through to make sure that, you know, it’s going to lease as well as
possible.” (Depo. of Cronyn attached as Exhibit B to Compendium of Evidence in Opposition
to the Motion at pp. 18:22 – 19:1, and p. 20:2-10; AMF 6.) 
Moreover, there was evidence that Cronyn
was aware of the ladder that led to the drop ceiling and that he never
inspected that area. (AMF 16-17.) Whether there was any way of knowing the
homeless persons would enter the property above the drop ceiling, the existence
of the drop ladder certainly presents a reasonable possibility that a tenant
might access that area, potentially giving rise to a duty to inspect an area that
reasonably could be accessed by the tenant or its invitees. Thus, there is a
triable issue of fact as to whether the walk-through in fact constituted an
appropriate inspection for hazards of this particular property. 
Thus, Norguard has established a
triable issue of material fact.  
Accordingly, Brimel’s motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.
III. Conclusion
Defendant Brimel LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.