  Case Number:  22STCV30713    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
September 20, 2022, Plaintiff Jack Feresten (“Plaintiff”), by and through his
guardian ad litem Michael Feresten, filed this action against Defendants
Palisades Village Center Associates, LLC (“Palisades”), Academy of Technology
Art and Music LLC (“Academy”), Anthony Wamble (“Wamble”), Brett Sutherlin,
individually and as trustee of the
Sutherlin Family Trust (“Brett Sutherlin”), Karen Sutherlin, individually and
as trustee of the Sutherlin Family Trust (“Karen Sutherlin”), and Does 1-50 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
January 20, 2023, Palisades, Academy, and Wamble filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Brett Sutherlin, Karen Sutherlin, and Roes 1-20 for
indemnity and contribution. On July 18, 2023, Karen Sutherlin and Brett Sutherlin
filed an answer. On October 4, 2023, Palisades, Academy, and Wamble amended the
cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Erika Feresten (“Erika Feresten”) as
Roe 1. 
On
April 11, 2023, Brett Sutherlin and Karen Sutherlin filed an answer to Plantiff’s
complaint and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Michael Feresten
(“Michael Feresten”) and Moes 1-10 for contribution, indemnity, declaratory
relief, and negligent supervision. On May 18, 2023, Michael Feresten filed an
answer. On August 28, 2023, the Court dismissed the cross-complaint without
prejudice at the request of Brett Sutherlin and Karen Sutherlin. 
On
October 4, 2023, Palisades, Academy, and Wamble (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion
for leave to file amended answer to be heard on November 16, 2023. On November
1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 8, 2023, Moving Defendants
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants request leave to file and serve the proposed first amended answer. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse
party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be
made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On
September 20, 2020, Plaintiff fell on Defendants' property and was injured by dangerous
conditions on the property.  Defendants
negligently maintained, inspected, repaired, managed, supervised, controlled
and/or operated the property and negligently hired, trained, supervised,
controlled and/or monitored employees and agents responsible for maintenance,
inspections, repair, supervision, control and operations. 
Defendants
caused the hazardous, dangerous conditions and/or these conditions existed for
a sufficient time prior to the incident for Defendants to have corrected,
removed, and/or warned Plaintiff of the existence of conditions, which
Defendants negligently failed to do. Defendants also failed to warn Plaintiff
of the risks and dangers which Defendants created, knew about, or in the exercise
of reasonable care should have known about, and which were unknown and not
readily apparent to Plaintiff.  Defendants
had actual and/or constructive notice of the dangerous conditions. 
B.   Moving Defendants’ answer 
In
their answer, Moving Defendants denied the complaint’s allegations and asserted
affirmative defenses. 
C.   Moving Defendants’ motion to amend the answer 
Moving
Defendants seek leave to amend their answer to add express agreement/waiver as
an affirmative defense.  Moving Defendants
argue their counsel learned that Plaintiff’s mother signed a waiver provided by
Wamble and the Academy regarding Plaintiff. 
According to Moving Defendants, Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by
amendment of the answer because Plaintiff has sufficient time to conduct
discovery about the new affirmative defense. 
The proposed
affirmative defense states: “Defendants are informed and believe and, based
thereon, alleges that Plaintiff executed a waiver and release and/or otherwise
agreed to release and waive its rights to some or all of the claims asserted in
the Complaint.”  (Exh. A to Migoya Dec.) 
D.   Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion 
Plaintiff
contends that Moving Defendants have known about the waiver issue since at
least March 17, 2021, when the Academy’s insurance carrier sent a letter to
Plaintiff regarding a parent liability agreement purportedly signed by
Plaintiff’s mother in 2016.  According to
Plaintiff, Moving Defendants waived their right to assert waiver as an
affirmative defense by failing to include it in their answer and failing to explain
why they did not previously assert it. 
In
the alternative, Plaintiff asks the Court to allow only Academy and Wamble to
assert waiver as an affirmative defense because Moving Defendants do not contend in their motion that the waiver
applies to Palisades. 
E.   Analysis 
Even
if, as Plaintiff argues, Moving Defendants unreasonably delayed moving to amend,
“it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party
was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656, p.
6-193.)  Plaintiff has not asserted or
shown that allowing the amendment will delay the trial or prejudice Moving
Defendants in other ways. 
The
Court will not decide, at this stage of the case, if the alleged waiver applies
to Palisades.  The Court has not reviewed
the alleged waiver and lacks information about its terms.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶
6:644, pp. 6-189 to 6-190 [“Ordinarily, the judge will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to
amend. . . . After leave to amend is granted, the opposing party will have the
opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading”].) 
Having
considered the parties’ arguments, the Court exercises its discretion to grant
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file an amended answer filed by Defendants
Palisades Village Center Associates, LLC,
Academy of Technology Art and Music LLC, and Anthony Wamble.  Defendants Palisades Village Center
Associates, LLC, Academy of Technology Art and Music LLC, and Anthony Wamble Jose
are ordered to file and serve the amended answer within 10 days of the hearing
on the motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 