 Case Number:  24STCV26240    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-15-25 c/f 12-17-24 c/f 12-9-24 (via 12-17-24 order) a/f 1-29-25 (via 11-21-24
ex parte order)
Case
#24STCV26240
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
PREFFERENCE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Penny Perry 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants, Hallmark
Media United States, LLC, et al. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Trial Preference
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Seventy-Nine
year old Penny Perez alleges Defendants Hallmark Media United States, LLC, Lisa
Hamilton, Randy Pope, and Paul Hodgkinson, wrongful terminated Plaintiff, a
“well known casting director, producer, and director of programming” on the
basis of age and medical condition discrimination. 
 
On
October 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint for 1. Age Harassment 2. Age
Discrimination 3. Disability Harassment 4. Disability Discrimination 5. Failure
to Accommodate/Engage in the Interactive Process 6. Retaliation under FEHA 7.
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation 8. Wrongful
Termination 9. Defamation 10. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 11.
Violation of Labor Code §1102.5 12. Violation of Labor Code §98.6 13. Unfair
Business Practices. Hallmark Media United States, LLC answered the complaint on
November 120, 2024. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Evidentiary Objections to Dr.
Fishman: Overruled
The court declines to finds the
testimony of physician Dr. Fishman as expert testimony. Dr. Fishman submits the
declaration as a treating physician. “A treating physician is a percipient
expert, but that does not mean that his testimony is limited only to personal
observations. Rather, like any other expert, he may provide both fact and
opinion testimony. As the legislative history clarifies, what distinguishes the
treating physician from a retained expert is not the content of the testimony,
but the context in which he became familiar with the plaintiff's injuries that
were ultimately the subject of litigation, and which form the factual basis for
the medical opinion. The contextual nature of the inquiry is implicit in the
language of [Code Civ. Proc., 20234.210, subd. (b)] which describes a retained
expert as one ‘retained by a party for the purpose of forming and expressing an
opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in preparation for the trial of
the action.’ A treating physician is not consulted for litigation purposes, but
rather learns of the plaintiff's injuries and medical history because of the
underlying physician-patient relationship.” (Schreiber v. Estate of Kiser
(1999) 22 Cal.4th 31, 35–36.)
 
As a treating physician, not an
expert witness, the court declines to consider the foundational standard cited
for expert witnesses. (Green v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th
1363, 1369 accord Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University of Southern California
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771-772.) The court concludes the patient history
between Plaintiff and Dr. Fishman sufficiently
establishes foundation for the
opinions and conclusions of Plaintiff’s medical state for purposes of the court
to make a factual determination as to the necessity of trial preference.
 
As for the conflicting testimony,
Hallmark improperly failed to submit any “conflicting” deposition testimony for
review. A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion
or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application
must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be
open. (Id. at 2.550(c).) To grant an order sealing records, the court must
expressly find that Defendant has presented facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. Id. at
2.550(d). To establish that an overriding interest is sufficient, plaintiff
must clearly identify the interest and demonstrate “a substantial probability
that it will be prejudiced absent sealing or closure.” (Universal City Studios,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)
 
The court appreciates the privacy
protections of Plaintiff’s medical condition presumably revealed in the
Deposition of Dr. Fishman, but Hallmark still offers no proof of submission of
a motion or application for a sealing order. Defendant only presented a copy of
said unredacted proceedings on January 13, 2025. The court finds the submission
untimely in that it deprives Plaintiff of an opportunity to timely respond to
this submission even if the court considered the delivery a de facto
application. Further, other than the waived portions of the deposition
testimony directly cited by Plaintiff in the reply, the court arguably remains
barred from citing such content in the court record either way.
 
Nothing in the lack of actual
testimony prevents Hallmark from challenging the factual basis of certain
conclusions regarding treatment by specialists, though, again, the court
reviews under the treating physician standard. The court addresses the standard
of review for a preference motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 36,
subdivision (a) versus subdivision (d-e) which impacts the evidentiary
considerations and scope of review. The court also overrules the hearsay
objections based on reliance of communicated information provided by Plaintiff
as to her symptoms, supra.
 
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Perry:
Overruled. 
The declaration provides relevant
testimony as to Plaintiff’s medical condition. Plaintiff may testify as to her
own medical condition. The court finds no basis of contradictory testimony
allowing a determination as to the veracity of the statements. (See D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21-22; see also Guthrey v. State
of California (1998-1118.)
 
On December 17, 2024, the court
denied the initial motion for trial preference without prejudice. The court
denied the motion in part due to the lack of admissible evidence supporting a
finding of medical necessity, and otherwise insufficient evidence. The court
also granted Plaintiff leave to file a renewed motion, and specially set the
hearing date.
 
Plaintiff Penny Perry timely filed
the renewed motion for preference on grounds that plaintiff is 79 years old,
and suffering from medical conditions potentially prejudicing participation in
the
adjudication of the action.
Defendant Hallmark Media United States, LLC (Hallmark) in opposition challenges
the necessity of preference based on Plaintiff’s medical condition. Hallmark
disputes any purported life threatening condition following the deposition of
treating physician Dr. Fishman. Plaintiff meanwhile refuses to appear for
deposition or produce medical records. The preference motion would impose
substantial prejudice on Defendant and provide significant advantage to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff in reply reiterates the debilitating medical conditions
necessitating a “mandatory” order for preference. Plaintiff additionally
disputes the representations that Dr. Fishman in deposition undermined the
necessity of the motion through citation to deposition testimony purportedly
submitted under seal. Plaintiff also denies any prejudice to Hallmark from a
shortened trial date considering Perry’s comorbidities and physical
limitations.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36
subdivision (a) states in relevant part: “A party to a civil action who is over
70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is
such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest
in the litigation.”
 
The declaration from Plaintiff,
counsel and one treating physician, Dr. Fishman, establishes Plaintiff’s age of
79, breast cancer survivorship, afflicted with multiple sclerosis, suffering
from various cardiac and gastrointestinal conditions, immunocompromise
concerns, and obesity. [Declarations of Penny Perry, Josh Schein & Louis
Fishman, M.D.] The diagnosed medical conditions impair quality of life
functions and render Plaintiff more susceptible from a potentially life
threatening cardiac, respiratory or infectious disease event.
 
Again, the court accepts the
declaration of Fishman as a treating physician, as well as representations of
Perry regarding her own health conditions, supra. As addressed further below,
the issue is not the existence of the conditions, but the immediate threat of
demise or other impairments necessitating a shortened trial date.
 
The opposition reasonably raises
challenges regarding the quality of evidence presented as establishing the
showing of medical necessity. Consideration of the issue remains arguably
clouded by Plaintiff indisputably placing her medical condition at issue, yet
continuing to deny full access to records. Such records will continue to be the
subject matter of discovery for adjudication of the action specifically put in
issue by Plaintiff. While a potential discussion of waiver of privacy rights to
all relevant conditions looms, the urgency imposed by the motion prevents
adjudication of the subject matter for purposes of ruling on the motion.
(Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840-842; Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; California Consumer Health Care Council v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31; Patterson v.
Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 927, 930.) Further, given the availability
of sufficient evidence, the court finds no impairment caused from the lack of
further discovery. (Heda v. Superior Court (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 525, 529.) No
such consideration is demonstrably required for the court to exercise its
judgment in ruling, and, as discussed further below, the court cannot consider
prejudice to one side or another in ruling under the standard based on age and
medical condition of Plaintiff.
It remains undisputed that the
list of conditions raise the risk of mortality as well as impairment in
prosecuting the action. While the court distinguishes mortality risks from
cardio pulmonary
and infectious disease events from
the autoimmune disease flare up [Fishman Decl., ¶ 5], under the standard for
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a), not subdivision (d or e),
the court can neither impose the clear and convincing standard of evidence, nor
concern for mortality within six months. The court is also barred from
considering prejudice to Defendant(s) under this standard. (Fox v. Superior
Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 533-534; Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085-1086.)
 
Under this standard, the court
finds the specific declaration of Dr. Fishman regarding the impacts to
Plaintiff, even with the uncertainty as to a potential fatal event, complies
with the requirements for preference based on age and impairment pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a). Public policy supports a
grant of preference and erring on the side of concern for incapacity or death,
over the prejudicial screams of due process violations to the dismay of
Defendants. (Swaithes v. Superior Court, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at pp.
1085-1086.)
Upon the granting of a motion, the
court shall set a trial date no later than 120 days from the order—January 15,
2025 to May 12, 2025. The court sets its trials for Mondays, so the actual
trial date is only 117 days from the order date. The court reserves the right
to an additional 15-day continuance (18 days total), if necessary.
 
The court notes Defendants’ right
to motions for summary judgment, if sought, and cannot shorten the 81-day
filing deadline under any circumstances. (See Polibrid Coatings, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 920, 923; Mediterranean Const. Co. v.
State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 257, 262.)
 
In the meantime, the court orders
the parties to cooperate in the setting of the depositions of witnesses,
experts and parties. Depositions can occur via video or telephonic means, due
to health concerns and/or in the interests of efficiently expediting discovery
should the individual plaintiff or witness(es) require accommodation, as well.
The court also advises the parties that any extensive discovery disputes may be
referred to a referee via expedited schedule, especially given the extensive
discovery propounded by Plaintiff combined with the preference motion. The
parties may consider a referee on their own accord.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 