 Case Number:  22STCV39920    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and
Monetary Sanctions.
BACKGROUND
CHRISTINE WELLS (“Plaintiff”) brings this Unruh Act
case against FUTURA BUS NET INC. (“Defendant”), based on Defendant’s alleged
refusal to allow Plaintiff to sit in the handicapped section of its bus.
Plaintiff has filed a motion captioned as one
compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories and
sanctions. However, the memorandum of points and authorities seeks an order
compelling initial responses to Plaintiff’s second set of special
interrogatories (not further responses). Defendant opposes the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A motion to compel initial discovery responses
need only show that discovery was properly served on the opposing party, the
time to respond expired, and no response was served.  Leach v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06; Code Civ. Proc., §§2030.290. A motion to compel initial
discovery responses need not show meeting and conferring and need not be
accompanied by a separate statement. Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal. App. 4th 390, 404.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff and Defendant agree that Defendant has not
served responses to Plaintiff’s second set of special interrogatories. Plaintiff
has adequately shown that she served the interrogatories and to date, has not received
a response. Defendant’s suggestion that it is absolved from serving responses
to the interrogatories because the second set of interrogatories is largely
duplicative of the first set of interrogatories is unconvincing. The sets
differentiate between requesting information regarding a “bus” versus a
“shuttle” and so are not actually duplicative. And any objection that the
requests are unreasonably duplicative or unduly burdensome would not be
well-taken because Defendant could easily adopt its responses to set one to
respond to set two. 
To the extent Plaintiff also seeks an order for further
responses to her first set of special interrogatories, such a request fails because
she did not file a separate statement. In any event, the responses to the first
set of interrogatories are compliant. Two interrogatories contain incomplete
sentences, and so Defendant properly indicated that uncertainty is involved. Second,
Defendant substantively responded to the remaining interrogatories, after stating
that they are inapplicable because no “bus” was involved. 
As for sanctions, considering the unusually debatable
aspects of this matter, the Court imposes no monetary sanctions, it finding
substantial justification for Defendant’s position.
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted as to compelling initial
responses to special interrogatories, set two. The request for sanctions is
denied. On or before 4/12/24, Defendant shall serve initial verified responses to
the second set of special interrogatories, without objections. 