  Case Number:  22STCV35832    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Defendant to Continue Trial and All Related Dates.
 
BACKGROUND
ALEXANDER O'BRIEN (“Plaintiff”) brings this employment
discrimination case against his former employer KALTEC ELECTRONICS, INC. (“Defendant”).
 
On 2/26/24, the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte
application to continue the current 5/6/24 trial date. Defendant now brings a
motion requesting a six-month continuance of trial and related dates. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Continuances of trial are disfavored and may be
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause. Cal Rules of Ct 3.1332(c).
Circumstances that may show good cause include the substitution of trial
counsel if there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice, or a party’s excused inability to obtain essential
discovery. Cal Rules of Ct 3.1332(c)(4), (6). In ruling on a motion to continue
the trial, the court should consider various factors, including the proximity
of the trial date, whether there was any previous continuance, the length of
the requested continuance, the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer
as a result of a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance. Cal Rules of Ct 3.1332(d)(1)-(3), (5), (10). Judges have
broad discretion in deciding whether to grant a request for a continuance. People
v. Caro (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 463, 499. 
ANALYSIS
            Substitution
of Lead Counsel
Defendant argues that good cause exists for a continuance
because the attorney handling the case abruptly departed in February 2024. The
same firm has represented Defendant since this case was filed in 2022. The
attorney who departed in February 2024 had only served as Defendant’s trial
counsel in this case since July 2023. The fact that new attorneys at the same
firm – with ready access to the work product amassed during this case -- are
now working on Defendant’s case does not, taken alone, constitute good cause to
continue the trial date.  
Discovery
Defendant also argues good cause exists for a
continuance because it has been unable to obtain Plaintiff’s mental health
records to adequately prepare for Plaintiff’s deposition and IME. Continuances
of trial beyond deadlines of case management rules are required where a party
needs time to conduct discovery, and where there is good cause. Polibrid
Coatings, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 920, 923-24 (“We think it
plain that in a case where a litigant is brought into litigation after 14/24ths
of the time to litigate it has passed, these factors would dictate at least
enough time for that party to reasonably complete discovery and bring a summary
judgment motion.”).
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s attorneys
unjustifiably delayed discovery and Defendant could have completed the discovery
timely. Perhaps defense counsel could have sought discovery earlier, but Defendant’s
current attorneys have made an adequate showing that they have taken all
reasonable steps to obtain the needed medical records, schedule the IME, and
pursue additional discovery.  It is clear
from the parties’ papers and attached communications that discovery (including
expert discovery) is not complete. Given these circumstances, the Court finds
good cause to continue the trial to permit the parties to complete discovery. 
            Other
Factors Militate in Favor of Continuance
The Court agrees with Defendant that the other circumstances
laid out in Rule of Court 3.1332(d) militate in favor of a brief continuance. The
requested continuance of six months is relatively short and neither side has
requested a continuance before. Neither side will suffer prejudice as a result a
short continuance, rather, it will ensure that the parties have completed
discovery and can try the case on its merits. The recent mediation did not
result in a settlement. A short six-month continuance will enable the parties
to revisit settlement talks later while also keeping the parties focused on the
urgency of doing so, because six months will be here in no time. 
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted. The Court will set a new trial date
in November 2024 in consultation with the parties at the hearing. The motion
and discovery cutoff dates shall be calculated in relation to the continued
trial date.