 Case Number:  22STCV24086    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



POURANDOKHT POURAT,  
 
  
         vs.
 
SHAHRAM MOUSSAZADEH. 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV24086
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 29, 2024



 
Cross-Defendant Shahram Moussazadeh’s unopposed
motion to strike the
Cross-Complaint and First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by pro per
Cross-Complainant Hormoz Pourat is granted.
 
Cross-Defendant Shahram Moussazadeh (“Moussazadeh”)
(“Cross-Defendant”) moves unopposed against pro
per Cross-Complainant Hormoz Pourat (“Hormoz”) (“Cross-Complainant”) to
strike the Cross-complaint (“Hormoz CC”) and first amended cross-complaint (“Hormoz
FACC”) alleged against him on the basis Hormoz is a defaulted party and has no
standing to file a cross-complaint. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §435.)
 
Background
On
July 26, 2022, Plaintiff Pourandokht Pourat (“Pourandokht”) filed her initial
complaint (“Complaint”) in this action against Moussazadeh.
On
January 3, 2023, Moussazadeh filed a cross-complaint (“Moussazadeh CC”) against
Pourandokht, Hormoz, and Soleila Pourat (“Soleila”).  On March 8, 2023, this Court entered defaults
against Hormoz and Soleila.
On
April 11, 2023, Hormoz filed his
initial cross-complaint against Moussazadeh.  On July 5, 2023, Hormoz filed his FACC
against Moussazadeh and Moussazadeh’s attorney, Robert Gentino (“Gentino”),
alleging seven causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2) Uniform Voidable
Transactions Act, (3) breach of oral contract, (4) intentional
misrepresentation, (5) financial elder abuse, (6) quiet title, and (7) an
unspecified tort alleged against Gentino.
On October 24, 2023, this Court granted
Gentino’s special motion to strike (“anti-SLAPP motion”) the FACC’s single
cause of action against Gentino. 
(10/24/23 Minute Order.)
On October 24, 2023, Moussazadeh filed the
instant motion. As of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
Motion to Strike
           Legal Standard
A
motion to strike can be used to reach defects in or objections to pleadings
that are not challengeable by demurrer.  Complaints,
cross-complaints, answers and demurrers are all subject to a motion to strike.  (C.C.P. §435(a)(2).)  A motion to strike can be used to attack the
entire pleading, or any part thereof.  (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393-394 [citing text].)
A
motion to strike lies either to strike any “irrelevant, false or improper
matter inserted in any pleading,” or to strike any pleading or part thereof
“not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time
limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”  (C.C.P. §435(b)(1).)
“A
motion to strike, as specified in this section, may be made as part of a motion
pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (i) of Section
438.”  (C.C.P. §435(e).)
“If
an amended pleading is filed and the moving party contends that pleading is
filed after the time to file an amended pleading has expired or that the
pleading is in violation of the court’s prior ruling on the motion, then that
party shall move to strike the pleading and enter judgment in its favor.”  (C.C.P. §438(i)(1)(A).)
 
           Discussion
           Moussazadeh’s motion to strike the
Hormoz CC and FACC is granted on the basis default was entered against Hormoz
before he filed these pleadings.  
Hormoz
was not an original party to this action and became a party to this action only
as a Cross-Defendant to the Moussazadeh CC. 
Moussazadeh entered default against Hormoz on the Moussazadeh CC in
March 2023.
Entry
of defendant’s default instantaneously cuts off its right to appear in the
action. The defendant is “out of court.” Therefore, the defendant has no right
to participate in the proceedings until either (a) its default is set aside (in
which event, it may respond to the complaint), or (b) a default judgment is
entered (in which event, it may appeal).  (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault,
Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.)
Here,
Hormoz’s past motions to set aside the default were denied without prejudice and
he remains in default.  (See 10/13/23
Minute Order; 2/7/24 Minute Order.)
Accordingly,
this Court grants Moussazadeh’s motion to strike Hormoz’s Cross-Complaint and
First Amended Cross-Complaint alleged against Moussazadeh as “not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
 
Conclusion
Moussazadeh’s unopposed
motion to strike Hormoz’s Cross-Complaint and First Amended Cross-Complaint is
granted.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  April _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  