  Case Number:  23GDCV02700    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER RE DEFENDANT RUIZ'S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION
           Plaintiffs Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane
Doe K.C. 1 (collectively, Plaintiffs) allege that Defendants Gloria de Los
Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi, Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka
Sergio Andrade, and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and Mary
Raquenel engaged in sexual abuse, sexual battery, assault, molestation, and abuse
against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants, along with Defendants
Gloria de Los Angeles Ruiz Arredondo Rodriguez aka Gloria Ruiz Arredondo (Ruiz)
and TelevisaUnivision, Inc., acted as individuals and through entities,
including Conexiones Americanas Corporation and Magical Image Entertainment,
Inc., to perpetuate and cover up the abuse.
 
          Plaintiffs filed the initial complaint on December 29,
2023, and filed a first amended complaint on April 16, 2024.
 
          Ruiz filed this motion to quash service of summons on July
29, 2024, along with a declaration.
 
          Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion on September
16, 2024. Ruiz filed a reply to the opposition on September 30, 2024.
 
          Ruiz’s motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.
 
II.      EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
          Ruiz’s Objections to Menzies Declaration
The following objections are overruled:
4
 
The following objections are
sustained: 3, 5
 
          Ruiz’s Objections to Jane Doe K.C. 1 Declaration
The following objections are
overruled: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
 
The following objections are
sustained: 8
 
          Ruiz’s Objections to Jane Doe A.H. 2 Declaration
The following objections are
overruled: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11
 
The following objections are
sustained: N/A
 
          Ruiz’s Objections to Jane Doe 3 Declaration
The following objections are
overruled: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13
 
The following objections are
sustained: N/A
 
Objections numbered 10, 11,
14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 concern redacted material and cannot be ruled on.
 
          Ruiz’s Objections to Jane Doe 4 Declaration
The following objections are
overruled: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19
 
The following objections are
sustained: N/A
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1)
provides that a defendant, on or before the last day to plead, may file a
motion to quash service of the summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.
 
          California’s “long-arm” statute provides for jurisdiction
“on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.” (Code Civ. Proc. §410.10.)
 
          The possible bases for jurisdiction in this state are:
          (1) Physical
presence in the forum when served, aka “gotcha” jurisdiction (Burnham v.
Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 612.);
          (2) Domicile in the forum state (Milliken v. Meyer
(1940) 311 U.S. 457, 462.); 
          (3) General appearance in the action (Code Civ. Proc.
§410.50(a).); 
          (4)
Contractual consent/forum selection clause (National Equipment Rental, Ltd.
v. Szukhent (1964) 375 U.S. 311, 315-316.); or,
          (5)
Minimum contacts. (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945)
326 U.S. 310, 316; Burger King v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 475.)
 
The
extent to which a California court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a
defendant depends on the nature and quality of defendant’s “contacts” with the
state.¿ U.S. Supreme Court decisions recognize two types of jurisdiction: (1)
“general” and (2) “specific.” (See¿Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v.
Sup.Ct. of Calif., San Francisco County¿(2017) 582 U.S. 255, 262.)¿ 
 
General
jurisdiction requires¿“substantial . . . continuous and¿systematic” contacts¿with
California, i.e., the defendant’s contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging
that they take the place of a physical presence¿in the state.  (Vons Companies Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 16 Cal.4th 434, 452.) 
Specific jurisdiction exists where contacts are insufficient for¿general
jurisdiction, but the contact is related to the cause of action presented. (Epic
Communications, Inc. v. Richwave Technology, Inc.¿(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th
314, 327.) There must be some connection between the forum and the underlying
cause of action, “principally, [an] activity or an occurrence that takes place
in the forum State.” Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown
(2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919. “When there is no such connection, specific
jurisdiction is lacking regardless of the extent of a defendant's unconnected
activities in the State.” (Bristol-Myers, 582 U.S. at p. 264.) A court
may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: “(1)
the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits;
(2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts
with the forum, and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with fair play and substantial justice.” (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.)
 
Although
the defendant¿is the moving party on a motion to quash service of process, the
burden of proof is on the plaintiff in opposing the motion: “[W]hen
jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between
defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”
(Mihlon v. Sup.Ct. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  The burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate
by a preponderance of the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Sup.Ct.¿(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto¿(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362;¿Swenberg
v. Dmarcian, Inc.¿(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 280, 291.)
 
A
plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant may
request time to conduct discovery of jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain
its burden of proof. (Safieddine v. MBC FZ, LLC (2024) 103 Cal. App.5th
1086, 1108.) To prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional
discovery, the plaintiff has the burden to demonstrate that discovery is likely
to lead to production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. (Ibid.)
A court’s denial of a plaintiff’s request is not abuse of discretion if the
plaintiff failed to show that further discovery was likely to lead to the
production of evidence establishing jurisdiction. (Ibid.)
           
IV.     ANALYSIS
          General Jurisdiction
The
court lacks general jurisdiction over Ruiz.  She has no contacts with California
that can be characterized as systematic or continuous enough to conclude she is
“at home” in California.  At all relevant times, from the 1980’s through
to and including the present, Ruiz has been a resident of either Mexico or
Texas.  (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 4.)  She has never worked or lived in
California and has never owned any property or assets in California. 
(Ruiz Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)
 
          Specific Jurisdiction
The
court also lacks specific jurisdiction over Ruiz. Plaintiffs have asserted that
Ruiz has contacts with California, having traveled there for recording sessions
and business activities related to music production ventures, and Ruiz does not
contest this. (Opp. Mot. Quash, p. 7.) This satisfies the first prong of
specific jurisdiction, showing that Ruiz has purposefully availed herself of
forum benefits. However, Plaintiffs have not demonstrated how Ruiz’s contacts
with California relate to or give rise to their cause of action against her.
All allegations in the FAC involving Ruiz concern conduct that occurred in
Texas or Mexico, not in California. (FAC, ¶¶ 318-331.) Plaintiffs’ causes of
action arise out of sexually abusive conduct and the ensuing cover-up; they do
not arise out of Ruiz’s music production ventures, although the sexually
abusive conduct occurred during the process of record and movie production.
Plaintiffs therefore have failed to satisfy the second prong of specific
jurisdiction, having failed to show that the controversy arises out of or is
related to Ruiz’s contacts with California.
Given
this finding, the Court need not analyze the third requirement for specific
jurisdiction, i.e. whether the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with fair play and substantial justice. 
However, it is worthwhile to note that this Court does not find that
exercising personal jurisdiction over Ruiz would comport with fair play and
substantial justice.  Defendant Ruiz’s contacts
with California have been so minimal as to be almost nonexistent.  According to Plaintiff, Ruiz visited Los
Angeles twice over thirty years ago, in 1989 and 1990.  Requiring Ruiz to submit to the authority of a
California court would not comport with fair play and substantial justice.  
Jurisdictional
Discovery
Plaintiffs
request, in the alternative to denial of Ruiz’s motion to quash service of
summons, a continuance to conduct jurisdictional discovery. The court denies
this request.
 
Plaintiffs
anticipate that jurisdictional discovery will permit them to obtain further
information concerning:
 
“(1)
Additional evidence of Ruiz’s trips to California connected to Plaintiffs’
claims.
(2)
Business documents related to Excis, including contracts with record companies,
publishing companies, rights to royalties related Trevi’s albums recorded in
California, payments made to Excis and Ruiz. 
(3)
Defendants Ruiz’s involvement, interest in, and/or business relations with the
California-based promotion company, MIE;
(4)
Defendant Ruiz’s involvement, interest in, and/or business relations with
CAC;  and,
(5)
The relationships between Ruiz, Excis, and Televisa, including contracts that
were entered into between the parties, and particularly as it pertains to the
production of Trevi’s albums which were recorded in California, and the
distribution in California of Trevi-related calendars and magazines distributed
by Televisa’s subsidiary, Intermix.”
(Opp.
Mot. Quash, pp. 14 – 15.)
 
Out
of these bases for jurisdictional discovery, all but the first concern solely
the first prong of specific jurisdiction analysis and therefore are not
reasonably likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction. The first basis may concern the second prong of specific
jurisdiction analysis; however, Plaintiffs have not provided facts that would
justify a reasonable belief that additional relevant jurisdictional evidence
exists. Plaintiffs assert that jurisdictional discovery may lead to additional
evidence of Ruiz’s contacts with California, which would be insufficient to
establish personal jurisdiction over Ruiz.Plaintiffs
have therefore failed to show that jurisdictional discovery is reasonably
likely to lead to the production of evidence that would establish jurisdiction
over Ruiz.
 
V.       CONCLUSION
           
          Ruiz’s motion to quash
service of summons is GRANTED.
          
          
Dated:  October 4, 2024                                    
  
                                                                                     JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER RE DEFENDANT TUI'S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION           Plaintiffs Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane
Doe K.C. 1 (collectively, Plaintiffs) allege that Defendants Gloria de Los
Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi, Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka
Sergio Andrade, and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and Mary
Raquenel engaged in sexual abuse, sexual battery, assault, molestation, and abuse
against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants, along with Defendants
Gloria de Los Angeles Ruiz Arredondo Rodriguez aka Gloria Ruiz Arredondo and
TelevisaUnivision, Inc. (TUI), acted as individuals and through entities,
including Conexiones Americanas Corporation and Magical Image Entertainment,
Inc., to perpetuate and cover up the abuse. TUI was formed in early 2022, well after the
allegations in the complaint took place, as a result of a transaction between
Televisa and Univision. Plaintiffs allege that TUI is liable as a successor to
Televisa.           Plaintiffs filed the initial complaint on December 29,
2023, and filed a first amended complaint on April 16, 2024.           TUI filed this motion to quash service of summons on June 13,
2024, along with declarations.           Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion on
September 16, 2024. TUI filed a reply to the opposition on September 30, 2024.           TUI’s motion to quash service of summons will be CONTINUED
to a date convenient to the Court and parties for the purpose of conducting jurisdictional
discovery. II.      LEGAL
STANDARDA
defendant may be substituted for a Doe defendant named in the original
complaint if the plaintiff did not know the name or identity of the defendant
at the time of filing. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 474.) In such a case the complaint
is considered to have been brought against the defendant at the time that the
complaint was originally filed rather than at the time when the defendant is
named. (Ibid.) Failure to substitute a defendant for a Doe defendant
does not necessarily bar application of the relation back doctrine, as a
curable procedural defect. (Woo v. Sup.Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169,
177.)          Code of Civil Procedure section
418.10, subdivision (a)(1) provides that a defendant, on or before the last day
to plead, may file a motion to quash service of the summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction.           California’s “long-arm” statute provides for jurisdiction
“on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.” (Code Civ. Proc. §410.10.)           The possible bases for jurisdiction in this state are:          (1) Physical
presence in the forum when served, aka “gotcha” jurisdiction (Burnham v.
Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 612.);          (2) Domicile in the forum state (Milliken v. Meyer
(1940) 311 U.S. 457, 462.);           (3) General appearance in the action (Code Civ. Proc.
§410.50(a).);           (4)
Contractual consent/forum selection clause (National Equipment Rental, Ltd.
v. Szukhent (1964) 375 U.S. 311, 315-316.); or,          (5)
Minimum contacts. (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945)
326 U.S. 310, 316; Burger King v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 475.) The
extent to which a California court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a
defendant depends on the nature and quality of defendant’s “contacts” with the
state.¿ U.S. Supreme Court decisions recognize two types of jurisdiction: (1)
“general” and (2) “specific.” (See¿Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v.
Sup.Ct. of Calif., San Francisco County¿(2017) 582 U.S. 255, 262.)¿  General
jurisdiction requires¿“substantial . . . continuous and¿systematic” contacts¿with
California, i.e., the defendant’s contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging
that they take the place of a physical presence¿in the state.  (Vons Companies Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 16 Cal.4th 434, 452.) 
Specific jurisdiction exists where contacts are insufficient for¿general
jurisdiction, but the contact is related to the cause of action presented. (Epic
Communications, Inc. v. Richwave Technology, Inc.¿(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th
314, 327.) There must be some connection between the forum and the underlying
cause of action, “principally, [an] activity or an occurrence that takes place
in the forum State.” Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown
(2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919. “When there is no such connection, specific
jurisdiction is lacking regardless of the extent of a defendant's unconnected
activities in the State.” (Bristol-Myers, 582 U.S. at p. 264.) A court
may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: “(1)
the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits;
(2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts
with the forum, and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with fair play and substantial justice.” (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) Where
a plaintiff seeks to find purposeful availment based on agency theory, the
proper jurisdictional question is “whether the defendant has purposefully
directed its activities at the forum state by causing a separate person or
entity to engage in forum contacts.” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v. Sup.Ct.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 983.) Although
the defendant¿is the moving party on a motion to quash service of process, the
burden of proof is on the plaintiff in opposing the motion: “[W]hen
jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between
defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”
(Mihlon v. Sup.Ct. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  The burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate
by a preponderance of the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Sup.Ct.¿(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto¿(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362;¿Swenberg
v. Dmarcian, Inc.¿(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 280, 291.) A
plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant may
request time to conduct discovery of jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain
its burden of proof. (Safieddine v. MBC FZ, LLC (2024) 103 Cal. App.5th
1086, 1108.) To prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional
discovery, the plaintiff has the burden to demonstrate that discovery is likely
to lead to production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. (Ibid.)
A court’s denial of a plaintiff’s request is not abuse of discretion if the
plaintiff failed to show that further discovery was likely to lead to the
production of evidence establishing jurisdiction. (Ibid.) When
a corporation purchases all or substantially all of the assets of another
corporation, the purchaser generally does not assume the seller’s liabilities
unless “(1) there is an express or implied agreement of assumption, (2) the
transaction amounts to a consolidation or merger of the two corporations, (3)
the purchasing corporation is a mere continuation of the seller, or (4) the
transfer of assets to the purchaser is for the fraudulent purpose of escaping
liability for the seller's debts.” (Ray v. Alad Corp. (1977) 19 Cal.3d
22, 28.)           III.     ANALYSIS          Relation BackThe
court finds the complaint was timely brought against TUI. Plaintiffs failed to
properly substitute TUI as a Doe Defendant; however, the court finds that this
is a curable procedural defect and holds that noncompliance with the procedural
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 474 does not foreclose
consideration of the relation-back doctrine. Here, Plaintiffs, upon adding TUI,
altered the named Doe Defendants from “Does 8 through 50” to “Does 9 through
50,” clearly indicating an intent to substitute TUI as a Doe Defendant. Plaintiffs
were ignorant that TUI had knowledge of Andrade’s sexual abuse and only learned
it after filing the original complaint. (Menzies Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.) Plaintiffs
were also ignorant that TUI is a successor to Televisa and only learned it
after filing the original complaint. (Menzies Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiffs
have therefore satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
474. The complaint was timely brought against TUI.           Jurisdiction                    General JurisdictionThe Court
lacks general jurisdiction over TUI.  It has no contacts with the State
that can be characterized as systematic or continuous sufficient to conclude it
is “at home” in California. TUI was incorporated in Delaware and maintains
addresses in Florida and new Jersey, and all its corporate executives are based
in Florida.  (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 4, 7.) It has no employees or
presence in California. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiffs allege that TUI
is liable for Televisa’s conduct as its successor. The Court also lacks general
jurisdiction over Televisa, which was incorporated in Mexico and has or had
headquarters in Mexico. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 12.)                     Specific JurisdictionThe Court
also lacks specific jurisdiction over TUI. TUI was formed in 2022 and therefore
its contacts with California could not have directly given rise to or are related
to Plaintiffs’ cause of action. Plaintiffs have asserted that TUI, through
Televisa as its predecessor, had contacts with California because Andrade
traveled to California with Plaintiffs in order to record music, fulfilling
contractual obligations to Televisa. (Opp. Mot. Quash, pp. 6-7.) This is
insufficient to establish that Televisa purposefully availed itself of the
benefits of being in California or created a substantial connection with
California because Plaintiffs have not alleged or shown facts demonstrating
that Televisa requested, directed, or otherwise caused Andrade to travel to
California for any purpose. However, Plaintiffs have also asserted that TUI,
through Televisa as its predecessor, had contacts with California because it
was involved in organizing and promoting contracts for the Trevi musical group
under its contract with Trevi, including at least one concert in California.
(FAC, ¶¶ 342-346.) This is sufficient to satisfy the first prong of specific
jurisdiction, showing that TUI has purposefully availed itself of forum
benefits. However,
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated how Televisa’s contacts with California give
rise to Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiffs have not alleged that Televisa engaged
in any cover-up activities or otherwise engaged in conduct underlying
Plaintiffs’ cause of action while in California. Plaintiffs’ causes of action
arise out of sexually abusive conduct and the ensuing cover-up; they do not
arise out of Televisa’s music production ventures, although the sexually
abusive conduct occurred during the process of record and movie production. Plaintiffs
therefore have failed to satisfy the second prong of specific jurisdiction,
having failed to show that the controversy arises out of or is related to Televisa’s
contacts with California. Because
the second requirement for specific jurisdiction is not met, the Court will not
go on to consider the third requirement. There is no basis to exercise
jurisdiction over TUI as a successor to Televisa. Successor
LiabilityThe
only information the Court has about the relationship between Televisa and TUI
is that there is some overlap in management between them. This is insufficient
to establish that TUI has inherited Televisa’s liabilities as a successor. The Court
does not have enough information to clearly determine whether TUI has inherited
Televisa’s liabilities as a successor. However, because the Court does not have
personal jurisdiction over either TUI or Televisa, this question need not be
addressed.           Jurisdictional DiscoveryPlaintiffs
request, in the alternative to denial of the motion to quash service of
summons, a continuance to conduct jurisdictional discovery. The court grants
this request.Plaintiffs anticipate that
jurisdictional discovery will permit them to obtain further information
concerning: “(1)
The details of the purchase agreement between
Televisa and Univision, including a breakdown of the assets sold and retained
by Televisa, the extent of liability Univision agreed to assume, and the value
of the Televisa assets acquired as compared to the amount paid by Univision;(2)
The nature and duration of Sergio Andrade’s employment and/or business
relations with Televisa;(3)
The relationship between Gloria Trevi and Televisa, including contracts that
were entered into between the parties, and particularly as it pertains to the
production of Trevi’s albums which were recorded in California.”(Opp.
Mot. Quash, pp. 11-12.) These
bases for jurisdictional discovery are reasonably likely to lead to the
production of evidence that would establish jurisdiction over TUI. Plaintiffs
have clearly and specifically described the discovery that they seek to conduct.
These bases for jurisdictional discovery are likely to lead to the production
of relevant information concerning whether Televisa’s conduct in California
relates to Plaintiffs’ cause of action as well as to whether TUI inherited
Televisa’s liabilities.  IV.     CONCLUSION          TUI’s motion to quash service of summons will be CONTINUED
to a date convenient to the Court and parties for the purpose of conducting jurisdictional
discovery.           Dated:  October 4, 2024                                                                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES          JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                     
                                                            