  Case Number:  23VECV01606    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Michael Yoakum,
        
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Arrowhead Financial Group, et al.
 
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
23VECV01606           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Leave
  to Amend the First Amended Complaint
 
 
 
 



 
I. BACKGROUND
On December 31, 2012, defendants
Michael Henschel (“Henschel”), J. Velasquez a/k/a Carlos Velasquez
(“Velasquez”), Todd J. Schellbach (“Schellbach”), and Camerina Islas (“Islas”
and, together with Henschel, Velasquez, and Schellbach, “Defendants”) created
an irrevocable trust, defendant Arrowhead Financial Group Trust (“Arrowhead”).
(FAC p. 4.) On January 1, 2015, Defendants created a trust called the Orion
Trust. (Ibid.) Defendants persuaded plaintiff Michael Yoakum
(“Plaintiff”), a senior, to execute and record a deed of trust with assignment
of rents, which is recorded as instrument no. 20122035812. (Ibid.) On
December 31, 2012, Defendants created a second deed of trust with assignment of
rents, which is recorded as instrument no. 2012035811. (Id. at p. 5.) On
February 28, 2012, Defendants foreclosed on a certain real property and,
although a trustee sale never took place, recorded a trustee’s deed upon sale
as instrument no. 20120314433. (Ibid.) Defendants executed a grant deed
for a certain real property at which Plaintiff resides and recorded it as
instrument no. 20150060515. (Ibid.) All of these deeds and instruments
were recorded without the authorization, consent, or ratification of Plaintiff.
(Id. at p. 6.) Defendants have been convicted of committing similar real
estate frauds in California and other states. (Ibid.)
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff
initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes
of action for (1) cancellation of instrument pursuant to Civil Code Sec. 3412,
(2) elder financial abuse, and (3) revoke and terminate an irrevocable trust
procured through fraud in factum pursuant to Probate Code Sec. 15403.
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff
amended the Complaint by filing an amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleging the
same causes of action.
 
On January 11, 2024, defendants Arrowhead,
Schellbach, and Henschel demurred to the FAC on the grounds that the claims
therein are barred by the statute of limitations, that the allegations therein
are vague and ambiguous, and that the FAC does not plead fraud with the
requisite specificity. (Demurrer p. 1.)
 
On January 29, 2024, a case
management conference was held, at which Plaintiff determined he wanted to
amend the FAC and the court therefore scheduled this hearing on the Motion.
(Minute Order 01/29/2024 p. 1; Motion p. 6.) 
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion (the “Motion”) for leave to amend the FAC and to file
a second amended complaint (the proposed “SAC”). Defendants have not filed any
opposition thereto.
 
II.
THE MOTION
 
Plaintiff explains that the purpose
of the SAC is primarily to plead new theories of liability based on facts
previously pled and to join additional parties with interests in the real
properties at issue. (Motion pp. 6–7.) Plaintiff categorizes the proposed
amendments as either (1) non-substantive clerical corrections, (2) the addition
of Highland Associates, L.P. as an additional plaintiff, (3) the addition of
new title documents and clarification of the same along with clarification of
existing causes of action, (4) the addition of new causes of action based on
facts previously pled, or (5) the addition of new prayers for relief based on
the new causes of action. (Id. at pp. 7–8.)
 
Plaintiff argues that leave to
amend pleadings should be liberally granted except where an unreasonable delay
in such amendment would cause prejudice to the other party. (Id. at pp.
8–9.) Plaintiff contends that leave to amend is timely sought here and that
Defendants will not be prejudiced by such leave because no trial date has been
set. (Id. at pp. 9–10.) Plaintiff argues that it is permissible for an
amendment to a pleading to expand the scope of litigation so long as discovery
is ongoing. (Id. at pp. 10–11.) Finally, Plaintiff seeks leave to add Highland
Associates, L.P. as an additional plaintiff because it has an interest in one
of the real properties involved in this case. (Id. at pp. 7, 11.)
 
III.
ANALYSIS
 
“The court may…, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) “A trial court has wide discretion to allow the amendment
of pleadings, and generally courts will liberally allow amendments at any
stage of the proceeding.” (Falcon v. Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1280.) “The policy favoring amendment is so strong that
it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) “Time and
knowledge are important factors to be considered when granting or denying
a motion to amend.” (Stockton v. Ortiz (1975) 47
Cal.App.3d 183, 194.) “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the
refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a
meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but
an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los
Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) A court may grant leave to
amend a pleading to add new parties. (See People By and Through Dept. of
Public Works v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.) A court may also
grant leave to amend to add new causes of action, except an amendment may not
be permitted where “an attempt is made to state facts which give rise to a
wholly distinct and different legal obligation against the defendant” and “a
change is made in the liability sought to be enforced against the defendant.” (Klopstock
v. Superior Court in and for the City and County of San Francisco (1941) 17
Cal.2d 13, 20.)
 
Here, a trial date has not yet been
set and Plaintiff brings the Motion after the filing of a demurrer. This case
remains in an early stage of litigation, and we do not believe that granting
the Motion will prejudice the Defendants because of any delay.
 
Plaintiff seeks to add a new party
as a plaintiff because that party has an interest in a real property of which
the FAC already challenges proper ownership. Thus, adding this party will not
substantially change the claims against Defendants and Defendants have already
been made aware of the general nature of the dispute regarding that real
property. We do not believe, therefore, that adding this party will prejudice
the Defendants.
 
Plaintiff seeks to add new title
documents related to the real properties described in the FAC. Like the above
scenario, this will not substantially change the claims against Defendants and
Defendants have already been made aware of the general nature of the dispute
regarding those real properties. We do not believe, therefore, that adding
these title documents will prejudice Defendants.
 
Plaintiff also seeks to add new
theories of liability, quiet title and constructive trust, based on the same
set of facts already pled in the FAC. This, similarly, is permissible because these
claims, which arise from the general facts already pled will not “give rise to
a wholly distinct and different legal obligation” against Defendants.
 
This court has broad discretion to
liberally grant leave to amend so long as such amendment does not prejudice the
other party. We find that no prejudice to the other party will result from the
proposed amendments in this case.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the
Motion. [TENTATIVE]
 
  Dated:             March
21, 2024                                    ___________________________                                                                                                                                                                                          Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                Judge 