  Case Number:  22PSCV00507    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Herbert
Hall, et al. v. Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, et al. 
Defendants’
Motion for Protective Order Against Notices of Depositions of Apex Corporate Employees 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendants’ motion for
protective order. The Court GRANTS the motion as to the depositions of Andrew
Coelho, Anja Wells, and Denise Falco. Andrew Coelho, Anja Wells, and Denise
Falco do not need to comply with Plaintiffs’ notices of deposition. The Court
DENIES the motion as to the depositions of Patty Essman and Wendy Sekel. Patty
Essman and Wendy Sekel must make themselves available for deposition within 10
days of the Court’s order. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an elder abuse case. On May 27, 2022, plaintiffs Herbert
Hall, by and through his successor-in-interest, Carol Lucille Hall, Carol
Lucille Hall, and Deborah Dunn (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action
against defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise Development, Inc.,
Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc., Welltower Opco Group, LLC, Sunrise Senior
Living Management, Inc., Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Does 1
through 250, alleging causes of action for elder abuse/neglect, negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision & retention, and wrongful death. On August 1,
2022, Plaintiffs filed a Doe amendment naming Welltower, Inc. as a defendant. On
July 26, 2023, Sunrise Development, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc.,
Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Welltower, Inc. were dismissed from
this action. 
On October 15, 2024, Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC,
Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., and Welltower Opco Group, LLC
(collectively, Defendants) moved for a protective order against notices of
depositions of apex corporate employees. On October 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
opposed the motion. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a
motion for protective order by a party or other affected person. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).) 
            “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUE 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiffs’ opposition memorandum is 13 pages long, but
contains no table of authorities or table of contents as required under Rule
3.1113, subdivision (f), of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (f).) The Court will still consider Plaintiffs’
opposition, but admonishes Plaintiffs to comply with the requirements of the
California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION 
            Meet and
Confer 
            The Court finds
Defendants’ efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Tramontano Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.
6.) The Court does request, however, that the parties meet and confer in
person, telephonically, or by video conference going forward. (Dept. 6
Courtroom Information, p. 2 [“Parties are required to meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference before filing any motion”].) 
            Summary of
Arguments 
            Defendants seek a
protective order preventing the taking of depositions of individuals Andrew
Coehlo, Anja Wells, Denise Falco (Falco), Patty Essman (Essman), and Wendy
Sekel (Sekel), on the grounds that these individuals are apex corporate
employees with no personal knowledge regarding Mr. Hall or Mr. Hall’s residency.
Defendants contend these depositions are not relevant to Plaintiffs’ causes of
action and are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, as these individuals are high-level apex corporate persons who work
at the corporate office in McLean, Virginia. Defendants contend these
individuals have no direct bearing on the operations or staffing at the
facility in question. Defendants contend Plaintiffs have not provided any
evidence that these individuals possess personal knowledge of the facts or
issues involved in this litigation. Defendants contend Plaintiffs have already
deposed the individuals who actually provided care to Mr. Hall. Defendants
further contend the nature of these individuals’ jobs and responsibilities
implicate the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine. 
            In opposition,
Plaintiffs contend Essman, Falco, and Sekel have direct involvement in this
matter, thus warranting their depositions. Plaintiffs contend Patty Essman is
the regional director of resident care at Defendants’ Sunrise facility and that
Essman was directly involved in the investigation by the California Department
of Social Services into the death of Mr. Hall at the Sunrise facility.
Plaintiffs contend Falco is the VP of operations at the Sunrise facility, and
that Sekel verified discovery in this case on behalf of Defendant Sunrise
Senior Living, LLC. Plaintiffs contend their complaint alleges corporate
officers made decisions affecting the ability of the front-line staff to
deliver care and that the testimonies of Essman, Sekel, and Falco are relevant
to the issue of ratification for an elder abuse cause of action, thus
warranting these depositions. 
Plaintiffs contend
these depositions are necessary to meet the legislative intent of the Elder
Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act and to prove punitive damages.
Plaintiffs further contend the desired testimony from these depositions relates
to corporate oversight, not knowledge of Mr. Hall’s condition or lack thereof,
which purportedly contributed to the poor care Mr. Hall received. Plaintiffs
also contend California’s liberal approach to discovery means the Court should
construe any doubts in favor of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs contend Defendants’
objections based on Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1282 are unfounded because the proposed deponents in this case were
involved with the California Department of Social Services investigation,
signed discovery answers, and have relevant information relevant to the issue
of punitive damages. Plaintiffs also contend that Defendants’ suggestion of
written discovery as a less intrusive means is disingenuous given that trial is
on November 12, 2024. Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions for Defendants having
brought this motion. 
            Analysis 
            “[I]t amounts to an abuse of discretion to withhold a
protective order when a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president, or
corporate officer at the apex of the corporate hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication
of the officer's personal knowledge of the case and absent exhaustion of less
intrusive discovery methods.” (Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Superior Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287 (Liberty Mutual).) 
The Court finds that Defendants are
entitled to a protective order, but only in part. Plaintiffs indicate in their
opposition that they do not intend to depose Andrew Coelho or Anja Wells.
(Opp., p. 1 fn. 1.) Thus, the Court will GRANT
the motion for protective order as to Andrew Coelho and Anja Wells. 
With respect to Falco, it appears to the Court that
Falco meets the definition of an apex employee, as Falco is purportedly the
Senior Vice President of Operations for Defendant Sunrise Senior Living
Management, Inc. (Falco Decl., ¶ 1; see Liberty Mutual, supra, 10
Cal.App.4th at p. 1287.) As such, it is incumbent upon Plaintiffs to
demonstrate that Falco has unique or superior personal knowledge of this matter
that cannot be obtained from other sources. (Id. at p. 1289) Plaintiffs
have not presented evidence demonstrating such personal knowledge, but instead seem
to simply assume Falco “certainly has some knowledge of this incident, or
certainly should have some knowledge.” (Opp., 9:10-14.) This is insufficient. Plaintiffs
also did not show that they exhausted less intrusive discovery methods. This
case has been pending since May of 2022. The fact that the trial date is
November 12, 2024 does not excuse Plaintiffs’ failure to conduct written
discovery regarding Falco’s knowledge or involvement. For these reasons, the
Court will GRANT the motion for protective order as to Falco. 
With respect to Essman and Sekel, the Court finds that
Plaintiffs presented sufficient evidence demonstrating Essman and Sekel have
personal knowledge regarding this matter to justify their depositions, even if
they are apex employees. The facility evaluation report from the California
Department of Social Services indicates that Essman was involved in its investigation
into Mr. Hall’s death. (Kruid Decl., Ex. A.) Essman acknowledges having been
involved in that investigation. (Essman Decl., ¶ 10.) Moreover, Sekel verified
discovery responses on behalf of Sunrise Senior Living, LLC. Thus, Sekel has
some knowledge regarding this matter, even if that knowledge is of Sunrise
Senior Living, LLC’s lack of involvement. (Kruid Decl., Ex. B; Sekel Decl., ¶¶
5-12.) Plaintiffs are entitled to depose Sekel regarding the incident and the
verified discovery responses. Accordingly, the Court will DENY the motion for
protective order as to Essman and Sekel. 
The Court also DENIES Plaintiffs’ requests for
sanctions. First, Plaintiffs did not identify the parties against whom the
sanctions are sought in their opposition. (Opp., 12:10-21.) Plaintiffs also did
not specify what kind of sanctions they wanted imposed. (Opp., 12:10-21.) Requests
for sanctions must identify the parties against whom the sanctions are sought,
as well as the type of sanctions sought, including the amount when monetary
sanctions are requested. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) Second, given that the
Court is granting Defendants’ motion as to three of the five proposed
deponents, the Court finds Defendants acted with substantial justification in
bringing this motion. (Id., §§ 2017.020, subd. (b), 2025.420, subd.
(h).) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendants’ motion for
protective order. The Court GRANTS the motion as to the depositions of Andrew
Coelho, Anja Wells, and Denise Falco. Andrew Coelho, Anja Wells, and Denise
Falco do not need to comply with Plaintiffs’ notices of deposition. The Court
DENIES the motion as to the depositions of Patty Essman and Wendy Sekel. Patty
Essman and Wendy Sekel must make themselves available for deposition within 10
days of the Court’s order. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.