  Case Number:  23SMCV04468    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  205     Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   A&M ENGINEERING, INC.,    Plaintiff, v.  CHRISTOPHER KLEIN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04468     Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:    PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATIONS FOR     WRIT OF ATTACHMENT      BACKGROUND This action arises from a breach of promissory notes.  Plaintiff A&M Engineering Inc. made three short-term loans to two Defendants, Global Automotive Solutions LLC (“GAS”) and GAS’s successor-in-interest, Stelaro LLC (“Stelaro”).  The loans total $14 million, only $1 million of which Plaintiff claims has been repaid.  The loans were purportedly used to buy cars in Mexico which were re-sold for a profit in other countries.   Defendant Christopher Klein served as the CEO of GAS and Stelaro.  Defendant Alondra Group, LLC is the sole shareholder of Stelaro.  Plaintiff has sued other corporate defendants who it claims are the alter egos of Klein, including Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC (“CKE”), Executive Auto Rentals, LLC (“EAR”), and Luxury Lift, LLC (“Luxury”) (together with Alondra, the “Alter Ego Defendants”).  Plaintiff has also sued Instant Infosystems, Inc. (“Instant”), an entity owned by Christopher Klein’s father, which Plaintiff claims received a fraudulent transfer.   Plaintiff filed the instant action alleging ten causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud-misrepresentation, (3) fraud-concealment, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) receiving stolen property – Penal Code § 496(a), (c); (6) fraudulent transfer – Civ. Code § 3439 et seq.; (7) breach of fiduciary duty, (8) unfair competition – Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; (9) constructive trust, and (10) unjust enrichment.   Plaintiff filed applications for right to attach orders.  On February 20, 2024, the Court denied the applications.  Plaintiff filed a petition for writ of mandate.   On April 9, 2024, the Court of Appeal issued its order and alternative writ of mandate commanding the Court to either respond to an order to show cause or “vacate your order of February 20, 2024 … and thereafter make a new and different order setting the petitions for a hearing to determine whether an attachment should issue based on the court’s evaluation of the record and the probable outcome of the litigation.”     On May 1, 2024, the Court vacated the February 20 order and set this hearing on the applications to consider the probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims.   LEGAL STANDARD “Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.010.)¿¿ The application shall be executed under oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.020.)¿¿ “The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.030.)¿¿¿ The Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court finds all of the following:¿ (1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.¿  (2) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.¿  (3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.¿  (4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.¿ CCP § 484.090.¿  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)  In determining the probable validity of a claim where the defendant makes an appearance, the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿ (See Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly Glen Music, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1120.)¿  This procedure is “similar to a bench trial.”¿ (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 76, 81.)   At the times prescribed by Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b), the defendant must be served with summons and complaint, notice of application and hearing, and the application and supporting evidence.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.040.)¿¿¿ Attachment is a drastic remedy in that it provides for the collection of a debt by seizure in advance of trial and judgment, as security for the eventual satisfaction of the judgment.  Thus, under California law, attachment is a purely statutory remedy, subject to strict construction.  (Epstein v. Abrams¿(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Instant seeks judicial notice of the first amended complaint filed in this action and the declaration of David Klein in support of Instant’s Opposition to A&M’s application for a right to attach order, writ of attachment and temporary protective order, previously filed in this action on November 29, 2023.  It is unnecessary to ask the court to take¿judicial notice of materials previously¿filed in this case.  “[A]ll that is necessary is to¿call the court’s¿attention to such papers.”  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2016) ¶ 9:53.1a).)  Accordingly, the Court denies Instant’s request for judicial notice. Plaintiff requests judicial notice of (1) the Grant Deed from Dror Alperovich and Gila Leibovitch to Christopher Klein dated July 1, 2020 for the real property known as 1315 Schuyler Road, Los Angeles, CA 90210; (2) the Deed of Trust from borrower Christopher Klein to lender OCMBC, Inc., dated September 9, 2020 secured by the real property located at 1315 Schuyler Road, Los Angeles, CA 90210, (3) the “Entity Information” page pertaining to Stelaro, LLC on the Nevada Secretary of State’s website as of December 18, 2023, (4) the “Entity Information” page pertaining to Alondra Group, LLC on the Nevada Secretary of State’s website as of December 18, 2023; (5) the Statement of Information, Limited Liability Company filed by Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC with the State of California Office of the Secretary of State on July 5, 2023; (6) the Statement of Information, Limited Liability Company filed by Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC with the State of California Office of the Secretary of State on August 31, 2021; (7) the Articles of Organization of a Limited Liability Company for Christopher Klein Enterprises LLC, filed with the Secretary of State for the State of California and dated June 26, 2015; (8) the Statement of Information, Limited Liability Company filed by Executive Auto Rentals LLC with the State of California Office of the Secretary of State on July 5, 2023; (9) the Statement of Information, Limited Liability Company filed by Executive Auto Rentals LLC with the State of California Office of the Secretary of State on July 16, 2021; (10) the Amendment to Articles of Organization of a Limited Liability Company for Executive Auto Rentals, LLC, filed with the Secretary of State for the State of California and dated January 14, 2021; (11) the Articles of Organization of a Limited Liability Company for Andares Car Rental, LLC, filed with the Secretary of State for the State of California and dated January 8, 2021; (12) the Summary for Luxury Lifts LLC found on the Colorado Secretary of State’s website on November 21, 2023; (13) the Statement of Change Changing the Registered Agent Information filed by Luxury Lifts LLC on July 6, 2023 with the Colorado Secretary of State; (14) the Articles of Organization for a Limited Liability Company filed by Luxury Lifts LLC on February 3, 2022 with the Colorado Secretary of State; (15) Defendants’ Consolidated Opposition to Ex Parte Applications for Right to Attach Orders etc., filed in this matter on October 6, 2023; (16) the Opposition of Defendants Stelaro, LLC and Alondra Group, LLC to Applications for Right to Attach Orders etc., filed in this matter on November 29, 2023; (17) Defendant Stelaro, LLC’s Answer to Unverified Complaint filed in this matter on November 17, 2023; (18) Defendant Alondra Group, LLC’s Answer to Unverified Complaint filed in this matter on November 17, 2023; (19) Order and Alternative Writ of Mandate dated April 9, 2024 in A&M Engineering, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, Court of Appeal for the Second Appellate District case number B335766l; (20) Letter dated May 2, 2024 from Leah C. Gershon, Court Counsel, to the Justices of Division Seven of the Court of Appeal for the Second Appellate District pertaining to case number B335766; (21) Brief of Defendants Stelaro, LLC and Alondra Group, LLC Regarding the Court’s Response to the Court of Appeal’s Order and Alternative Writ of Mandate dated April 24, 2024 and filed in this matter; and (22) Preliminary Opposition of Real Parties in Interest Stelaro, LLC and Alondra Group, LLC to Petition for Writ of Mandate or Other Appropriate Relief dated April 5, 2024 and filed in A&M Engineering, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County, Court of Appeal for the Second Appellate District case number B335766. The Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1 and 2 as recorded documents pertaining to ownership of property as official acts of the County of Los Angeles or as facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy. (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c), (g), (h).)  The Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 3 through 14 as enactments of the offices of the Secretaries of State of California, Nevada, and Colorado, or as official acts of those Secretaries of State. (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (b) & (c).)  The Court denies the request for judicial notice of Exhibits 15 through 22 as unnecessary as they are documents filed in this case.   EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court overrules the Alter Ego Defendants’ Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9 and sustains Objection Nos. 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, to the Declaration of Boris Beljak, Jr.  The Court sustains the Alter Ego Defendants’ Objection Nos. 20, 21, 22 to the Declaration of Anthony Brown.  The Court sustains the Alter Ego Defendants’ Objection No. 23 to the Declaration of Ryan Thomas Dunn.  The Court sustains the Alter Ego Defendants’ Objection Nos. 24 and 25 to the Declaration of Ivonne Franco.  The Court sustains Instant’s Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 to the Declaration of Boris Beljak, Jr.   ANALYSIS Basis of Attachment Section 483.010, subd. (a) provides that “except as otherwise provided by statute,” a writ of attachment can be “issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney's fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(a).)  The purpose of the “fixed and readily ascertainable” requirement is “[t]o ensure that the defendant has meaningful notice of what she is contending with, and to ensure that the attachment amount may be accurately determined in summary proceedings prior to trial.”  (Royals v. Lu (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 328, 350.) “It is a well-recognized rule of law in this state that an attachment will lie upon a cause of action for damages for a breach of contract where the damages are readily ascertainable by reference to the contract and the basis of the computation of damages appears to be reasonable and definite. The fact that the damages are unliquidated is not determinative.  But the contract sued on must furnish a standard by which the amount due may be clearly ascertained and there must exist a basis upon which the damages can be determined by proof.” (See CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 537, 541.)   Here, the amount owed is readily ascertainable, and there is a basis upon which the damages can be determined.  A&M submitted the three outstanding promissory notes, which totaled $14,000,000.  (Exs. B, C, D to Beljak Decl.)  A&M also submitted A&M bank statements showing that Stelaro had repaid A&M $1,000,000.  (Ex. E to Beljak Decl.)  The promissory notes and bank records are properly authenticated in the declaration of Boris Beljak.  (Beljak Decl. ¶¶ 12, 18, 21, 24-25.)  A&M now seeks the unpaid balance on the promissory notes of $13,000,000.  Accordingly, the notes sued on furnish a standard by which the amount due can be calculated and the amount of damages can be determined by resort to proof (i.e., the notes and the bank statements).        Probable Validity Stelaro Plaintiff has shown the probable validity of its claims against Stelaro.  There is no dispute that Stelaro borrowed $14 million from Plaintiff.  The parties dispute the amount that has been repaid, but even under Stelaro’s version of events, it owes $11,065,000 ($14 million in loans less the $2,935,000 Stelaro claims it paid).  (C. Klein Decl. ¶2; Exs. 1.)   Stelaro argues that Plaintiff is barred from recovery due to the usurious nature of its loans.  Stelaro has offered no facts to support this defense -- only the vague legal conclusion that there are “usury issues” A&M must rebut.  (Stealor Resp. Br. At 4.)  But even if a usury defense were available in this case, Plaintiff is entitled to repayment of the principal amount on the notes which is the only amount it is seeking to attach.  (Gibbo v. Berger (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 396, 403 (“When a loan is usurious, the creditor is entitled to repayment of the principal sum only.”).)  The Court has credited all the amounts allegedly paid by Stelaro to principal, as Plaintiff has not shown what portion (if any) should be credited to interest.  Accordingly, whether Plaintiff has charged usurious interest is simply not relevant to this application.    Stelaro also argues that Boris Beljak’s declaration is conclusory, and the amount due is inadequately documented.  The Court disagrees.  The declaration contains sufficient detail regarding the amounts due under the promissory notes and is supported by the notes and bank statements.  (Beljak Decl. ¶¶ 24-25.)  A declaration signed under penalty of perjury, as Beljak’s is, is sufficient to show A&M, of which Beljak is owner and CEO, disbursed the loan funds. However, while the Court concludes Plaintiff has shown the probable validity of its claims against Stelaro, the evidence is in equipoise as to the amount owed.  The parties have filed dueling declarations that are equally credible.  Accordingly, because Plaintiff bears the burden of proof, a conclusion that the evidence is equally balanced means the Court can grant the application for only the amount that is undisputed: $11,065,000.          Alter Ego Defendants Plaintiff has not shown the probable validity of its claims against the Alter Ego Defendants.  Plaintiff’s claims against these defendants are based on an alter ego theory.  Alter ego liability requires two elements: (1) “such unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the corporation and the individual no longer exist,” and (2) whether “adherence to the fiction of separate existence would, under the circumstances, promote fraud or injustice.” (Watson v. Commonwealth Ins. Co.¿(1936) 8 Cal.2d 61, 68.)¿ Factors a trial court may consider when deciding unity of interest and whether the fiction of a separate existence would promote fraud and injustice include the following: “Commingling of funds and other assets … ; the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as his own [citations]; … the failure to maintain … adequate corporate records … ; … sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by … the members of a family [citations]; … the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an individual … ; … [the] concealment of personal business activities [citations]; the use of the corporate entity to procure labor, services or merchandise for another person or entity [citations]; … or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions.” (Associated Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co.¿(1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838–840.) Alter ego is an extreme remedy, sparingly used.  (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 523, 539; see also Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 301 (“the corporate form will be disregarded only in narrowly defined circumstances and only when the ends of justice so require”); Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249 (“sound public policy dictates that imposition of alter ego liability be approached with caution”).) Plaintiff argues it has met eight Associated Vendors factors.  In doing so, Plaintiff relies heavily on the declaration of Boris Beljak, Jr., but Beljak lacks personal knowledge to attest to most (if not all) of these factors.  Plaintiff also fails to systematically show it has met the eight Associated Vendors factors as to each Alter Ego Defendant.  For example, it argues it has met the common ownership factor, but it has only shown common ownership of Stelaro and Alondra.  It claims there is a commingling of assets; but it has only shown commingling of assets between Stelaro and CKE.  It argues there is a sharing of offices, but it has only shown one defendant (Alondra) who has the same office as Stelaro.    In any event, even if Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to show unity of interest, the Court concludes it has not alleged facts to show an inequitable result would occur if the Court failed to pierce Stelaro’s corporate veil.  Without citing any evidence, Plaintiff conclusorily argues that “Klein will simply drain Stelaro of available funds (if he hasn’t already) by transferring Stelaro’s funds to the alter ego entities, leaving Stelaro without assets to satisfy a judgment against it.”  But there is no evidence that Stelaro is undercapitalized, is insolvent or cannot pay a judgment issued against it.   Accordingly, Plaintiff has not shown the probable validity of its claim against the Alter Ego Defendants, and the Court denies its application as to the Alter Ego Defendants.     Instant  Plaintiff has shown it is more likely than not that it will prevail on its sole claim for fraudulent transfer against Instant.  A fraudulent transfer under the UVTA “‘is a transfer by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.’ [Citation.]” (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648.) “Under the U[V]TA, a transfer can be invalid either because of actual fraud (Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd. (a)) or constructive fraud (id., §§ 3439.04, subd. (b), 3439.05) … .” (Mejia v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal.4th 657, 661.)  Actual fraud under the UVTA is shown when a transfer is made, or an obligation is incurred, “[w]ith actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a)(1).)  Such a transfer is voidable as to a creditor of the debtor, “whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a).)  It is not voidable, however, “against a person that took in good faith and for a reasonably equivalent value given the debtor or against any subsequent transferee or obligee.” (Civ. Code § 3439.08, subd. (a).) To determine whether there is an actual intent to defraud, the Court looks to eleven “badges of fraud.”  (Nagel v. Westen (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 740, 748.)  The factors are: “(1) Whether the transfer or obligation was to an insider. [¶] (2) Whether the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after the transfer. [¶] (3) Whether the transfer or obligation was disclosed or concealed. [¶] (4) Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with suit. [¶] (5) Whether the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets. [¶] (6) Whether the debtor absconded. [¶] (7) Whether the debtor removed or concealed assets. [¶] (8) Whether the value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred. [¶] (9) Whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred. [¶] (10) Whether the transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred. [¶] [and] [¶] (11) Whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an insider of the debtor.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (b).) “None of these factors is determinative, and no minimum or maximum number of factors is required.” (Aghaian v. Minassian, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 456; see also Filip v. Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 834.)  In Filip, the court explained the factors do not create a mathematical formula to establish actual intent. There is no minimum number of factors that must be present before the scales tip in favor of finding of actual intent to defraud.  This list of factors is meant to provide guidance to the trial court, not compel a finding one way or the other.” (Id. at p. 834.) “The presence of one or more badges of fraud does not create a presumption of fraud.  Rather, it is merely evidence from which an inference of fraudulent intent may be drawn.” (Legis. Com. com., Deering's Ann. Civil Code, § 3439.04.) Constructive fraud under the UVTA can be shown in either of two ways.  First, a transfer is constructively fraudulent where a debtor makes a transfer or incurs an obligation “[w]ithout receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and the debtor either: [¶] (A) [w]as engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction[; or] [¶] (B) [i]ntended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability to pay as they became due.” (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a)(2).)  As with actual fraud, this form of transfer is voidable as to a creditor no matter whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer. (Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a).)  Second, a transfer is constructively fraudulent when a debtor makes a transfer or incurs an obligation “without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of the transfer or obligation.” (§ 3439.05, subd. (a).) This form of transfer is voidable as to a creditor whose claim arose before the transfer was made. (Id.) Here, Stelaro made two transfers to Instant: (1) in March 2022 for $600,000 to repay Instant’s loan to CKE, and (2) monthly payments totaling over $50,000 for rent allegedly owed by Stelaro to CKE.  (D. Klein Decl. ¶¶ 3, 8.)  As to the first transfer, Plaintiff argues there is actual fraud because the transfer was made from son to father, and Stelaro received no reasonably equivalent value because it was paying Instant $600,000 to satisfy a loan made by a completely separate entity, CKE.  (D. Klein Decl. ¶ 3.)  There are also no contemporaneous documents showing that the loan was ever made such as a note or loan agreement.  Instant relies on a balance sheet as of 8/31/2020 to prove the loan was made but it is unclear when the balance sheet was created.  (Ex. A to D. Klein Decl.) In opposition, Instant argues there was no intent to hinder, delay or defraud because at the time these this transfer was made in March 2022, and through October 23, 2022, Plaintiff admits it was still receiving payments for the interest owed on its loans from Stelaro.  There is no evidence Stelaro was insolvent at the time of the transfers, or that it is in fact insolvent today.   The Court concludes that this transfer bears four badges of fraud.  First, the transfer was made to an insider; Instant and Stelaro are wholly owned by members of the same family.  (Menick v. Goldy (1955) 131 CAl.App.2d 542, 547 (“The relationship of parent and child, when coupled with other suspicious circumstances, may be sufficient to raise an inference of fraud in the conveyance.”).)  Second, the value of the consideration received by Stelaro was not reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred.  There is no dispute that the transfer here was made to repay the loan of a separate entity, CKE, and therefore, Stelaro received no consideration from the transfer.  Third, the transfer occurred shortly after Stelaro incurred a substantial debt.  Stelaro transferred $600,000 to Instant in March 2022, just seven days after A&M loaned Stelaro $5,000,000.  Fourth, while not a badge of fraud identified in Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (b), the Court finds compelling the fact that there are no contemporaneous documents supporting the existence of the loan from Instant.   While Instant is correct that most of the badges of fraud are not present here, “[t]here is no minimum number of factors that must be present before the scales tip in favor of finding of actual intent to defraud.  This list of factors is meant to provide guidance to the trial court, not compel a finding one way or the other.”  (Filip, 129 Cal.App.4th at 834.)    As to the second transfer for rental payments, there are also no contemporaneous documents supporting the existence of any liability or debt owed by Stelaro to Instant.  For example, there is no rental agreement.  The absence of this documentation coupled with the relationship between the owners of Stelaro and Instant supports a finding of an actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors.  Accordingly, the Court also concludes Plaintiff has shown it is more probable than not that it will prevail on its fraudulent transfer claim against Instant for the transfers for alleged rent payments.      Purpose and Amount of Attachment  Code of Civil Procedure section 484.090 states that the Court shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.”  Plaintiff declares that attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on Plaintiff’s claim.  (Appl. ¶ 4.)  The amount to be secured is greater than zero.  Subject Property  Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010(a) provides that “[w]here the defendant is a corporation, all corporate property for which a method of levy is provided” is subject to attachment.   Section 487.010(a) also applies to LLCs.  Defendants cite no authority to the contrary.   Exemptions Defendants have not claimed any specific exemptions.  Also, generally, corporate defendants may not claim exemptions. Reduction of Amount to be Secured  Code of Civil Procedure section 483.015(b) provides that the amount to be secured by the attachment shall be reduced by, inter alia: (2) The amount of any indebtedness of the plaintiff that the defendant has claimed in a cross-complaint filed in the action if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued.  (3) The amount of any claim of the defendant asserted as a defense in the answer pursuant to Section 431.70 if the defendant's claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued had an action been brought on the claim when it was not barred by the statute of limitations.  “[T]o sustain reduction in a writ amount, most courts require that the defendant provide enough evidence about its counterclaims and/or defenses to prove a prima facie case [for attachment against Plaintiff].”  (Ahart, California Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments and Debts, ¶ 4:64 (1998 rev.).) Defendants have not supported an attachable defense or claim for offset.    Undertaking   Instant argues that Plaintiff should be required to post an undertaking of $150,000 which represents the amount of fees Instant will incur to litigate this action to prove the attachment was wrongful.  The Court disagrees.   Code of Civil Procedure section 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of attachment.  Code of Civil Procedure section 489.220 provides, with exceptions, for an undertaking in the amount of $10,000.   However, that amount is subject to augmentation “[i]f, upon objection to the undertaking, the court determines that the probable recovery for wrongful attachment exceeds the amount of the undertaking,” in which case the court must “order the amount of the undertaking increased to the amount it determines to be the probable recovery for wrongful attachment if it is ultimately determined that the attachment was wrongful.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 489.220(b).)   An attachment is wrongful if a plaintiff does not ultimately recover judgment in the underlying action.  (Code Civ Proc. §490.010(b).)  A plaintiff’s liability for a wrongful attachment includes (1) all damages proximately caused to the defendant by the wrongful attachment, and (2) all costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, reasonably expended in defeating the attachment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §490.020(a).) There is ambiguity and uncertainty as to what the Legislature intends a trial court to consider in determining a “probable recovery for wrongful attachment” under § 489.220(b).  (N. Hollywood Marble Co. v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 683, 688.)  In N. Hollywood Marble Co., the California Court of Appeal held that the term “probable recovery” in §489.220(b) should be construed as giving the trial court discretion to consider the probability of a plaintiff prevailing in the underlying action in determining a defendant’s “probable recovery for wrongful attachment” under §489.220(b) and, accordingly, denied the defendant’s motion to increase the plaintiff's undertaking because the defendant effectively conceded the merits of the plaintiff's claim.  (Id. at 688.)  There, the plaintiff sued the defendant for breach of contract, obtained a right-to-attach order to seize inventory, equipment, and supplies of defendant’s business equal to the amount of plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, and posted the statutory undertaking. (Id. at 686.) The defendant moved to increase the plaintiff’s undertaking pursuant to §489.220(b).  (Id.)  The trial court denied the defendant’s motion, finding that “section 489.220[b] contemplates the trial court’s consideration of the probable validity of the plaintiff’s claim in the process of determining the ‘probable recovery’ of defendant for ‘wrongful attachment.’” (Id. at 688.) On appeal, the defendant argued that the trial court was precluded from considering the “probable validity of the plaintiff's claim” in determining its “probable recovery for wrongful attachment” under section 489.220(b).  (Id. at 689, 691.)  Like Instant here, the defendant in N. Hollywood Marble Co. advanced a reading of §489.220(b) that was confined to a determination of a monetary amount, i.e., a determination of the likely amount of the recovery for wrongful attachment, and whether it exceeds the amount of the posted undertaking.  (Id. at 689.)  As explained by the California Court of Appeal, under the defendant’s posited reading of §489.220, a court should simply assume the attachment is wrongful and increase the undertaking to the “total damages [or amount the] defendant competently demonstrates it is likely to sustain from the attachment.” (157 Cal. App. 3d at 689.)  “This reading, in effect, equates ‘probable recovery’ with ‘probable loss.’” (Id.) The N. Hollywood Marble Co. court rejected the defendant’s construction of §489.220(b) as contrary to the purpose of the attachment remedy. (Id. at 689-91.)  As stated by the court, the purpose of the attachment procedure is to protect an unsecured creditor plaintiff from the dissipation of the defendant’s assets before the plaintiff can obtain and enforce a judgment against the defendant, by allowing the plaintiff to attach certain assets in satisfaction of the plaintiff’s claim. (Id. at 690.) This purpose would be frustrated by the defendant’s proffered construction of §489.220, because a plaintiff would then be required to unnecessarily finance a “massive undertaking on a claim of certain merit.”  (Id. at 690.) Under the specific facts of Hollywood Marble Co., the court concluded that enforcing a literal interpretation of section 489.220 would lead to an absurd result in the case before it, because the defendant had essentially conceded the merits of plaintiff’s underlying claim. (Id. at 691.) Instead, the court adopted a more expansive construction of the term “probable recovery.”  It construed the term as giving “the trial court discretion to consider . . . the probability that plaintiff will prevail on his claim in the action” in determining a defendant’s probable recovery for wrongful attachment.  (Id. at 689, 691-92.) The court concluded that the “ambiguous language of section 489.220, subdivision (b), does not reflect a clear legislative intent to divest trial courts of [their inherent discretion] and to preclude the consideration of facts that are critical to the purpose of attachment.” (Id. at 692.) Applying the principles in N. Hollywood Marble Co., this court finds no evidence in the record to suggest that Instant is more likely to prevail than Plaintiff.  As such, the court finds that the amount of Plaintiff's undertaking should not be increased. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s applications for writ of attachment against Stelaro in the amount of $11,065,000; GRANTS as to Instant and DENIES as to Alondra, Klein, CKE, EAR and Luxury.  Plaintiff is required to make an undertaking of $10,000.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: June 28, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  



   



 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   A&M ENGINEERING, INC.,    Plaintiff, v.  CHRISTOPHER KLEIN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04468     Hearing Date:  July 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:    DEFENDANTS CHRISTOPHER KLEIN,     GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE SOLUTIONS,     LLC, STELARO, LLC, ALONDRA GROUP,          LLC, CHRISTOPHER KLEIN     ENTERPRISES, LLC, LUXURY LIFTS,     LLC AND EXECUTIVE AUTO RENTALS,     LLC’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This action arises from a breach of promissory notes.  Plaintiff A&M Engineering Inc. made three short-term loans to two Defendants, Global Automotive Solutions LLC (“GAS”) and GAS’s successor-in-interest, Stelaro LLC (“Stelaro”).  The loans total $14 million, only $1 million of which Plaintiff claims has been repaid.  The loans were purportedly used to buy cars in Mexico which were re-sold for a profit in other countries.   Defendant Christopher Klein served as the CEO of GAS and Stelaro.  Defendant Alondra Group, LLC is the sole shareholder of Stelaro.  Plaintiff has sued other corporate defendants who it claims are the alter egos of Klein, including Klein Enterprises LLC (“CKE”), Executive Auto Rentals, LLC (“EAR”), and Luxury Lift, LLC (“Luxury”).  Plaintiff has also sued Instant Infosystems, Inc. (“Instant”), a company owned by Christopher Klein’s father (David Klein), which Plaintiff claims received fraudulent transfers from Stelaro.       Plaintiff filed the instant action alleging ten causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud-misrepresentation, (3) fraud-concealment, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) receiving stolen property – Penal Code § 496(a), (c); (6) fraudulent transfer – Civ. Code § 3439 et seq.; (7) breach of fiduciary duty, (8) unfair competition – Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; (9) constructive trust, and (10) unjust enrichment.   This hearing is on Defendants Klein, GAS, Stelaro, Alondra, CKE, Luxury and EAR’s (“Moving Defendants’”) demurrer.  Moving Defendants argue that (1) the second, third and fourth causes of action fail because Plaintiff has not plead fraud with specificity; (2) the fourth cause of action fails because Plaintiff has not alleged theft or receipt of stolen property with the requisite criminal intent, and (3) the ninth and tenth causes of action fail because they are not causes of action.  No opposition has been filed.         MEET AND CONFER¿ Code Civ. Proc. §430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)¿ The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)¿ Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)¿ Moving Defendants submit the declaration of Johnny White attesting that counsel met and conferred by phone on May 13, 2024, the same date Moving Defendants filed their demurrer.  This does not satisfy the meet and confer requirements.  However, the Court cannot overrule a demurrer based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).)¿ LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.  A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)  The term uncertain means the pleading is “ambiguous and unintelligible.”  (Id.)  A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) ANALYSIS Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation Claims Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not plead fraud or negligent misrepresentation with sufficient particularity.  The Court disagrees. “The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment or nondisclosure), (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity, (c) intent to induce reliance, (d) justifiable reliance, and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The facts constituting the fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id.) The elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, ignorance of the truth, and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co. Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154.)  Negligent misrepresentation, like fraud, must be pled with specificity.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)   Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendants’ misrepresentations fall into two categories: (1) misrepresentations about GAS’s and Stelaro’s financial status and outlook and (2) misrepresentations about how Defendants would use the loan money received from Plaintiff.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶121.) As to the first category, Plaintiff alleges Klein provided him with false financial statements in the beginning of 2020, 2021 and 2022.  (FAC ¶¶  123, 124, 125.)  The financial statements falsely inflated the assets, revenues, and equity of Stelaro.  (Id.)  Plaintiff also alleges seven specific statements in other documents, primarily powerpoint and Zoom presentations that purportedly touted the financial health of Stelaro, including that it was “awarded exclusive rights by Mercedes Benz Direct Fleet Sales for Export of all Mercedes Models to Middle East, Africa, and Asia,” that it was a “profitable $60 million business with a path to double the company’s revenue to $125 million over the next 18 months,” that it sold vehicles to “125 different customers in 12 countries,” that it maintained a “procurement network of over 100 different dealerships in and across Mexico, and that in 2019, “GAS sold 602 cars, resulting in $33,107,000 total sales and a net profit of $2,689,000.”   (Id. ¶127.) As to the second category, Plaintiff alleges Klein misrepresented how he would use the proceeds of loans received from Plaintiff.  Smith “repeatedly told Beljak that GAS and STELARO would use the money [Plaintiff] loaned and invested to buy cars for resale to customers in China and other foreign countries which was the essence of GAS/STELARO business.”  (Id. ¶130.)  Plaintiff identifies four specific misrepresentations made by Klein that Defendants intended to use Plaintiff’s loans to buy cars for resale.  (Id. ¶¶132-135.)  For example, Klein sent Beljak on January 17, 2020 a powerpoint presentation which represented that GAS’s “$10 Million Deb Offering” was “To Fund Monthly Mercedes Benz Direct Distribution of 300-500 Vehicles per month.”  (Id. ¶132.) These allegations are sufficient to meet the particularity requirement for pleading fraud and negligent misrepresentation.  Moving Defendants argue that the bulk of the alleged misstatements were not made by Klein but were instead made by Scott Smith (a confessed embezzler and a CFO of both Plaintiff and Stelaro).  This argument may ultimately prevail, but it is not appropriate on a demurrer where the Court must accept Plaintiff’s allegations as true.  In any event, the Complaint alleges that Smith is an agent of the other Defendants (FAC ¶20), and on this basis, his misrepresentations may be attributed to Moving Defendants.   Moving Defendants also take issue with particular misrepresentations, arguing they are opinions and not statements of fact.  Even if that were so, false financial statements can clearly be the basis of a fraud claim.  And to the extent other misstatements identified by Plaintiff are mere puffery or “sales talk”, this still does not support a demurrer as a demurrer cannot be made to only part of a claim.  (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1562; PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1681; Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159, 163-164.) Moving Defendants further argue that the second category of misrepresentations (relating to how Plaintiff’s loans would be used) is controverted by the promissory notes which do not state how the loans would be used.  While this argument may ultimately prevail, it is a challenge to the merits of Plaintiff’s allegations which the Court cannot consider on a demurrer.  The Court may not consider any other extrinsic evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a plaintiff may have in proving his allegations.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)   Moving Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has made fundamentally inconsistent allegations regarding Klein.  The Complaint alleges that Klein revealed Mr. Smith’s embezzlement to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶ 74-75.)  If Klein was operating a Ponzi scheme, taking investor money to pay himself and family members, then, according to Defendants, it makes no sense that he would reveal Smith’s embezzlement and transmit records of it to Plaintiff.  Again, while this argument has some appeal, the Court cannot weigh the evidence on a demurrer.  (Ion Equip. Corp., 110 Cal.App.3d at 881.) In sum, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has sufficiently stated a claim for fraud and negligent misrepresentation, and the Court overrules the demurrer to the second and fourth causes of action.   Fraudulent Concealment The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of fact.  (Hambridge v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) For a cause of action for fraudulent concealment to be actionable, there generally must exist a fiduciary relationship between the parties.  (Fink v. Weisman (1933), 132 Cal.App. 724, 730.)  In addition, courts have found other circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) possession of exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (2) active concealment of a material fact from the plaintiff; or (3) when partial representations are made but a material fact is withheld.  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) “Concealment is a species of fraud, and ‘[f]raud must be pleaded with specificity.’” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878 (bold emphasis added).)  However, the standard particularity requirement is relaxed as to fraudulent concealment claims.  (See Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 (‘less particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposing party”); see also Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216- 217 (less particularity required where it appears from the nature of allegations that defendant necessarily possesses full information concerning facts in controversy).)    Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to disclose (1) they were using Plaintiff’s loans for expenses other than vehicle purchases and they were instead using the loan proceeds to pay for personal expenses (FAC ¶150), (2) Stelaro had not filed tax returns for 2019, 2020 or 2021 (FAC ¶151), (3) Stelaro was losing money on sales in Europe (FAC ¶152), (4) Stelaro was consistently falling short of its sales goals (FAC ¶153), and (5) Stelaro had negative cash flow; it lost money each year between 2019 and 2022 (FAC ¶154.)  Plaintiff further alleges Defendants had a duty to disclose these facts because they made partial representations regarding the financial health of Stelaro, while omitting these material facts.  (FAC ¶156.)  The Court concludes these allegations are sufficient to meet the more relaxed particularity requirement for a concealment claim.  Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the third cause of action.   Receipt of Stolen Property Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not properly stated a claim for receipt of stolen property under Penal Code § 496.  The Court agrees. Section 496(a) provides, in relevant part, that: Every person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been  obtained in any manner constituting theft ..., knowing the property to be so stolen or  obtained ... shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one  year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. Section 496(c) states that “[a]ny person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) ... may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.” Cal. Penal Code § 496(c). California courts have held that “[s]ection 496(a) extends to property ‘that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft.’”  (Bell v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041).  Penal Code § 484 defines theft and states that “[e]very person ... who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal property, ... is guilty of theft.” (Cal. Penal Code § 484(a).) Additionally, “[t]he elements required to show a violation of section 496(a) are simply that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116). The California Supreme Court has emphasized that “not all commercial or consumer disputes alleging that a defendant obtained money or property through fraud, misrepresentation, or breach of a contractual promise will amount to a theft.”  (Siry Inv., L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal. 5th 333, 361.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges that it is owed $13,000,000 in loans, and Defendants have engaged in fraudulent transfers.  These allegations do not amount to theft.  Plaintiff voluntarily made loans to Stelaro LLC for which it allegedly received some but not all repayments.  Defendants did not steal Plaintiff’s money.     Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of action.   Constructive Trust Moving Defendants argue that there is no cause of action for constructive trust.  The Court agrees. In California, constructive trust is a remedy, not a cause of action. (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 384, 398 (“A constructive trust, however, is an equitable remedy, not a substantive claim for relief.”).) Because California does not recognize constructive trust as a cause of action, plaintiff does not, and can never, state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for constructive trust.  Pleading constructive trust as a cause of action instead of a remedy subjects the claim to demurrer. (Stanfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 76.)  Moreover, even if constructive trust was a cause of action, Plaintiff cannot satisfy the conditions for the imposition of a constructive trust.  “[A] constructive trust may only be imposed where the following three conditions are satisfied: (1) the existence of a res (property or some interest in property); (2) the right of a complaining party to that res; and (3) some wrongful acquisition or detention of the res by another party who is not entitled to it.”  (Communist Party v. 522 Valencia, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal. App. 4th 980, 990.)   Here, there is no res as to which Plaintiff has any colorable claim of right that can be subject to a constructive trust.  Plaintiff merely has a generalized claim for money allegedly owed.  (Kraus v. Willow Park Public Golf Course (1977) 73 Cal. App. 3d 354, 373 (“[A] constructive trust is an equitable remedy imposed where the defendant holds title or some interest in certain property which it is inequitable for him to enjoy as against the plaintiff.”); Michaelian v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 1093, 1114 (“specific identifiable property to which defendant has title” is a “pleading requirement”).)  A constructive trust is not an appropriate remedy for a claim that “is essentially one for money damages.”  (Evans v. Scribe One Ltd. LLC (D. Ariz. Jan. 21, 2022) 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11600 *28.) In sum, California law holds that constructive trust is a remedy, and not a standalone cause of action, and Plaintiff has not identified a specific identifiable property that could be subject to a constructive trust.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the ninth cause of action.  Unjust Enrichment Moving Defendants argue there is no cause of action for unjust enrichment.  The Court agrees.   “[T]here is no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment.” (Melchior v. New Line Prods. Inc. (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 779, 793.)  It is a general principle rather than a remedy in its own right.  (Id.)  It describes the theory underlying a claim that a defendant has been unjustly conferred a benefit by the plaintiff.   Return of that benefit is the remedy “typically sought in a quasi-contract cause of action.” (55 Cal. Jur. 3d (2024) Restitution § 2; Munoz v. MacMillan (2011) 195 Cal. App. 4th 648, 661.)  However, “a plaintiff may not plead the existence of an enforceable contract and simultaneously maintain a quasi-contract claim unless the plaintiff also pleads facts suggesting that the contract may be unenforceable or invalid.”  (Berlanga v. Univ. of San Francisco (2024) 100 Cal. App. 5th 75, 89.) Here, Plaintiff does not plead a quasi-contract cause of action. There are also express contracts under which Plaintiff seeks to recover, and no allegations as to how those contracts are or may become invalid or unenforceable.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the tenth cause of action.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART Moving Defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: July 25, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court   
 