 Case Number:  ¿23STCV12358    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFERENCEOn June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff Vito Mirabile filed an action for personal injury caused by asbestos
exposure.  On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff
filed this motion for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure section
36, subdivisions (a) and (e). 
A party who is over
70 years old may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if it makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under this subdivision may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.  (Id., § 36.5.)  Moreover, the court in its discretion may
grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the court
that the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).)  
“Upon the granting
of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not
more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120
days from the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability
of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.” (Id., § 36, subd. (f).) 
“Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one
continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.” (Ibid.)

Plaintiff Vito Mirabile is
75 years old and was diagnosed with malignant pleural mesothelioma.  (Fuchs Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Fuchs Decl., Ex. A.)  Vito Mirabile has had a significant decrease
in his physical and mental stamina, is not able to engage in regular daily
activities such as walking and focusing, and has increased trouble breathing and
difficulty sustaining focused communications.  (Fuchs Decl., ¶ 5.)  He suffers from congestive heart failure, a
severely elevated PSA deemed “probable prostate cancer,” and limited mobility
due to knee injury.  (Fuchs Decl., ¶¶
7-9; Fuchs Decl., Ex. C; Fuchs Decl., Ex. D; Fuchs Decl., Ex. E.)  He takes numerous medications.  (Fuchs Decl., ¶ 11.)  His condition is declining at an increasing
pace.  (Fuchs Decl., ¶ 12.)
Defendants argue the medical
records are stale and unreliable (Pneumo Abex Opposition, pp. 2-3) and Ms.
Fuchs’ declaration contradicts the medical records.  (Morse Tec’s Opposition at p. 6.)  
The court finds that Vito
Mirabile has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.  
The May 26, 2023 medical
records state Plaintiff “denies any symptoms related to the mesothelioma,” has
no pain or respiratory symptoms, is eating well, is gaining weight, had just
gotten married, was walking without difficulty, and was cheerful.  (Ex. B at p. MIRABILE000239.)  The August 7, 2023 medical records state he
is “doing well overall and denies any symptoms related to the mesothelioma,”
has no pain or respiratory symptoms, is eating well and gaining weight, had
recently traveled to Italy, had normal breathing and mental status, and was
cheerful.  (Ex. D at p.
MIRABILE000409.)  However, Plaintiff’s
November 6, 2023 declaration states his condition is getting worse.  He cannot walk far without getting very tired,
cannot maintain his property, is depressed, and has other serious health
problems.  (Mirabile Decl., ¶¶ 5, 10, 11.)
While medical records
indicate Plaintiff was doing well until the last few months, Plaintiff’s
declaration describes his physical and mental decline since then.  The most recent evidence supports the
conclusion that preference is necessary to allow Plaintiff to participate in
this litigation and trial while he is still physically and mentally able and to prevent prejudicing his interest in the litigation.
Plaintiffs’ motion for
trial setting preference is GRANTED.  The
parties are to meet and confer on a trial setting order.  The trial is scheduled for April 1, 2024 at 9
a.m. The final status conference is scheduled for March 18, 2024 at 9 a.m. A
status conference regarding the trial setting order is set for December 12,
2023 at 9:00 a.m. 
The moving party is to
order to give notice.