 Case Number:  23STCV16061    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (COSMETIC) Plaintiff Maria Lozano  filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure  to asbestos in Defendant Cosmetic Specialties, Inc. products.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of  summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.   The court continued the hearing on the motion several months to allow  jurisdictional discovery. A defendant may move to quash  service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over the  defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.  (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice  the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant  to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,  subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may exercise  jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or  of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause protects  an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of  a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger  King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction  over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair  play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court  of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)   When a defendant moves to  quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial  burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone  Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum  state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise  of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.)   “The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits  and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently  conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate.   [Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely  on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of  ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner  v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,  222.) A defendant is subject to  a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and  systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.  117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be  subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully  availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is  related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]”   (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,  Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)   This test does not require a “causal relationship between the  defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial  District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about  causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and  deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being  haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products  causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.  1027.)   Defendant provided  evidence that it is incorporated in New Jersey and has its principal place of  business in New Jersey.  (Motion at p. 4;  Katerndahl Decl., Exs. C, D.)  This  evidence establishes California has no general jurisdiction over Defendant, and  Plaintiff does not argue otherwise. In the original motion, Defendant  argued it had not done business in California related to Plaintiff’s  claims.  (Motion at p. 10.)  Plaintiff contended, without much evidence,  that Defendant had supplied talc to Mary Kay, Revlon, Max Factor, and Johnson  & Johnson, and then Plaintiff used their products.  (Opposition at pp. 1, 2.)   In advance of the  continued hearing date, the parties filed supplemental briefs.  Plaintiff says she needed more time because depositions  scheduled for December 5 and 21, 2023 will be relevant to Defendant.  Therefore, the hearing is CONTINUED to January  24, 2023 at 9 a.m.  The parties may file  supplemental opposition and reply briefs according to the statutory  schedule.  The parties should expect no  further continuances because the hearing has now been continued more than four  and a half months.             The  moving party is to give notice.  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL (IMI FABI, LLC)

Plaintiff Maria Loznao
filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure
to asbestos in products from Defendants IMI Fabi (USA), Inc., IMI Fabi, LLC,
and IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC.  Defendants filed
motions to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  The court continued the hearing on those
motions to allow jurisdictional discovery. 
Specifically, the court stated: 
“Plaintiff first needs to disclose to Defendants the specific products
Plaintiff alleges caused her injury and that contained Defendants’ talc.  Plaintiff then may conduct jurisdictional
discovery concerning Defendants’ activities in and contacts with California and
its sale of talc for those particular products during the time Plaintiff was
using those products.”  

Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel further responses to requests for production of documents from IMI
Fabi, LLC in connection with its jurisdictional discovery.  But Plaintiff failed to file a separate
statement.  If Plaintiff fails in that
regard in the future, the court will deny the motion on that ground alone.  Also, because Plaintiff did not file a
separate statement and did not address each request separately in its motion,
the court cannot determine the relevance of many of the requests, as discussed
below.

Also, Plaintiff does not
show where she identified the specific products she alleges caused her
injury.  For example, the motion states Plaintiff
“alleges that IMI Fabi, LLC supplied asbestos-containing talc to manufactures
of products that [Plaintiff] used (Mary Kay, Revlon, and Max Factor).”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  But the motion does not specific the
particular Mary Kay products, the particular Revlon products, and the
particular Max Factor products she used. 
These companies sell many different types of cosmetic and personal care products.

Regarding the specific
discovery requests, the court rules as follows:

No. 1:  Denied. 
This request seeks all documents that include the word “California.”  This request is overbroad and seeks documents
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  First, many documents could mention
California.  For example, if Defendant’s employees
send emails about their vacation plans, they could refer to going to
California.  Second, the request is not
limited to the time period when Plaintiff was using the specific products she
contends contain Defendant’s talc.  If
Defendant engaged in business in California decades before Plaintiff started
using those products, documents about that business would be irrelevant.  Third, the request requires Defendant to
search the files of dozens of entities and people who are not parties in this
case.  Plaintiff has not shown Defendant
has any control over those other entities, or that those other entities (many
of which appear to be located in foreign countries) have any connections to California.  Also, the request would require Defendant to
search the files of former owners, former employees, etc.  Defendant has no right to access former
employees’ and former owners’ records or the records of individuals who are not
parties in this case or current employees of Defendant.

No. 2:  Denied. 
This request seeks all documents referring to Proposition 65.  This is overbroad and seeks documents not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence for the
reasons discussed above.  In particular, Defendant
could have documents about Proposition 65 that are not related to the cosmetic
and talcum powder grade talc at issue here.

Nos. 3, 5, 6:  Denied. 
These requests seek all documents referring to Revlon, Coty, Mary Kay.  They are overbroad and seeks documents not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence for the
reasons discussed above.  For example, documents
discussing Revlon’s manufacturing and sales in foreign countries are not
relevant and would have nothing to do with Plaintiff’s use of Revlon
products.  

No. 4:  Denied. 
This request seeks all documents referring to Cosmetic Specialties.  It overbroad and seeks documents not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence for the
reasons discussed above.

No. 7:  Denied. 
This request seeks all documents referring to Procter & Gamble.  It overbroad and seeks documents not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence for the
reasons discussed above.  Procter &
Gamble makes and sells many, many different kinds of products throughout the country
and the world that have no connection to this case.  

Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12:  Denied. 
These requests seek all documents referring to Barretts Minerals, Cyprus,
Imerys, Charles B. Chrystal, and Color Techniques.  They are overbroad and seek documents not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence for the
reasons discussed above.  Also, Plaintiff
does not explain what Barretts, Cyprus, Imerys, Charles B. Chrystal, and Color
Technique have to do with Defendant, Defendant’s connections to California
during the relevant time period, or the specific disputed products Plaintiff
claims exposed her to asbestos.

No. 13:  Denied. 
This request seeks all MSDS sheets for talc that refer to
California.  This request is not limited
to the relevant time period.

If Plaintiff wants
jurisdictional discovery, she needs to serve reasonably tailored requests about
Defendant’s activities in and contacts with California during the time
Plaintiff was using the products that allegedly contained Defendant’s talc and
about Defendant’s sale of talc for the particular disputed products Plaintiff
used during the period Plaintiff was using the talc.  The discovery is to be limited to Defendant,
not third parties and entities and people over which and whom Defendant has no
control or which have no dealings with California and the disputed products
Plaintiff used.

The motion is DENIED.

            The
moving parties are to give notice.