 Case Number:  23STCP01472    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
Jila Babazadeh-Shraga
v. Gohar Babazadeh-Shraga et al., 23STCP01472
 
Tentative decision on application
for (1) appointment of receiver: granted; (2) preliminary injunction: granted



            
 
            Plaintiff
Jila Babazadeh-Shraga (“Jila”) moves for the appointment of a receiver for Defendant
Shalom Brothers Enterprises, LP
(“Shalom”).  Jila also moves for a preliminary injunction in aid of the receiver, enjoining Defendant Gohar Babazadeh-Shraga
(“Gohar”) from interfering with receiver. 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,[1] and
reply, and renders the following tentative decision.  
 
            A.
Statement of the Case
            1.
The Complaint
            Plaintiff
Jila filed her Complaint on May 3,
2023, against Defendants Gohar, Shalom, Elizabeth Babazadeh
(“Elizabeth”), both as executor of the estate of Louise Babazadeh (“Estate”)
and trustee of the Babazadeh Family Trust (“Trust”), Hayem’s Daughters, Inc.
(“Hayem”), and any unknown persons claiming legal or equitable right, title,
estate, lien or interest in the property described in the Complaint.  Although the caption lists seven causes of
action, the body of the Complaint only alleges (1) winding down and liquidation
of Shalom against Shalom, Gohar, and Elizabeth; (2) judicial dissolution of
Hayem against Hayem, Gohar, and Elizabeth; (3) partition of 2207 Veteran
Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90064 (“Veteran Property”) against Gohar and
anyone unknown persons claiming an interest in the Veteran Property; and (4)
declaratory relief against Gohar and Elizabeth. 
The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows.
            Shalom
was formed to operate a commercial shopping center at 1001 N. Vermont Avenue,
Los Angeles, California 90029 (“Vermont Property”).  Hayem was formed to oversee the leasing and
management of the Veteran Property.
Jila and Gohar each own one-third of Shalom as limited
partners, and one-third of Hayem’s common stock.  Jacklin Babazadeh (“Jacklin”) owned the other
third of both Shalom and Hayem until her death on July 23, 2017.  Jacklin’s mother Louise inherited Jacklin’s
shares but soon passed away as well.  Although
Louise’s estate planning documents require a split of Louise’s interest between
Jila and Gohar, this distribution has not yet occurred.
 
            a.
Shalom
            Ebrahim
Babazadeh (“Ebrahim”) was Shalom’s general partner until he died in 2010.  Shalom’s Partnership Agreement lists the
death of a general partner, with some exceptions, as one of the circumstances
where the partnership would terminate.  Under the partnership agreement, Shalom could
thenceforth only operate for the purposes of winding up.  
            Section
6.1 of the partnership agreement provides that Shalom’s limited partners will
not participate in or have any control over it nor have any right to act on its
behalf and so bind the other partners.  
            The
Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (“RULPA”) also says that limited
partners such as Jila and Gohar cannot participate in partnership
management.  They are only entitled to their
share of the assets and profits, at the discretion of the general partner.
Gohar seized control of Shalom’s bank accounts and assets
and has purported to operate it singlehandedly. 
Gohar has refused to provide Jila with access to the partnership’s
books, records, accountings, operations, leasing information.  Gohar also ousted Jila from all aspects of
Shalom’s business operation.  
                        
            b.
Hayem and the Veteran Property
            In
July 2002, Gohar formed Hayem to manage the Veteran Property.  Jila and Gohar have operated the Veteran
Property as an investment rental property since the Trust gifted it to them as
joint tenants in April 2003.  
            On
May 3, 2023, Jila filed a Declaration Severance of Joint Tenancy for the
Veteran Property.  This severed the joint
tenancy with Gohar and converted it into a tenancy in common.
            Jila
believes that Hayem has never had a board of directors and Gohar seized control
of and operated Hayem without one.  She
excluded Jila from Hayem operations and refuses to provide an accounting to
her.  Hayem has never had an operating
agreement, bylaws, shareholder agreement, shareholders or directors meeting,
office, or assets.
            As
50% owners, Jila and Gohar have reached a deadlock as to the management of Hayem.  It is no longer reasonably practical to carry
on its business.  Jila seeks dissolution of
Hayem and the appointment of a receiver to wind down its affairs.  Jila also seeks partition and sale of the
Veteran Property.
            
            c.
Prayer for Relief
            Jila
seeks the winding down, dissolution, and liquidation of Shalom and Hayem, appointment
of a receiver, damages, a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction
and permanent injunction; and attorney’s fees and costs.  Jila also seeks declaratory judgment that
Gohar is not Shalom’s general partner.
            Jila
also seeks a declaration that Jila and Gohar are co-owners of the Veteran
Property, partition by sale of the Veteran Property, an order that Jila and
Gohar share expenses and costs reasonably related to the partition.
            As
to all causes of action, Jila seeks attorney’s fees and costs, plus interest on
damages at the legal rate.
 
            2.
The Cross-Complaint
            On
June 22, 2023, Gohar filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Jila,
alleging (1) winding down and liquidation of Shalom and (2) partition.  The Cross-complaint alleges in pertinent part
as follows.
            Jila,
Gohar, and Jacklin were siblings.  Jaklin
died in July 2017.  Their mother Louise was
the former resident of the Veteran Property, which Gohar and Jila have owned as
50% owners since 2003.  
            Hayem,
Gohar, and Jila handle the management of the Veteran Property.  Jila has signed and filed multiple Statements
of Information listing herself as Hayem’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) and
Gohar as Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”).
            Jila
has consistently committed misconduct as to her joint interests with
Gohar.  After Louise vacated the Veteran
Property, Jila hired counsel to petition the probate court for a
conservatorship over Louise.  The court
appointed Michael Harrison, Esq. (“Harrison”) to represent Louise’s
interests.  After her death, Harrison
submitted a report documenting Jila’s misconduct, including potential elder
abuse and attempts to secure funds as a “fee” for allowing Louise to live with
her.  Harrisson concluded Jila only
wanted conservatorship to gain control of an apartment house Jila expected to
inherit.
            Jila
improperly spent Hayem funds for her personal benefit, without any business
justification.  
            Jila
and Gohar have operated Shalom together as necessary since their uncle
Ebrahim’s death.  However, Jila has taken
actions with respect to the Vermont Property without consent.  She spent money from Shalom’s account, much
of which for personal benefit without business justification.  Jila also unilaterally engaged an accountant,
paid taxes, and approved leasing and management.  In late 2019, Jila attempted to lock Gohar
out of Shalom’s bank account by removing her as a signatory.  
            
            b.
Course of Proceedings
            In
2019, Jila filed the complaint in Jila Babazadeh-Shraga v. Gohar Babazadeh-Shraga
et al, (“Jila v. Gohar I”) Case No. 19STCV45055.  Gohar filed a cross-complaint for breach of fiduciary
duty and related claims.  These claims
include Jila’s misconduct described in this Cross-Complaint.
            Jila’s
complaint in Jila v. Gohar I initially sought partition of the Veteran
Property.  Gohar made clear during
litigation that she wanted to sell the Veteran and Vermont Properties and to
wind down Shalom and Hayem.  Jila never
agreed to either.
            The
parties entered negotiations for settlement of Jila v. Gohar I,
including an agreement to sell the properties. 
Shortly before trial in 2023, Jila dismissed the claim for partition of
the Veteran Property.  She then withdrew
from the negotiations, hired new counsel, and filed the Complaint in this
action.  
            The
parties are deadlocked as to both properties and entities.  They agree that Hayem should be dissolved,
Shalom wound down, and the Veteran Property sold.  A lawsuit for involuntary dissolution of
Hayem seems unnecessary.
            
            c.
Prayer for Relief
            Gohar
seeks: (1) an order winding down, liquidating and distributing Shalom assets,
and appointing a receiver as necessary to oversee the process; (2) partition by
sale of the Veteran Property and distribution of the proceeds, including
appointment of a receiver or referee to accomplish this; (3) an award for costs
of the partition and of this action as it related to partition; (4) accounting
from Jila; and (5) attorney’s fees and costs.
 
            3.
Course of Proceedings
            On
May 4, 2023, Jila filed a notice of related case to Jila v. Gohar I.
            On
May 16, 2023, Jila filed notice of lis pendens as to the Veteran
Property.
            On
May 23, 2023, Gohar, Shalom, and Hayem filed Notices of Acknowledgement of
Receipt of the Complaint and Summons.  On
May 30, 2023, Elizabeth filed Notices of Acknowledgement of Receipt of the
Complaint and Summons in both relevant capacities.
            On
June 22, 2023, Gohar filed and served her Answer and Cross-Complaint. 
            On
June 27, 2023, Elizabeth filed separate Answers to the Complaint in both
capacities.
            On
July 18, 2023, Gohar filed an amended Answer to the Complaint.
            On
September 14, 2023, Department 34 entered a stipulation to stay the action for
90 days for mediation.  A case management
conference was scheduled for December 1, 2023, should the parties fail to
resolve the matter through mediation.
            On
January 31, 2024, Jila filed a verification for the Complaint’s second cause of
action.
            
            B.
Applicable Law
            1.
Receivership
            CCP
section 564(b) provides that the court has authority to appoint a receiver in
any of the following pertinent circumstances: (1) in an action by a vendor to
vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to the creditor's claim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the
plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund,
or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property
or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; (9) in all
other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party; (11)
in an action by a secured lender for specific performance of an assignment of
rents provision in a deed of trust, mortgage, or separate assignment document;
and (12) in a case brought by an assignee under an assignment of leases, rents,
issues, or profits pursuant to Civil Code section 2938(g).
            The court also has authority to
appoint a receiver when, at the time of the filing of a complaint for
involuntary dissolution or at any
time thereafter, the court has reasonable grounds to believe that unless a
receiver of the corporation is appointed, the interests of the corporation or
the public or charitable purpose of the corporation will suffer pending the
hearing and determination of the complaint.  Business and Professions Code
(“Bus. and Prof. Code”) §6513. 
            The
appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy to be utilized only in
“exceptional cases.”  As such, a receiver
should not be appointed unless absolutely essential and because no other remedy
will serve its purpose.  City &
County of San Francisco v. Daley, (“Daley”) (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th
734, 744.  A plaintiff who seeks
appointment of a receiver of certain property under CCP section 564(b)(1) has
the burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that plaintiff has a
joint interest with defendant in the property, that the property is in danger
of being lost, removed or materially injured, and that plaintiff's right to
possession is probable.  Alhambra-Shumway
Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra Gold Mine Corp., ("Alhambra”) (1953)
116 Cal.App.2d 869, 873.
            Once
appointed, a receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring and
defend actions in his own name, as receiver; to take and keep possession of the
property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise the
same, to make transfers, and generally to do such acts respecting the property
as the court may authorize.  CCP §568.
 
            2.
Corporations Code
            Since
January 2010, the ULPA, Corporations Code (“Corp. Code”) sections 15900 et
seq., governs all limited partnerships. 
Corp. Code §15912.06(b).
            A
limited partner does not have the right or the power as a limited partner to
act for or bind the limited partnership. 
Corp. Code §15903.02.
            A
person is dissociated from a limited partnership as a general partner upon the
occurrence of, inter alia, (b) an event agreed to in the partnership
agreement as causing the person’s dissociation as a general partner, and (g) the
person’s death.  Corp. Code §§ 15906.03(b),
(g)(1).
            Except
as otherwise provided, a limited partnership is dissolved, and its activities
must be wound up, upon, inter alia, the happening of an event specified
in the partnership agreement.  Corp. Code
§15908.01(a).  Dissolution also occurs after
the dissociation of a person as a general partner, if none remain, unless
within 90 days of the dissociation, (A) consent to continue the activities of
the limited partnership and admit at least one general partner is given by
limited partners owning a majority of the rights to receive distributions as
limited partners at the time the consent is to be effective; and (B) at least
one general partner is so admitted.  Corp.
Code §15908.01(c).  
            A
partnership normally continues after dissolution only for the purpose of
winding up its business.  Corp. Code
§16802(a).  The partnership is terminated
when the winding up of its business is completed.  Id. 
However, between dissolution and winding up, all partners, except wrongfully
dissociating partners, may waive the right to have the partnership’s business
wound up and the partnership terminated. 
Corp. Code §16802(b).  If so, the
partnership carries on as if dissolution never occurred, and any liability the
partnership incurred between dissolution and waiver is determined as if
dissolution never occurred.  Corp. Code
§16802(b)(1).  The rights of a third
party that arose out of conduct in reliance on dissolution before the third
party knew of the waiver, are not adversely affected.  Corp. Code §16802(b)(2).  
            On
the application of any partner, the appropriate court may order judicial
supervision of the winding up, including the appointment of a person to wind up
the dissolved limited partnership’s activities, if: (1) a limited partnership
does not have a general partner, and within a reasonable time following the
dissolution no person has been appointed; or (2) the applicant establishes
other good cause.  Corp. Code §15908.03(d).
 
            3.
Preliminary Injunction
            An
injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular
act; it may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a
judge thereof; and when granted by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of
the court.  CCP §525.  An injunction may be more completely defined
as a writ or order commanding a person either to perform or to refrain from
performing a particular act.  See Comfort
v. Comfort, (1941) 17 Cal.2d 736, 741. McDowell v. Watson, (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 1155, 1160.[2]  It is an equitable remedy available generally
in the protection or to prevent the invasion of a legal right.  Meridian, Ltd. v. City and County of San
Francisco, et al., (1939) 13 Cal.2d 424.
            The
purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo
pending final resolution upon a trial.  See
Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc., (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536. Grothe
v. Cortlandt Corp., (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316; Major v. Miraverde
Homeowners Assn., (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, 623.  The status quo has been defined to
mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending
controversy.  Voorhies v. Greene
(1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 989, 995, quoting United Railroads v. Superior Court,
(1916) 172 Cal. 80, 87. 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.,
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.
            A
preliminary injunction is issued after hearing on a noticed motion.  The complaint normally must plead injunctive
relief.  CCP §526(a)(1)-(2).[3]  Preliminary injunctive relief requires the
use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds
for relief.  See e.g. Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green, (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.  Injunctive relief may be granted based on a
verified complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate,
facts.  See CCP §527(a).  For this reason, a pleading alone rarely
suffices.  Weil & Brown, California
Procedure Before Trial, 9:579, 9(ll)-21 (The Rutter Group 2007).  The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as
moving party.  O’Connell v. Superior
Court, (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481. 
            A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law.  CCP §526(4); Thayer
Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors, (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307; Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist., (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565.  The concept of
“inadequacy of the legal remedy” or “inadequacy of damages” dates from the time
of the early courts of chancery, the idea being that an injunction is an
unusual or extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the
remedy at law (usually damages) will adequately compensate the injured
plaintiff.  Department of Fish &
Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist., (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1554,
1565.
            In
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers two factors: (1) the reasonable probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits at trial (CCP §526(a)(1)), and (2) a balancing of the
“irreparable harm” that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.,
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402; Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro v.
Schectman, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1283; Davenport v. Blue Cross of
California, (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446; Abrams v. St. Johns Hospital,
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 628, 636.  Thus, a
preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential
entitlement to such relief.  Doe v.
Wilson, (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304. 
The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion.  Thornton v.
Carlson, (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.
            A
preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. 
See CCP §529(a); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn
Cemetery Assn., (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.
 
            C.
Statement of Facts
            1.
Jila’s Evidence[4]
            a.
Shalom History
            On
August 16, 1999, Shalom filed a Certificate of Limited Partnership with the
California Secretary of State.  Jila
Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  The certificate listed
Ebrahim as the general partner.  Jila
Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  The certificate also stated
that a general partner’s signature is needed to file certificates of amendment,
restatement, dissolution, continuation, cancellation, and merger.  Jila Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  
            On
August 20, 1999, Ebrahim executed Shalom’s partnership agreement.  Jila Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.  The partnership agreement states that Jila,
Gohar, and Jacklin each owned 33%, and Ebrahim owned 1%, of Shalom.  Jila Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.  Shalom’s assets include the Vermont Property,
which currently has three tenants, and various bank accounts.  Jila Decl., ¶3, Ex. 2.  
            Paragraph
2.6(i) of the partnership agreement provides that the partnership will
terminate upon, inter alia, the death of any general partner or the sole
remaining general partner.  Jila Decl.,
¶4, Ex. 2.  Paragraphs 8.1 clarifies that
this means the partnership would be dissolved. 
Jila Decl., ¶4, n. 1, Ex. 2.  The general
partner or the “persons required or permitted by law to carry out the winding
up” of Shalom affairs, would then proceed to liquidate assets, wind up affairs,
and distribute the proceeds of the liquidation. 
Jila Decl., ¶5, Ex. 2.  
            Ebrahim
died on June 5, 2010.  RJN Ex. 1.  Shalom should have dissolved by operation of
law.  Jila Decl., ¶5.
            In
2017, Jacklin died intestate.  Jila
Decl., ¶3, n.3.  Jacklin’s mother, Louise,
inherited her 33% share of Shalom.  Jila
Decl., ¶3, n.3.  When Louise died, Jila
and Gohar each inherited half of Louise’s share.  Jila Decl., ¶3, n.3.  
            Shalom
has not filed state and federal partnership tax returns for 2022.  Jila Decl., ¶6.  At the current rate, it will not timely file
such returns for 2023.  Jila Decl.,
¶6.  K-1s were not issued for either
year.  Jila Decl., ¶6.  This has impaired the limited partners’
ability to file individual tax returns. 
Jila Decl., ¶6.  It has also impaired
and delayed the closing of Jacklin’s estate. 
Jila Decl., ¶6.  None of the limited
partners has the authority to operate or wind-up Shalom under the partnership
agreement.  Jila Decl., ¶6.  
 
            b.
The Lease
            In
2013, Gohar negotiated and executed a ten-year lease (“Lease”) with American
Ranch and Seafood Company (“Ranch”). 
Jila Decl., ¶7, Ex. 3.  The
Lease’s Rent Adjustment Addendum increases the monthly Base Rent on August 1 of
each year to $15,580.31 in 2020, $16,359.33 in 2021, and $17,177.30 in
2022.  Jila Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  Ranch has paid only $14,838.39 since that was
the Base Rent in 2019.  Jila Decl., ¶8,
Ex. 6.  This is before a $3,000 Common
Area Maintenance (“CAM”) payment owed each month, which Ranch once missed.  Jila Decl., ¶8, Exs. 3, 7.  Based on this payment schedule, Ranch owes $643,238.68
in back rent.  Jila Decl., ¶8, Ex.
7.  No one on Shalom’s behalf can
currently calculate the amount in arrearage on the Lease.  Jila Decl., ¶8.
            Paragraph
4.4(b) of the Lease requires Shalom to give Ranch a reasonably detailed statement
of CAM costs actually incurred each calendar year within 60 days of its end.  Jila Decl., ¶9, Ex. 3.  Ranch would either be credited the excess
paid or have ten days to pay any outstanding balance.  Jila Decl., ¶9, Ex. 3.  Shalom has not provided any reconciliation
since 2019.  Jila Decl., ¶9.
            The
Lease has two options to extend for five years, the first of which Ranch
exercised in February 2023.  Jila Decl.,
¶7, Ex. 4.  The options provides for two Market
Rental Value Adjustment Dates: August 2023 and August 2028.  Jila Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.  The options require landlord and tenant to
attempt to agree on the new Market Rental Value on those dates.  Jila Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.  Without a general partner, no one at Shalom
has the authority to enter into those negotiations.   Jila Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5.  
 
            c.
Joseph Boodaie
            In
2015, Gohar hired Joseph Boodaie (“Boodaie”) as Shalom’s property manager.  Jila Decl., ¶10; Horn Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  
            Jila
has known since 2010 that Boodaie had a tainted business reputation.  Jila Decl., ¶10.  A Jewish Journal Article from February 2010 reported
12 different lawsuits against him for defrauding Iranian Jews for a collective
$100 million.  Jila Decl., ¶10, Ex.
8.  Since learning Gohar hired Boodaie,
Jila continuously and vehemently objected.  
Jila Decl., ¶11.  This has proved
to be a major point of contention between the parties.  Jila Decl., ¶11.  
            In
December 2023, Jila’s counsel finally convinced Boodaie to step down and stop
providing services to Shalom.  Horn
Decl., ¶3.  By then Boodaie had been
involved in 56 lawsuits over the last 15 years (Horn Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2) and had
two judgment liens against him for $9,212,365.58 and $1,077,319.20 (Horn Decl.,
¶5, Exs. 3-4).  On December 13, 2023, a
third judgment was entered against him for $181,823.   Horn Decl., ¶6, Ex. 5.  
            In
the last few months, Jila has asked Boodaie at least four times to turn over
all Shalom books, records, electronically stored information, and documents to
no avail.  Horn Decl., ¶7.
            
            d.
Proposed Receiver
            Ryan
Baker (“Baker”) has been the lead agent on over 150 Receiver, Partition
Referee, Provisional Director, Trustee, and regulatory receivership assignments.  Baker Decl., ¶1, Ex. A.  He has provided oversight for a wide variety
of commercial properties.  Baker Decl.,
¶4.  His fees for this receivership would
be $425 per hour.  Baker Decl., ¶5.  He would delegate tasks to subordinates with
hourly rates from $125 to $375 based on who has the requisite skill set.  Baker Decl., ¶5.  
 
            2.
Gohar’s Evidence
            Gohar
has never usurped control of Shalom or presented herself as its general
partner, and she does not believe she has the right to unilaterally control it.  Gohar Decl., ¶3.  She has done things for the partnership, as
the other limited partners have, but never over Jila or Ebrahim’s
objection.  Gohar Decl., ¶3.  She currently is not acting on the partnership’s
behalf and will not do so without Jila’s approval, per usual practice.  Gohar Decl., ¶3.  
            Gohar
hired Boodaie in 2015 when Jila wanted to replace the previous property
manager.  Gohar Decl., ¶4.  Jila knew about and approved his
appointment.  Gohar Decl., ¶4.  She has worked with Boodaie multiple times
since.  Gohar Decl., ¶4.  
            Boodaie
never had the authority to access Shalom’s bank accounts or spend money from
them.  Gohar Decl., ¶5.  He deposited rent checks and performed certain
accounting and bookkeeping functions, but he never had decision-making
authority.  Gohar Decl., ¶5.  
            Gohar
has wanted to replace Boodaie since 2017 but thought that she could not do so
without Jila’s approval.  Gohar Decl.,
¶5.  In July 2017, she carbon-copied Jila
on an email to accountant Azy Chahoon (“Chahoon”) seeking to hire him as Shalom
and Hayem’s accountant.   Gohar Decl., ¶5, Ex. A.  In September 2018, she emailed Chahoon asking
if he knew any American property management firms to replace Boodaie once Jila
agrees.  Gohar Decl., ¶5, Ex. B.  Jila never responded to either email or
otherwise approved a replacement, so Gohar could not replace Boodaie.  Gohar Decl., ¶5.  
            Jila
and her husband approved the Lease. 
Gohar Decl., ¶6.  No one accused
Gohar of unilaterally entering the Lease until 2023, four years into this
action.  Gohar Decl., ¶6.  
            Jila
has attempted to usurp control.  Gohar
Decl., ¶7.  On December 21, 2023, her
attorney emailed a Vermont Property tenant threatening legal action unless it
paid overdue rent for the past three months. 
Gohar Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  The email
also directed the tenant to deliver this payment in cashier’s check to a new
address following Boodaie’s termination as property manager.  Gohar Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  Gohar never authorized this email and only
learned about it when the tenant forwarded it to her.  Gohar Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  Jila had asserted that neither limited
partner could act on Shalom’s behalf without the other’s consent.  Gohar Decl., ¶7.  Gohar took no action because of this, yet
Jila unilaterally took action against this tenant without Gohar’s
knowledge.  Gohar Decl., ¶7.  
            Jila
has unilaterally acted on Shalom’s behalf in multiple other cases.  Gohar Decl., ¶8.  She has written checks from the partnership
account for what may be personal expenses, which Gohar never did.  Gohar Decl., ¶8.  In late 2019, Jila attempted to lock Gohar
out of Shalom’s account by taking her name off it.  Gohar Decl., ¶8.  In 2020, Jila hired tax accountant Nancy
Rappaport (“Rappaport”) to prepare and file Shalom’s tax returns despite
Gohar’s objections.  Gohar Decl.,
¶8.  Jila paid Rappaport from Shalom
funds.  Gohar Decl., ¶8.  
            Gohar
has advocated for Shalom’s winding down and sale of the Vermont Property for
years.  Gohar Decl., ¶2.  Jila has refused efforts to do so and has placed
conditions on any agreement.  Gohar
Decl., ¶2.  
            Although
Gohar has received various Shalom records over the years, Jila has always had
access to them.  Gohar Decl., ¶9.  Gohar has never refused or failed to provide
Jila with documents that she needs and does not already have.  Gohar Decl., ¶9.  Jila also has full access to Shalom’s Bank of
America account.  Gohar Decl., ¶9.  
 
            b.
Service of Moving Papers
            Although
Jila informed Gohar she would propose three receivers, Jila only served the
declaration for Baker.  Brody Decl.,
¶2.  Gohar has agreed to his appointment
for Shalom’s liquidation and winding down. 
Brody Decl., ¶2.  
 
            3.
Reply Evidence
            When
Gohar hired Boodaie, Jila objected given his reputation.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶4.  Only Gohar’s signature is on the Property
Management Agreement hiring him.  Horn
Reply Decl., ¶4, Ex. 6.[5]  
            A
receiver needs Shalom’s books and records to liquidate it.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶4.  
            Boodaie
testified at his deposition in Jila v. Gohar I that he worked with Gohar
because he was taught to deal with the most knowledgeable partner when there
are more than one.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶5,
Ex. 7, pp. 41-42.  Over 8.5 years, the
rate of his communication with Gohar varied. 
Ex. 7, p. 42.  Most of their
communications concerned the Vermont Property, including leases and taxes.  Horn Ex. 7, pp. 44, 46-47.
            Although
Boodaie prepared the tax returns for Shalom, he never asked for the underlying
documents; he just asked Gohar for the total amount for repairs or property tax
insurance.  Ex. 7, pp. 47-48.  
            Boodaie
prepared the CAM reconciliation statements for Ranch’s Lease.  Ex. 7, p. 48. 
At one point Ranch claimed it was being charged for the electricity used
by a nearby billboard.  Ex. 7, p.
50.  Gohar told Boodaie that she would
address it when she was in Los Angeles, but the meeting was cancelled.  Ex. 7, p. 50.
            Gohar
and Boodaie also discussed whether Ranch should receive a rent concession
during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Ex. 7, p.
51.  Boodaie advised Gohar not to offer
one.  Ex. 7, p. 51.
            Boodaie
told Gohar that Ranch wanted to exercise its option to renew the Lease.  Ex. 7, p. 52. 
Gohar eventually said that she had a prepared extension.  Ex. 7, p. 52. 
She never sent a copy to Boodaie. 
Ex. 7, p. 52.
            On
July 24, 2023, Jila sent Gohar three emails demanding a receipt of Gohar’s
payment of property insurance for the Vermont Property.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶6, Ex. 8.  Jila’s counsel wrote that “The bottom line is
that the bill has been paid.”  Ex.
8.  Gohar never provided this
receipt.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶6.
            When
Jila served Gohar the moving papers on January 22, 2024, she attached the declarations
from all three proposed receivers.  Horn
Reply Decl., ¶2, Exs. 1-2.
 
            D.
Analysis
            Plaintiff
Jila applies for the appointment of a receiver for the winding up of Shalom.
 
            1.
Service
            Jila
identified three candidate receivers in her motion.  Gohar asserts of the three, Jila only served
her with Baker’s declaration.  Opp. at
7.  Although Jila states that she did
serve the other declarations, the court need not discuss this issue further
because the parties have agreed that Baker should be appointed as a
receiver.  Opp. at 7; Reply at 2, n.1.
 
            2.
Appointment of Receiver
            On
the application of any partner, the court may order judicial supervision of the
winding up, including the appointment of a person to wind up the dissolved
limited partnership’s activities, if: (1) a limited partnership does not have a
general partner, and within a reasonable time following the dissolution no
person has been appointed; or (2) the applicant establishes other good
cause.  Corp. Code §15908.03(d).
CCP section 564(b) provides that the court has authority to
appoint a receiver in any of the following pertinent circumstances: (1) in an
action between partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property
or fund, and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being
lost, removed, or materially injured; and (9) in all other cases where
necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party.
            The
parties agree that Baker should be appointed as receiver to wrap up Shalom’s
affairs and liquidate its assets.  Opp.
at 7; Reply at 2.  The motion to appoint Baker
(“Receiver”) as the agreed-upon receiver is granted.  See CCP §564.  
 
            3.
Preliminary Injunction
            Jila
seeks a preliminary injunction enjoining Gohar and her agent, Boodaie, from interfering with Receiver's operations and compelling both
to produce all pertinent Shalom books and records.  Mot. at 19.  
            Gohar
opposes, arguing that she has no intention of interfering with Receiver,
denying that she usurped control of Shalom, denying that she maintains records
for Shalom, contending that Jila has equal access to the documents, stating
that there is no evidence she would not turn over documents or property, arguing
that she does not control Boodaie and cannot compel him to turn over documents,
and concluding that any injunction should issue against all partners.  Opp. at 5, 8-10.  
            In
reply, Jila relies on Boodaie’s deposition testimony that he worked on a
variety of matters for Gohar over 8.5 years, including preparation of taxes for
Shalom, CAM reconciliation statements for Ranch’s Lease, and whether Ranch
should receive a rent concession during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Horn Reply Decl., ¶5, Ex. 7, pp. 47-48, 51.  He worked exclusively with Gohar to get the
information he needed.  Ex. 7, pp. 41-42.
            A
preliminary injunction in aid of the receiver is generally issued when the
receiver is appointed to prevent the parties from interfering with the receiver
and compelling production of any pertinent records.  The facts that Gohar does not intend to
interfere and is willing to cooperate by producing records to Receiver do not
control.  The parties are deadlocked and
accuse each other of misconduct, which shows the need for an injunction.  A preliminary injunction will issue to restrain
all three of Gohar, Jila, and Boodaie from interfering with Receiver and
compelling them to produce Shalom’s books and records to Receiver.
 
            E. Conclusion
            The
motion for appointment of Receiver for Shalom’s winding up and liquidation of
its assets, including the Vermont Property, is granted.  A preliminary injunction will issue enjoining
both parties and Boodaie from interfering with Receiver, compelling them to
cooperate with Receiver, and directing all three to turn over all property and
all related records and documents in their possession, custody, or control.
            Bonds
are set as follows: (a) receiver’s bond equal to one month’s rent of Vermont
Property; and (b) preliminary injunction bond of $7500.  The court will discuss other issues in the
proposed order with counsel at hearing.


