 Case Number:  23STCP01475    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
737-747
N Western Opportunity Owner LLC v. City of Los Angeles et al, 23STCP01475

Tentative decision on demurrer:
sustained without leave to amend 



            
            
Respondents City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles City
Council (“City Council”), Los Angeles City Planning Department (“Planning”), Planning
Director Vince Bertoni (“Bertoni”), Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety (“LADBS”), and LADBS General Manager Osama Younan (“Younan”) (collectively,
“City”) demur to all five causes of action of the First Amended Petition
(“FAP”) filed by Petitioner 737-747 N Western Opportunity Owner LLC (“NWOO”). 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. Petition
            Petitioner
NWOO filed the Petition on May 4, 2023. 
The operative pleading is the FAP, filed on November 15, 2023, against
City, the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office (“Assessor”), and Jeff Prang in
his capacity as Assessor (“Prang”), naming Neutra Jardinette on Marathon QOZ,
LLC (“Neutra”) as Real Party-in-Interest. 
The FAP alleges claims for mandamus based on a historical property contract,
relief under CCP section 526a, mandamus based on California Constitution art.[1]
XIII sections 1 and 8, and two counts of declaratory relief.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
            NWOO
owns real property directly across an alley from the Jardinette Apartments at
5128 W. Marathon St., Los Angeles, CA (“Jardinette Property”).  FAP, ¶10.  NWOO has paid taxes on real estate in the City
within a year of filing this action.  FAP,
¶10.  
 
            a.
The Jardinette Property 
            The
unlawful conduct at issue pertains in part to the Jardinette Property, the historical
property contract that the Jardinette Property owner and the City entered into on
December 16, 2017 (“Jardinette Contract”), and the City’s failure to comply
with the California Constitution and state and local laws.  FAP, ¶2. 

Richard J. Neutra (“Neutra”) and Rudolph M. Schindler (“Schindler”)
designed and built the four-story Jardinette Property in 1928.  FAP, ¶22. 
It has long been recognized for its outstanding design and historical
significance.  FAP, ¶22.  In 1986, the Jardinette Property was listed
on the National Register of Historic Places. 
FAP, ¶23.  In 1988, the City
designated the Jardinette Property as Historic-Cultural Monument No. 390.  FAP, ¶23. 

            The
Mills Act allows local governments to enter into contracts with owners of
qualified historical properties who actively participate in the restoration and
maintenance of their historical properties and receive property tax
relief.  FAP, ¶25.  In 1996, the City adopted its Mills Act
Historical Property Program (“Mills Act Program” or “Program”), Los Angeles
Administrative Code (“LAAC”) sections 19.140, et seq.  FAP, ¶26. 
LAAC section 19.140 allows the City Council to contract with an owner or
agent of the owner of any qualified historical property, as defined in the
Mills Act, provided the contract meets the requirements of sections 50281 and
50282.  FAP, ¶26.  Pursuant to Article 1.9 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code (“R&T Code”), the County Assessor may reassess historical
properties that are so “restricted” in a way that may lower their property
taxes.  FAP, ¶26.
            In
2017, then Jardinette Property owner CIP Jardinette Holding, LLC (“CIP”)
applied to the City for a reduction in property taxes under the Mills Act and the
LAAC.  FAP, ¶27.  The application included a May 15, 2017 Historic
Structure Report identifying the Jardinette Property as an International Style
multi-family dwelling designed by Neutra and Schindler in 1928.  FAP, ¶29. 

            On
July 11, 2017, Chattel Inc. (“Chattel”), a historic preservation consultant
under contract with the City, reviewed the owner’s application and conducted an
onsite inspection.  FAP, ¶31.  On August 17, the City’s Cultural Heritage
Commission (“CHC”) recommended approval of the application, and the City
Council did so.  FAP, ¶¶ 32-33.  
On December 16, 2017, CIP and the City entered into the Jardinette
Contract.  FAP, ¶34, Ex. 1.   The Jardinette
Contract declared the Jardinette Property as a Historic Cultural Monument.  FAP, ¶34, Ex. 1.  It required maintenance of the Jardinette
Property in a “superior manner” without dilapidated buildings, walls, or
windows.  FAP, ¶35, Ex. 1.  CIP also was required to restore and
rehabilitate the Jardinette Property according to the Jardinette Contract’s
restoration plan (“Plan”).  FAP, ¶34, Ex.
1.  The Plan included renovation of the electrical,
plumbing, window repair and replacement, seismic work, interior walls, roofing,
flooring, doors, interior and exterior surfaces, hardscape, landscape,
bathrooms, kitchens, lobby and fire escapes. 
FAP, ¶34, Ex. 1.  The proposed
completion year for each project was either 2018 or 2022.  FAP, ¶34, Ex. 1.  
            Pursuant
to the Jardinette Contract, the Assessor specially assessed the Jardinette
Property and awarded the owner significant annual reduction in property taxes.  FAP, ¶36. 
The Jardinette Property owner breached the Jardinette Contract in
multiple ways, and the City had notice of this breach.  FAP, ¶37. 
The owner failed to perform work in accordance with the Secretary of
Interior Standards, maintain the Jardinette Property in superior condition,
rehabilitate the Jardinette Property according to the Plan, meet the 2018
rehabilitation for such rehabilitation, and maintain the Jardinette Property’s
historic character.  FAP, ¶40. 
            On
October 11, 2022, the City Council approved a motion noting that the Jardinette
Property had significantly deteriorated and had active code enforcement for
unpermitted construction work.  FAP, ¶41,
Ex. 2.  A bolded statement in the City
Council’s’ motion stated that the failure of a Mills Act property owner to
preserve, rehabilitate and maintain the historical property is both a violation
of the contract and a misappropriation of property tax dollars that could be
allocated to greater community purposes. 
FAP, ¶41, Ex. 2.  The motion
directed Planning and LADBS to prepare a report in 30 days with recommendations
about the Jardinette Property’s existing condition, whether it was meeting the
obligations of the Jardinette Contract, and what enforcement or termination
actions the City should take.   FAP, ¶¶ 42-43,
Ex. 2.  
            On
October 14, 2022, NWOO sent LADBS photographs showing the Jardinette Property had
fallen into great disrepair in breach of the Jardinette Contract’s
provisions.  FAP, ¶44, Ex. 3.  The City failed and refused to address the Jardinette
Property’s disrepair and violations of the Jardinette Contract.  FAP, ¶45. 
On November 1, NWOO reiterated that its prior photographs showed that
any work proceeding on the Jardinette Property was not conducted in accordance
with the Jardinette Contract or applicable law. 
FAP, ¶46. 
            On
February 9, 2023, NWOO served California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) requests
on Planning, LADBS, the City Attorney and Los Angeles Police Department for
records pertaining to the City Council’s October 2022 motion.  FAP, ¶47. 
None of the produced documents suggests that the City took any action in
compliance with the motion.  FAP,
¶48.  The City staff completely ignored
the City Council’s action.  FAP, ¶¶
48-49.  
            Five
years have passed since the City entered into the Jardinette Contract.  FAP, ¶87. 
The City has failed to inspect the Jardinette Property to ensure
compliance, as required by sections 50281 and 50282.  FAP, ¶88.
 
            b.
Mills Act Pattern and Practice
This case also concerns the City’s general violations of Mills
Act historical properties throughout the City. 
FAP, ¶2.  The City has a
longstanding policy and practice of ignoring requirements of the Mills Act,
Government Code[2] section
50280 et seq., including the requirement that it conduct certain
inspections.  FAP, ¶4.  
In 2020, the City engaged Chattel to review the Mills Act Program.  FAP, ¶51. 
In June 2022, the City released a report titled “Mills Act Program
Assessment and Equity Analysis” (“Mills Report”).  FAP, ¶51. 
            The Mills Report
concluded that the Program fails to meet state law inspection requirements.  FAP, ¶52. 
State law requires compliance inspections every five years for each
property, yet the City completes 25% of the required inspections annually.  FAP, ¶¶ 53, 110.  Only two City staff members administer the 948
properties in the Program on a part-time basis. 
FAP, ¶52.  
            Based
on the Mills Report, NWOO believes the City has a policy and practice to ignore
or violate Mills Act inspection and other requirements.  FAP, ¶54. 
It has demonstrated a pattern and practice that constitutes an
overarching, quasi-legislative policy in that refuses to comply with mandatory
duties under the Mills Act and other applicable laws.  FAP, ¶54. 
It has a mandatory duty under section 50284 to cancel or enforce
Historic Property contracts where the City Council determines the owner has breached
any condition of the contract but has failed to do so.  FAP, ¶110.
            The
City’s failure to comply with the Mills Act has bestowed onto Neutra and other owners
of other historical properties illegal and wrongful tax reductions that have
harmed, and will continue to harm, the public. 
FAP, ¶55.  These violations of art.
XIII, sections 1 and 8, the Mills Act, and LAAC sections 19.140 et seq.,
are a waste of, or a form of injury to, public funds.  FAP., ¶¶ 100, 112.
 
            c.
Prayer for Relief
            For
the Jardinette Property, NWOO seeks a writ of mandate, and declaratory relief, compelling
the City to (1) inspect the Jardinette Property’s interior and exterior to
determine Jardinette Contract compliance, (2) cause preparation of a written
report of the results of the inspection with compliance determinations for all
conditions in the Jardinette Contract; and (3) either cancel the Jardinette
Contract or bring legal action to enforce it upon a determination of
non-compliance.  FAP ¶79, Prayer, ¶¶ 1, 3.  
            NWOO
also seeks injunctive relief under CCP section 526a (1) prohibiting the assessment
of the Jardinette Property for taxation at a reduced rate, (2) compelling the
City to restore the non-Mills Act taxation rate, and (3) compelling the
recovery and disgorgement of all improperly reduced taxes on the Jardinette
Property and related penalties.  FAP
Prayer, ¶2.
            NWOO
further seeks a writ of mandate and declaration compelling the City to comply
with art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act with respect to all historical
properties and its obligation under historical property contracts to inspect
them every five years to determine and compel compliance.  FAP ¶80, Prayer, ¶¶ 4-5.  The declaration should state that (a) under art.
XIII, sections 1 and 8 and the Mills Act, the City can only tax historical
properties at a lower rate when the property is “enforceably restricted” and
(b) its current policy violates duties under the Mills Act, art. XIII, sections
1 and 8, and art. XI, section 7.  FAP
Prayer, ¶5.
            NWOO
also seeks attorney’s fees and costs. 
FAP Prayer, ¶¶ 6-7.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
June 2, 2023, Neutra filed its Answer to the Petition.
            On
November 15, 2023, NWOO filed and served the FAP on all Respondents and Neutra.  Also on November 15, 2023, NWOO dismissed the
FAP against the Assessor and Prang.
            On
December 18, 2023, Neutra filed its Answer to the FAP.
            
            B. Governing Law
            1.
Property Taxes
            Unless
otherwise provided by the California Constitution or federal law, all property
is taxable and shall be assessed at the same percentage of fair market value.  art. XIII, §1(a).  To promote the preservation of property of
historical significance, the California Constitution authorizes the Legislature
to define such property and provide that, when the land is enforceably
restricted in a manner specified by the Legislture to a specified use, it shall
be valued for property tax purposes only on a basis that is consistent with its
restrictions and uses.  art. XIII, §8.
            The R&T
Code defines “enforceably restricted” for purposes of art. XIII, section 8 as
property that is subject to a historical property contract executed pursuant to
the Mills Act.  R&T Code §439.  Similarly, “restricted historical property”
refers to property defined as qualified historical property under the Mills Act
that is subject to a historical property contract.  R&T Code §439.1.  No property shall be valued pursuant to
R&T Code section 439 et seq. unless such an enforceable restriction
is signed, accepted, and recorded on or before the lien date for the fiscal
year in which the valuation would apply. 
R&T Code §439.4.
 
            2.
Mills Act
            “Qualified
historical property” is privately owned property which is not exempt from
property taxation and is either (a) listed in the National Register of Historic
Places or located in a registered historic district, or (b) listed in any
state, city, county, or city and county official register of historical or
architecturally significant sites, places, or landmarks.   §50280.1. 
Upon an owner or agent’s application, the legislative body of a city,
county, or city and county may contract with the owner or agent to restrict the
use of the property in a manner which the legislative body deems reasonable to
carry out the purposes of the Mills Act and R&T Code section 439 et seq.  §50280. 
The contract shall meet the requirements of sections 50281 and
50282.  §50280.  
            Where
applicable, the contract with the owner of qualified historical property shall
provide for (1) preservation of the property and its restoration or
rehabilitation, where necessary, to conform to the rules and regulations of the
Office of Historic Preservation of the Department of Parks and Recreation, the
United States Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, and the
State Historical Building Code; and (2) inspection of the interior and
exterior of the premises by the city, county, or city and county, prior to a
new agreement, and every five years thereafter, to determine the owner’s compliance
with the contract.  §50281(b).  
The term of the contract shall be for a minimum of ten
years.  §50281(a).  Each contract shall provide that a year shall
be automatically added on the anniversary date of the contract, or on such
other date specified in the contract, unless notice of non-renewal is
given.  Each contract shall provide
that after five years, and every five years thereafter, the city, county, or
city and county shall inspect the interior and exterior of the premises to
determine the owner’s continued compliance with the contract.  §50282(a).
            If
the legislative body determines that the owner has breached any of the
conditions of the contract or has allowed the property to deteriorate to
the point that it no longer meets the standards for a qualified historical
property, the legislative body shall either (a) cancel the contract via the
procedures in sections 50285 and 50286 or (b) bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including an action for specific
performance or an injunction.  §50284.  No contract shall be cancelled until the
legislative body has given notice of, and held, a public hearing.  §50285. 
If the contract is cancelled, the owner shall pay a cancellation fee
equal to 12 ½ % of the current fair market value of the property.  §50286.
            As
an alternative to cancellation of the contract, a landowner that is a party
thereto may bring any action in court necessary to enforce a contract,
including by specific performance or injunction.  §50287. 

            
C. Demurrers
Demurrers are permitted in
administrative mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108, 1109.  A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where
the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain; (g) In an action founded on a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP sections 411.35 or
411.36.  CCP §430.10.  
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face
of the pleading includes attachments and incorporations by reference (Frantz
v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94), but it does not include
inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904,
914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  
The ultimate facts alleged
in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied
or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.  This rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken.  Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome
Estates, (“Vance”) (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A]
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the
statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC
Information Services, Inc., (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413.
            If a demurrer is
sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as
may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or amended
pleading shall be filed.  CCP §472a(c). 
However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue,
a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times,
absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded
that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
            D. Statement
of Facts[3]
            1. Mills
Act Legislative History
The 1972 version of section 50284
only allowed a legislative body to cancel a contract if it determined the Mills
Act property owner breached any of the conditions of the contract or allowed
the property to deteriorate to the point that it no longer met the standards
for a qualified historical property.  RJN
Ex. E.  The 2012 version allows the
legislative body to either cancel the contract per sections 50285 and 50286 or bring
any action in court needed to enforce it. 
RJN Ex. C.
            The 1972
version of section 50287 allowed “the county, city, or any landowner” to bring
any action in court necessary to enforce the contract.  RJN Ex. F. 
The 2012 version only allowed “a landowner that is a party to the
contract” to bring such an action.  RJN
Ex. D.
 
            2.
Meet and Confer   
            On December
4, 2023, the City sent NWOO a letter stating the reasons why City would demur
to the FAP.  Kaiulani Decl., ¶4, Ex.
I.  The parties met and conferred via
telephone on December 8, 2023, but could not reach an agreement.  Kaiulani Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.  The City has fulfilled its meet and confer requirement.
            
            E. Analysis
            Respondent
City demurs to the FAP on the basis that (1) a landowner not a party to a Mills
Act contract cannot bring an action to compel its enforcement, (2) the City has
no ministerial duty regarding the Mills Act Program, (3) mandamus to control
Mills Act Program expenditures violates the separation of powers doctrine, and (4)
any causes of action concerning the Jardinette Property are moot.
NWOO explains that the FAP’s first and fourth causes of
action respectively seek traditional mandamus for the City’s failure to comply
with art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act for the Jardinette Property and as
a pattern and practice for 950 historic properties receiving tax breaks.  The second cause of action is a taxpayer suit
under CCP section 526a based on the City’s failure to ensure that the public is
not deprived of full tax collections and historic preservation obligations by
the owners of the Jardinette Property. 
The third and fifth causes of action respectively seek declaratory
judgment and injunction on the ground that the City has violated, and will
continue to violate, the Mills Act for the Jardinette Property and
approximately 950 historic properties receiving tax breaks.
 
            1. Beneficial
Interest Standing
            The City
argues NWOO has no standing under the Mills Act to compel the City’s compliance
with the Jardinette Contract.  The FAP
identifies NWOO as the owner of property across an alley from the Jardinette
Property.  FAP, ¶10.  NWOO does not and cannot assert that it owns
the Jardinette Property or is a party to the Jardinette Contract.  Mot. at 13-15.
The Mills Act provides that, if a
legislative body determines that the owner of qualified historical property has
breached any of the conditions of the contract or has allowed the property to
deteriorate to the point that it no longer meets the standards for a qualified
historical property, the legislative body shall either (a) cancel the contract
via the procedures in sections 50285 and 50286 or (b) bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including an action for specific performance
or an injunction.  §50284.  As an alternative to cancellation of the
contract, a landowner that is a party thereto may bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including by specific performance or
injunction.  §50287.
 
a. Ministerial Versus
Discretionary Duty
A
ministerial duty is one a public officer is required to perform in a prescribed
manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority and without regard to his
own judgment or opinion concerning such act's propriety or impropriety, when a
given state of facts exists.  Lockyer
v. City and Cnty. of San Francisco, (2004), 33 Cal. 4th 1055, 1082.  Ellena v. Department of
Insurance, (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 198, 205. 
It is “essentially automatic based on whether certain fixed standards
and objective measures have been met.”  Sustainability
of Parks, Recycling & Wildlife Legal Defense Fund v. County of Solano Dept.
of Resource Mgmt., (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359.  In contrast, a discretionary act involves the
exercise of judgment by a public officer.  County of Los Angeles v. City of Los
Angeles, (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 653-54.  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial duty for which
mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a discretionary
function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS Healthcare
Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 693, 701. 
Mandamus will not lie to
compel the exercise of a public agency’s discretion in a particular manner.¿ American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water
District of Southern California, (“AFSCME”) (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th
247, 261.¿ However, it is available to compel an agency to exercise discretion
where it has not done so (Los Angeles County Employees Assn. v. County of
Los Angeles, (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 1, 8), and to correct an abuse of
discretion actually exercised.¿ Manjares v. Newton, (1966) 64 Cal.2d
365, 370-71.¿ In making this determination, the court may not substitute its
judgment for that of the agency, whose decision must be upheld if reasonable
minds may disagree as to its wisdom.¿ Id. at 371.¿ A writ will lie where
the agency’s discretion can be exercised only in one way.¿ Hurtado v.
Superior Court, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579.¿ Courts
exercise limited review out of deference to the
constitutional separation of powers, the presumed expertise of executive
agencies acting within the scope of their authority, and the presumption that
agencies have complied with their official duties.  Schwartz v. Poizner,
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 592, 598.  The court should also presume
that officials have complied with official duties in conducting any
investigation.  Evid. Code §664.  Id. 
 
a. Standing to Enforce a Mills
Act Contract
According to the City, it does not
have a duty to enforce a Mills Act contract upon the insistence of NWOO, which
is a third-party landowner, or to operate under the schedule NWOO elects.  The City argues that its duties under the
Mills Act are discretionary, not ministerial. 
The enforcement provisions only apply after the City has determined that
a Mills Act contract has been breached or that the owner has allowed the
property to deteriorate so that it no longer qualifies as an historical
property.  Once this determination is
made, the City has the discretion to either cancel the contract or bring an
enforcement action against the property owner. 
Given that the City must schedule the inspection of Mills Act properties,
and those inspections will differ depending on the nature of the property, the
City further has discretion in the scheduling and handling of those
inspections.  The timing of the City’s
enforcement of Mills Act contracts is a non-justiciable issue and “[a]
citizen’s mere dissatisfaction with the performance of either the legislative or
executive branches, or disagreement with their policies does not constitute a
justiciable controversy.”  Zetterberg
v. State Dept. of Public Health, (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 66576, 662-65 (taxpayer
could not challenge Department of Public Health’s and CARB’s failure to address
air pollution).  Dem. at 16, 18; Reply at
5.
The City points out that section
50284 permits it to take action when it determines that a property owner is in
breach of its Mills Act contract or the Mills Act property has deteriorated to
the point that it no longer meets the standards for an historical
property.  Section 50287 permits an
enforcement action by a landowner that is a party to a Mills Act contract, but it
does not permit a third-party landowner to take action.  Dem. at 14.
The inability of a third-party
landowner such as NWOO to file an enforcement action for a Mills Act contract
is underscored by the legislative history of sections 50284 and 50287. The
1972 version of section 50284 did not allow a legislative body to bring
enforcement actions.  A legislative body could
only cancel a contract if it determined that the Mills Act property owner breached
any of the conditions of the contract or allowed the property to deteriorate to
the point that it no longer met the standards for a qualified historical
property.  RJN Ex. E.  The 1972 version of section 50287 allowed “the
county, city, or any landowner” to bring any action in court necessary to
enforce the contract.  RJN Ex. F.  
The 2012 version of section
50284 allows a legislative body to either cancel the contract per sections
50285 and 50286 or bring any action needed to enforce it.  RJN Ex. C.  The 2012 version deleted
authorization for any landowner to bring an action and only allows “a landowner
that is a party to the contract” to bring an action to enforce the contract.  RJN Ex. D. 
See People v. Tingcungo, (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 249, 256
(deletion of text in statutory amendment means that statute “should not be
construed to include the omitted portion”).
The City concludes, and the
court agrees, that the language of the Mills Act, as shown by its legislative
history, does not permit a third-party landowner such as NWOO to file a lawsuit
to enforce a Mills Act contract.  Dem. at
15.
 
c. Ministerial Duty
NWOO argues that the FAP does not seek
to enforce Mills Act contracts.  Rather,
it seeks to compel the City to comply with its obligation to perform the
mandatory five-year inspection of Mills Act properties required by both art.
XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act.  Opp.
at 13-14.
The FAP alleges that, when the City
engaged Chattel to review the Mills Act Program, its report concluded the
Program fails to meet state law inspection
requirements.  FAP, ¶¶ 50-52.  Only two City staff members administer the
program on a part-time basis for 948 properties.  FAP, ¶52. 
State law requires compliance inspections every five years for each
property, yet the City completes only 25% of the required inspections
annually.  FAP, ¶¶ 53, 110.  NWOO asserts that this failure will continue
without mandamus or declaratory relief. 
Opp. at 15-16.
Unless otherwise provided by the
California Constitution or federal law, all property is taxable and shall be
assessed at the same percentage of fair market value.  art. XIII, §1(a).  To promote the preservation of property of
historical significance, the California Constitution authorizes the Legislature
to define such property and provide that, when the land is enforceably
restricted in a manner specified by the Legislature to a specified use, it shall
be valued for property tax purposes only on a basis that is consistent with its
restrictions and uses.  art. XIII, §8.  The R&T Code defines “enforceably
restricted” for purposes of art. XIII, section 8 as property that is subject to
a historical property contract executed pursuant to the Mills Act.  R&T Code §439. 
NWOO notes that the Mills Act was passed in 1972 but
was declared unconstitutional because it violated art. XIII, section 1(a).  In 1976, the voters passed Prop. 7, now art.
XIII, section 8, which amended the Constitution and permitted the Legislature
to define property of historical significance. 
Prop. 7 stated that, when property is enforceably restricted in a manner
specified by the Legislature, it shall be valued for property tax purposes on a
basis consistent with its restrictions and uses.  Prop. 7 permitted the Mills Act to become law
and it includes Prop. 7’s “enforceably restricted” standards in sections 50280
and 50281.  Opp. at 9.
NWOO argues that the reduced
property taxes for Mills Act properties are authorized only through the art.
III, section 8 exception to the general requirement of art. XIII, section 1(a)
that all property shall be assessed at the same percentage of fair market
value.  The Mills Act requires the City
to inspect the subject historic properties at least every five years to determine
the owner’s compliance with the Mills Act, and then authorizes discretionary
enforcement under section 50284.  The
property tax reduction benefit in the Mills Act is only available for
properties restored and maintained as required by art. XIII, section 8 and the
Mills Act.  Opp. at 14.
The City’s refusal to conduct
inspections for 75% of Mills Act properties and refusal to enforce or cancel
Mills Act contracts violates art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act.  While courts generally accord administrative
agency boards and officers with discretion, such boards and officers may not
refuse to act, or act with unfettered discretion and mandamus may issue to
compel the exercise of discretion and to do so under a proper interpretation of
law.  California Assn. of Sanitation
Agencies v. State Water Control Board, (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1438,
1461-62.  Similarly, declaratory relief
is available to challenge an administrative agency’s policy of ignoring or
violating applicable laws and regulations. 
Californians for Native Salmon etc. Assn. v. Department of Forestry,
(1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1419, 1426-30. 
Opp. at 15-16.
NWOO acknowledges that no appellate case
interprets the relationship between art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills
Act.  NWOO relies on Lewis v. City of
Hayward, (“Lewis”) (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 103, where the court
interpreted the constitutionality under art. XIII, section 8 of a provision of
the Williamson Act, which permits a legislative body to enter into a contract
with a landowner restricting the use of property to agriculture.  Id. at 107.  The provision at issue authorized the
landowner a one-time opportunity to cancel the contract.  Id. 
The petitioner argued that the so-called “window provision” permitted
easy cancellation of the Williamson Act contract and rendered its restrictions
illusory under art. XIII, section 8.  Id.  The trial court found that the window
provision did not facially conflict with art. XIII, section 8 because the
Legislature has the exclusive power to determine the manner of an enforceable
restriction.  Id.
The appellate court disagreed,
holding that the window provision violated the “enforceable restrictions” requirement
of art. XIII, section 8.  The Constitution
does not authorize the Legislature to define the term “enforceable
restrictions” and, even if it did, art. XIII, section 8 does not permit a
definition which renders such restrictions ineffective for land conservation
purposes.  Id. at 113.  “To pass constitutional muster, a restriction
must be enforceable in the face of imminent urban development, and may not be
terminable merely because such development is desirable or profitable to the
landowner.”  Ibid.  Because the provision at issue allowed
termination of a Williamson Act contract merely because development is imminent
-- and the land now will be more valuable -- without concern for the public’s
interest in the policies underlying art. XIII, section 8 and the Williamson
Act, it was unconstitutional.  Id.
            Based on Lewis,
NWOO argues that the City’s inspections under section 50281 and 50282 are
constitutionally required to assure that historic property is rehabilitated,
restored, and maintained as promised for the public benefit.  MWOO further argues that enforcement of a
Mills Act contract is not a matter of legislative discretion; it is mandatory
and must be determined with concern for the public’s interest in the policies
underlying art. XIII, section and the Mills Act. See Lewis, supra,
177 Cal.App.3d at 113.  Opp. at 15.
In response, the City argues that, unlike Lewis, this case does not
involve art. XIII, section 8.  Reply at
4.  The City is incorrect.  The FAP asserts that the City has allowed property
owners to benefit from illegal and wrongful tax reductions,[4] which has harmed and will continue to harm the general
public.  FAP, ¶55.  The requested relief includes a writ of
mandate and declaration compelling the City to comply with art. XIII, section 8
and the Mills Act with respect to all historical properties.  FAP ¶80, Prayer, ¶¶ 4-5.  
The City then argues
that the Mills Act inspection requirement is discretionary.  Section 50281(b) provides only that “[w]here
applicable” a Mills Act contract shall provide for (1)
preservation of the property and its restoration or rehabilitation, and (2)
inspection of the interior and exterior of the premises by the city every five
years to determine the owner’s compliance with the contract.  The City argues that the “where applicable”
language in section 50281(b) gives it the discretion whether to include an
inspection provision in a Mills Act contract. 
This means that the City has discretion for the extent, type, and
schedule of Mills Act contract inspections. 
This makes sense because different historical properties – e.g., single
family, multi-family, commercial, exterior only – may be the subject of an
historical property contract and the City needs flexibility to tailor
inspections and schedules.  Dem. at 18;
Reply at 5.
NWOO properly rebuts this argument.  Opp. at 9, n. 1.  Section 50281(b)’s “where applicable”
language does not give the City discretion to decide if a five-year inspection
is required.  This is demonstrated by
section 50282(a), which unconditionally provides: “Each contract shall also provide
that after five years, and every five years thereafter, the city, county, or
city and county shall inspect the interior and exterior of the premises to
determine the owner’s continued compliance with the contract.”  §50282(a). 
The “where applicable” language in section 50281(a) more appropriately should
be interpreted as a condition precedent – that is, it refers to the situation
where the property owner has met the threshold requirement of qualified historical
property.
The City further argues that mandamus is not available to
compel an agency’s means and timing of enforcement.  Riggs v. City of Oxnard, (1984)
154 Cal.App.3d 526, 530 (city was not compelled too issue criminal citation for
violation of zoning ordinance).  The City
argues that the word “shall” in section 50281(b)’s reference to five-year
inspections does not make performance of a discretionary act mandatory.   See California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services, (“Health Services”)
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 708 (where law stated that agency shall perform
annual review of rates to ensure compliance with federal regulation, annual
review was mandatory but compliance with federal regulation was not); Larson
v. Redondo Beach, (1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 332, 337-38 (demurrer sustained
where language in ordinances and leases did not mandate fair and reasonable
boat slip rate).  The City adds that its enforcement
discretion under the Mills Act to impose or schedule inspections, as well as
enforce the contract terms and elect remedies, is analogous to a city’s
discretionary nuisance abatement authority that cannot be compelled by a
private party’s mandamus action.  Taliaferro
v. Locke, (1960) 182 Cal.App.2d 752, 755-56, 757 (mandamus does not lie for
matters of investigation and prosecution by district attorney).  Dem. at 18-20.
            The City
distinguishes Lewis because it did not address a statute where the
legislature intended to exclude a third-party landowner from enforcing a public
agency contract.  Moreover, the
cancellation provision in Lewis directly contradicted the Williamson Act
purpose to preserve open and agricultural spaces.  Reply at 4. 

The court agrees with the City.  The City has a mandatory duty pursuant to
Mills Act sections 50281(b) and 50282(a) to inspect the interior
and exterior of a Mills Act property to determine the owner’s compliance with
the contract.”  This mandatory inspection
duty is distinguishable from the City’s discretionary duties of determining that a Mills Act contract has been breached or that the owner
has allowed the property to deteriorate so that it no longer qualifies as an
historical property and deciding to either cancel the contract or bring an
enforcement action against the property owner. 
The City also has discretion to schedule the timing of inspections so
long as they occur every five years.  This
split between mandatory and discretionary statutory duties occurred in a case
cited by the City, See Health Services, supra, 148
Cal.App.4th at 708, where an annual review was ministerial because it was statutorily
mandated but compliance with the operative federal regulation was not.  
Despite its ministerial nature, the
City’s duty to perform mandatory inspections is not enforceable by a third
party.  Unlike Lewis, the City’s
failure to inspect every five years does not directly contradict the purpose of
art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act.  Rather, any failure to inspect is a failure of
contract and statutorily required performance, not a failure of the art. XIII,
section 8 and Mills Act purpose that property be enforceably
restricted.  The Mills
Act Program properties remain enforceably restricted whether or not the City
complies with its inspection duty.  Additionally,
the City is correct that the Mills Act precludes a third party from enforcing
Mills Act contracts.[5]
The City’s breach of its mandatory duty to inspect every
five years is not enforceable by third parties under the Mills Act.
                        
2. Public Interest Standing in Mandamus
Cases
NWOO argues that the 2012 amendment
to the Mills Act did not affect established rights to challenge illegal
government actions through mandamus or taxpayer suit.  Opp. at 13.           
NWOO cites Common Cause v. Board
of Supervisors (“Common Cause”), (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 439, in which
the petitioners asserted taxpayer standing under CCP section 526a.  The California Supreme Court found no need to
assess taxpayer standing because there was a public interest exception for a mandamus
claim to the general requirement that a petitioner have a personal beneficial
interest in the proceeding.  Id.
at 439.  When the question is one of
public right, and the object of the mandamus is to procure the enforcement of a
public duty, the relator need not show that he has any legal or special
interest in the result.  Id.  
In Common Cause, the county
cited the language of Elections Code section 304, which at the time directed Secretary
of State to formulate regulations requiring counties to develop and implement
voter outreach programs.  Id.  at 440. 
The Supreme Court found this statute did not limit the right of private
citizens to sue to enforce the section.  Id.  To infer that limitation would contradict
longstanding approval of citizen actions to require governmental officials to
follow the law.  Id.  This approval was reflected in both the
court’s expansive interpretation of taxpayer standing and the public interest
exception to the requirement that a mandamus petitioner have a personal
beneficial interest in the proceedings.  Id.  In the absence of an express limitation on
citizen standing or indication of legislative intent to confer exclusive powers
on the Attorney General, the Supreme Court declined to impose such a limitation
on citizen actions to enforce Elections Code 302.  Id. 

As the City notes (Reply at 3-4), Common
Cause does not significantly aid NWOO. 
Unlike that case, the 2012 amendments to the Mills Act are an indication
of legislative intent that only a landowner who is a party to the Mills Act
contract -- not any landowner -- to bring an action to enforce the
contract.  This change in statutory
language reflects a legislative intent to bar landowners who are not a party to
the Mills Act contract from bringing an enforcement action.  Reply at 3-4. 
Public interest standing is not available in light of the express
limitations of section 50287, as amended.[6]
If public interest standing could
apply, its elements are: (1) whether the public duty is sharp and the public
need weighty, (2) whether the policy supporting public interest standing is
outweighed by competing considerations of a more urgent nature, and (3) whether
the claim of public interest standing is driven by personal objectives rather
than broad public concerns.  SJJC
Aviation Services, LLC v. City of San Jose, (“SJJC Aviation”) (2017)
12 Cal.App.5th 1043, 1058.
            NWOO argues
that the public interest at issue is taxes and preservation of historic
property (i.e., public fisc and the environment).  There is a constitutional mandate in art.
XIII, section 8 to enforceably restrict the special tax exemption in the Mills
Act.  The Chattel report shows that the
City has failed to conduct 75% of the required inspections of the approximately
950 historic properties with special tax benefits.  The Jardinette Property is an example of the
results of this failure.  It is in
deplorable condition and the owners have reaped tax benefits while the public
has suffered the loss.  Millions of
dollars of property taxes have gone uncollected due to the City’s
failures.  NWOO concludes that the public
duty is sharp and the public need is weighty. 
Opp. at 17.
The court agrees that the public
interest is the City’s fair and equitable collection of property tax
revenue.  However, the duty involved is
the City’s duty to inspect Mills Act properties every five years.  The court does not agree that this public
duty is sharp or the public need weighty. 
Public interest standing is an exception to the usual requirement that
the petitioner have a beneficial interest in the agency action that is
challenged.  SJJC Aviation, supra,
12 Cal.App.5th at 1057.  Reply at 4.  The City’s inspection duty is only a
precursor to its discretionary enforcement duties.  The performance of this ministerial duty benefits
no member of the public unless the City exercises that discretion.  As a result, the public duty to inspect is not
sharp and the public need for inspection is not weighty. 
            For the
second factor, NWOO argues that the public policy is set forth in art. XIII,
section 8 and is not outweighed by any competing policy.  There is no policy allowing the City to
provide tax breaks in violation of the Constitution and Mills Act.  Opp. at 17. 
The court agrees.
            For the
third factor, NWOO owns the property directly across the alley and pays
property taxes.  FAP, ¶10.  NWOO argues that its objective of
rehabilitation of historic properties and fair taxation is shared by the
interests of the public.  Opp. at 17.  Where the claim of public interest standing
is driven by personal objectives rather than broad public concerns, the court
may find the petitioner lacks such standing. 
SJJC Aviation, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at 1057.  NWOO’s personal stake in seeing the
Jardinette Property rehabilitated is a personal objective that undermines its
claim of public interest standing.
            NWOO does
not have public interest mandamus standing.
            
            3. Taxpayer
Standing 
            CCP
section 526a provides as relevant: “An action to obtain a judgment, restraining
and preventing any illegal expenditure of, waste of, or injury to, the estate,
funds, or other property of a county, town, city or city and county of the
state, may be maintained against any officer thereof, or any agent, or other
person, acting in its behalf, either by a citizen resident therein, or by a
corporation, who is assessed for and is liable to pay, or, within one year
before the commencement of the action, has paid, a tax therein.”  
A taxpayer may bring an
action under CCP section 526a by establishing that (1) he or she is a taxpayer
and (2) either an illegal expenditure or waste within the meaning of this
section has occurred.  Tobe v. City of Santa Ana, 1995) 9 Cal.4th 1069,
1086; Connerly v. State Personnel Bd., (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 16, 29.  “It is established that an action lies under section 526a not
only to enjoin wasteful expenditures, but also to enforce the government’s duty
to collect funds due to the State.”  Myers
v. Board of Equalization, (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 722, 744 (mandamus to
compel State to assess and collect tax on gross premiums received by two health
insurance entities).
NWOO contends that it seeks to enforce
the City’s mandatory duty to timely inspect and identify non-compliant Mills
Act contract properties so that it can correct illegal tax benefits.  This is distinct from the City’s separation
of powers argument that the City has committed waste because it has not
expended the resources to make Mills Act enforcement decisions.  This case is not about how to spend money to
inspect Mills Act properties; it is about a mandatory duty.  Opp. at 21.
The problem with NWOO’s argument is
that the City’s only mandatory duty is to inspect.  As the City argues (Dem. at 20-22; Reply at
6), the crux of NWOO’s claim is that the City has not made the prerequisite
five-year inspections for enforcement of Mills Act contracts and recapture of
taxes improperly received.  A claim of
waste under CCP section 526a requires more than “an alleged mistake of public
officials in matters involving the exercise of judgment or wide discretion.”  Sundance v. Municipal Court, (“Sundance”)
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 1101, 1138-39. Taxpayer suits
are authorized only if the government body has a duty to act and has refused to
do so.  If it has discretion and chooses
not to act, the courts may not interfere with that decision.”  Daily Journal v. County of Los Angeles,
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557-58.   The courts
restrictively interpret the word “waste” in CCP section 526a actions to prevent
claims for failure to maintain public property or to pursue a legal claim.  See Mohler v. County of Santa Clara,
(2023) 2023 WL 388770 (affirming sustaining of demurrer for waste claim that
county failed to maintain airport); Silver v. Watson, (1972) 26
Cal.App.3d 905,910 (affirmed sustaining of demurrer for taxpayer’s suit to
compel board of supervisors to sue for unpaid property taxes).  Without the exercise of the City’s
discretionary enforcement duties, there can be no waste through a failure to
collect sufficient property taxes.  NWOO does
not have standing under CCP section 526a.[7]            
 
            F. Conclusion
            The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
Although NWOO seeks leave to amend, it fails to show how it could do so.  An OSC re: dismissal is set for March 21,
2024 at 9:30 a.m.


