 Case Number:  21STCV35044    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  74 Ross v. Los
Angeles County et al. 
Defendant Los Angeles County
Employees Retirement Association Demurrer
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
demurrer arises out of a retirement plan employment discrimination case.  Plaintiff Alice Ross (Plaintiff) alleges that
defendants Department of Child and Family Services (DCFS) and Los Angeles
County Employees Retirement Association (LACERA) negligently failed to enroll
Plaintiff in the proper retirement plan and then retaliated against Plaintiff
for filing a complaint.  
            Plaintiff
filed her initial complaint against DCFS on September 22, 2021.  Plaintiff did not add LACERA as a defendant until
filing the First Amended Complaint on February 9, 2024. Plaintiff alleges
against defendant LACERA four causes of action: Negligence; Negligent Misrepresentation;
Retaliation; and Failure to Prevent Retaliation. LACERA demurs to the first
amended complaint on the grounds that, among other fatal defects, the claims
against LACERA are time-barred. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
Plaintiff
alleges she submitted a sworn statement electing to enroll in Plan D when she
began employment in 1984.  (Complaint, ¶¶
17-19.)  In June 1999, Plaintiff was
aware that she had not been enrolled in Plan D and attempted to transfer herself
to Plan D.  (Complaint, ¶ 20.)  On January 24, 2020, Plaintiff became aware
that she had not been enrolled in Plan D, and was enrolled in Plan E.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 21-22.)  Over the course of 2020, Plaintiff attempted
to locate the sworn statement she had submitted in 1999.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 24-29.)  No payroll contributions had been taken from
her paycheck, as required by Plan D. 
(Complaint, ¶ 30.) 
LACERA
alleges that Plaintiff’s complaints are time-barred because the Plaintiff seeks
to assert a right to a pension.  Pension
rights are statutory, and therefore, must be brought within three years of
accrual.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 338(a); see
also Dillion v. Board of Pension Com’rs (1941) 18 Cal.2d 427, 429.)  The statute of limitations begins when the
cause of action has “accrued.”  (Leahey
v. Department of Water & Power (1946) 76 Cal.App.2d 281,286.)  In Leahey, the cause of action accrued
when the Plaintiff was entitled to a classification, not 16 years after.  Here, Plaintiff’s cause of action alleging
misclassification accrued when Plaintiff was entitled to join Plan D, either in
1984 when Plaintiff selected Plan D, in 1999 when Plaintiff attempted to
transfer into Plan D, or in 2020 when Plaintiff realized she was not in Plan
D.  (Complaint, ¶ 17-18, 20-21.)
Plaintiff
has not opposed the demurrer to allege any tolling or relation-back of her
claims against LACERA to the original complaint. Therefore, the statute of
limitations has run. Plaintiff’s first cause of action for negligence thus fails.

Plaintiff’s
second cause of action alleges negligent misrepresentation.  The statute of limitations for a negligent
misrepresentation claim is three years after the misrepresentation is
discovered.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. §
338(d).)  Plaintiff alleges that she
discovered the failure to enroll in 2020. 
The statute of limitations against LACERA in the second cause of action
has run.
Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for retaliation under the Fair Employment and Housing
Act (FEHA) section 12940(h) is a liability created by statute.  The statute of limitations for the fourth
cause of action is three years.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 338(a).)  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s statute of limitations against LACERA in the fourth cause of action
has run.
Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action for failure to prevent retaliation under FEHA section
12940(k) is a liability created by statute. 
The statute of limitations for the fifth cause of action is three
years.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 338(a).)  Therefore, Plaintiff’s statute of limitations
against LACERA in the fifth cause of action has run.
Given
that the statute of limitations has run against LACERA in all causes of action,
the court sustains LACERA’s demurrer.
 
Leave to Amend
            Leave
to amend should be liberally granted, but Plaintiff is required to show the
reasonable possibility that an amended complaint can state a viable cause of
action.  (Goodman, supra,
18 Cal. 3d at p. 348.)  Here, Plaintiff
has made no such showing.  Therefore, the
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
The
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend.
            Defendant to give notice.