  Case Number:  12STCV30239    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  74 The
Wonderful Company v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, et
al.
Defendant Lucile Packard Children’s
Hospital Motion to Seal Documents
 
BACKGROUND  
This
action arises out of a contract dispute. On August 23, 2024, LPCH filed its
motion to seal portions of LPCH’s reply in support of LPCH’s motion for summary
judgment.
            
LEGAL STANDARD 
            Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
the public. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently,
pleadings, motions, evidence, and other papers may not be filed under seal
merely by stipulation of the parties; rather, a prior court order is necessary.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (a).)  
The
governing rule is Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d) which states “that the
court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds
facts that establish:  

There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
     right of public access to the record; 


The overriding interest supports sealing the
     record; 


A substantial probability exists that the overriding
     interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 


The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 


No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
     overriding interest.” 

If
the court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and
cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) Sanctions may be imposed for overboard requests to
seal. (Id. at p. 500.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
             LPCH identifies for sealing confidential
medical information for two minor patients. Personally identifiable health
information is protected by an overriding interest in privacy. (Ruiz v.
Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 850.)
The
proposed sealing of (1) portions of LPCH’s reply in support of its Motion for Summary
Judgment, (2) portions of LPCH’s Reply Separate Statement, (3) portions of
LPCH’s Evidentiary objections, (4) portions of LPCH’s Responses to TWC’s
Evidentiary Objections to LPCH’s Motion for Summary Judgment, (5) portions of
the [Proposed] order re: LPCH’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  The portions are narrowly tailored to
information regarding the personally identifiable information of non-party
minors.  The court agrees that no less
restrictive means exist.
The
court will sign without modification the proposed order to seal filed on August
23, 2024.
            Defendant
shall give notice.