 Case Number:  21STCV44650    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAISY
  SEGURA-CAMPOS,  
  
         vs.
 
PERFORMANCE
  COMPOSITES, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV44650
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 23, 2024



 
Plaintiff Daisy Segura-Campos’
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiff may file the proposed third amended
complaint with the Court.
 
          Plaintiff Daisy
Segura-Campos (“Segura-Campos”) (“Plaintiff”) moves for and order
granting leave to file a third amended complaint (“TAC”) and deeming the TAC
filed.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-6.)
 Plaintiff moves on the
basis that such motions are liberally granted, no prejudice accrues to
Defendants, and Plaintiff has good cause for the amendments she seeks.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
 
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed her initial complaint (“Complaint”) on December 7, 2021.  Defendant Performance Composites, Inc.
(“Performance Composites”) (“Defendant”) filed a Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against
Defendant Pro Employer Staffing, LLC (“Pro Employer”) (“Defendant”) on March 23,
2022.  On May 2, 2022, Pro Employer filed
its Answer to the CC.
          On May 26,
2022, Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint (“FAC”).  On August 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
operative second amended complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Performance
Composites, Pro Employer, and Gabriel Martinez (“Martinez”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging four causes of action: (1) sexual harassment in
violation of FEHA; (2) failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent
harassment and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation
of FEHA; and (4) wrongful termination in violation of public policy.
          On July 6,
2023, Pro Employer filed its Answer to the SAC. 
On July 11, 2023, Martinez filed his Answer to the SAC.  On July 12, 2023, Performance Composites
filed its Answer to the SAC.
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for leave to amend the SAC on September 11, 2023.  Pro Employer filed its opposition on January
9, 2024.  Performance Composites also
filed its opposition on January 9, 2024. 
Martinez filed his joinder to Performance Composites’ opposition on
January 10, 2024.  As of the date of this
hearing Plaintiff has not filed a reply.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed TAC.  (Decl. of Byrnes ¶2, Exh. 1.)   Plaintiff’s
motion sets forth the allegations proposed to be added and deleted, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the proposed additions/deletions are
located.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 2-6; CRC Rule 3.1324(a)(3).) 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiff submitted a separate declaration from
her counsel that specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why the
amendments are necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Byrnes ¶¶3-4.)  Plaintiff
asserts the amendments are necessary because this Court previously struck punitive
damages allegations, and the deposition of HR Manager Daysi Bellamy (“Bellamy”)
has since demonstrated they should be included.  (Decl. of Byrnes ¶4.)  Plaintiff asserts that although the
clarification that Labor Code §230(e) is included is not actually necessary, it
is proper to give unambiguous notice to Defendants given the evidence since
discovered, and although not necessary, correcting the typos, mistakes, and
filling in previously unknown witness names is proper as long as the other
amendments are being made.  (Decl. of Byrnes ¶4.)  
Plaintiff’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier; Plaintiff’s
counsel declares, “the facts giving rise to the additional allegations were discovered
during the deposition of Bellamy on August 16, 2023,” and “the request for
amendment was not made earlier because the information wasn’t known earlier,”
and that during the deposition, Bellamy testified that she took action on
Plaintiff’s employment because of her domestic violence issues, and that
Bellamy creates company policy herself and has the independent authority and
judgment to do so.  (Decl. of Byrnes ¶¶5-6,
11.)  Plaintiff’s counsel declares few months after filing the original
complaint in this matter, he became gravely ill, resulting in significant delay
in the litigation of this matter and did not notice prior references to
Plaintiff being subjected to domestic violence. 
(See Decl.
of Byrnes ¶¶8-10.)
Pro
Employer argues it will be prejudiced by this Court granting leave to amend
because Plaintiff would add additional claims and previously unpled facts
against Defendants, and thereby dramatically change the nature of this case
less than three months before trial, which would require extensive discovery on
newly alleged facts and would necessitate delay.  (Opposition Pro Employer, pg. 6; Decl. of
Schwettmann ¶9.)  Performance Composites,
joined by Martinez, argue they will be prejudiced by this Court granting leave
to amend because Plaintiff would be allowed to add new claims on the eve of
trial, and should Plaintiff be granted leave to amend her complaint four months
before trial, Performance Composites will be essentially precluded from
properly investigating Plaintiff’s claims for domestic violence
discrimination/retaliation under Labor Code §230(e) due to the sheer scope of
discovery it must complete prior to the discovery cut-off of April 2, 2024.  (Opposition Performance Composites, pg. 7.)
The
Court notes Defendants’ arguments on the timing of the motion and the impending
trial date currently set for April 29, 2024. 
However, the policy favoring amendment is so strong that denial of leave
to amend can rarely be justified: “If the motion to amend is timely made
and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, emphasis added; see Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596 [citing text]; Bettencourt v. Hennessy Industries, Inc. (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1103, 1111 [abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend when
there is a “reasonable possibility” that defect can be cured].)
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a TAC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file the proposed TAC with the Court within 7
days.  
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  