  Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
PLAINTIFFS KIMBERLY DAVIS AND
JONATHAN DAVIS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PERSON MOST QUALIFIED OF GOOGLE,
LLC
 
Date
of Hearing:        April 3, 2024                          Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis
Responding Party:     Non-Party Google, LLC 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). 
 
On August 18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and
Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly Ann Davis, Compass
California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason Improta for breach of
contract, money had and received, implied indemnification, express
indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants dismissed
their cause of action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most
Qualified of Google, LLC is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs
request this court take judicial notice of several court documents (RJN Exhs.
1-7.) The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis move the court for an order compelling Google, LLC to provide the
person(s) most qualified for Google to be deposed. Plaintiffs make the motion
on the grounds that Google, LLC has failed to provide a person most
knowledgeable from Google for deposition, which seek basic information that is
highly material to the adjudication of this matter. Plaintiffs also request this
court award Plaintiffs an award of $11,890 against Google, LLC as sanctions for
having to file this motion. 
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.¿ (CCP § 2025.010.)¿ A
deposition subpoena may command the attendance and the testimony of a nonparty
deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿(CCP § 2020.020.) 
If a nonparty deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.¿ (CCP §§ 2024.480, 2025.480.)¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs argue in this case, Google,
LLC has entirely refused to produce a “person most qualified” witness even
though the identity of the person who created and utilized the
kadavislaw1967@gmail.com email address is one of the biggest issues in this
case. Plaintiffs contend this entire case stems from the fact that someone electronically
forged the Plaintiffs' name on a multi-year lease with an option to buy in an
effort to steal the Plaintiffs' home. Plaintiffs further argue Google, LLC’s
objections are meritless. 
 
In opposition, Google argues it has
already authenticated those records by a certificate of authenticity, as
permitted by California law, and the records produced speak for themselves.
Nothing more is required from Google. Google further argues it is not clear
that it could provide the kind of testimony that Plaintiffs require. Google
contends it can only provide Plaintiffs with the data it has and Plaintiffs
must make their own conclusions from the data, either by expert witness or otherwise.
Google cannot establish who was actually sitting at a computer at the time the
account was registered or used. 

The court finds the Certificate of
Authenticity does not obviate the need to depose Google, LLC’s PMK. It is true business
records may be authenticated by a certificate of authenticity. (Evid. Code
§§1561, 1562.) However, the law does not permit a witness to submit a
certificate of authenticity in lieu of live testimony. Plaintiffs have
demonstrated the answers sought are subject to discovery as many of the records
are not self-explanatory and could readily be clarified in a short deposition.
If Google is unable to give a truthful and responsive answer to the questions
asked, Google may state so. Moreover, it does not appear to this court
Plaintiff is seeking to elicit expert testimony from Google but only basic factual
information and the meaning of the terms by Google.  
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests $11,890 in monetary
sanctions to be awarded against Google for Google’s refusal to sit for a
deposition. 
 
“If a deponent on whom a deposition
subpoena has been served fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as
a witness, the court may impose on the deponent the sanctions described
in¿Section 2020.240.” (CCP § 2025.440(b).)  “If a motion under
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with¿Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Google argues Google fully complied
with its discovery obligations under the Subpoena, raised meritorious
objections, informed Plaintiffs that it would not appear for deposition,
engaged in meet and confer efforts with Plaintiff, and offered to amend its
certificate of authenticity as needed. As such, sanctions aren’t warranted. 
 
The court finds that Google acted with
substantial justification.  The request is DENIED. 