 Case Number:  23VECV03956    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  W RAUL ULISES SEGOVIA v. VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
OF AMERICA, INC.
 
PlaintiffS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Date of Hearing:        April
3, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03956
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Raul Ulises Segovia 
Responding Party:     Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises in the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. On
September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant for 1.
Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Express Warranty; 2. Violation of
Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Implied Warranty; and 3. Violation of The Song-
Beverly Act Section 1793.2. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Raul Ulises Segovia moves for an order to strike
Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.’s objections and compel further
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request
Nos. 1 – 31. Plaintiff brings the motion on the grounds that Defendant´s
objections are not code-compliant and that Defendant failed to provide adequate
responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, which seek documents relevant to the asserted
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act causes of action. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2031.310] shall comply with both of the following: (1) The motion shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand. (2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”¿(CCP § 2031.310(b).) In addition, a separate statement
is required.¿(CRC 3.1345(a)(3).)
 
Plaintiff argues Requests 1 through 14
seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s own vehicle. To prevail on a claim under
Song-Beverly, Plaintiff must prove a nonconformity with a vehicle that substantially
impaired its use, value, or safety that Defendant, and/or its authorized representatives,
failed to repair after a reasonable number of attempts. Requests 15 through 29
seek documents reflecting Defendant’s written warranties and the policies and procedures,
which would support Plaintiff’s claim for civil penalties in that it will show Defendant’s
awareness of a prevalent defect which neither Defendant, nor its authorized repair
facilities, could repair. Lastly, Requests 30 and 31 seek documents related to Defendant’s
knowledge of the same or similar defects in other vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the Subject Vehicle. According to Plaintiff, this would show whether
the manufacturer knew of the alleged defects, whether this knowledge be from
evidence that the Subject Vehicle was not repaired after a reasonable number of
attempts, or by virtue of internal investigations and warranty records of other
related vehicles showing that other consumers were similarly affected.
 
Defendant first opposes the motion on
the grounds Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to bringing
the motion. Defendant contends their counsel offered his availability to telephonically
meet and confer yet Plaintiff did not once bother to contact Volkswagen’s
counsel telephonically to meet and confer. Rather, Plaintiff served two generic
and inaccurate letters, then filed this Motion. Plaintiff
disputes the meet and confer was insufficient. Regardless, as the
correspondence makes clear, the parties have reached an impasse as to this
issue and the court will address the motion on its merits.  (See Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v.
Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 332.)  
 
Defendant next opposes the motion on the grounds it has not
waived objections regarding ESI. A party that fails to serve a timely response
to the discovery request waives any objection to the request, including one
based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (CCP
§2031.300(a).) Section 2031.210(d) further provides that a party that objects
to the discovery of electronically stored information “on the grounds that it
is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or
expense and that the responding party will not search the source in the absence
of an agreement with the demanding party or court order” must specifically
identify the types or categories of sources of electronically stored
information that it asserts are not readily accessible.  (CCP § 2031.210(d).)   
 
First, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
the responses were untimely. Next, Defendant objected to the requests on
grounds including that the requests were burdensome and overbroad. Although the
court grants Plaintiffs’ motion, the court finds that Defendant was
substantially justified in initially raising its objections and that it did not
waive its right to object to the scope of ESI.  

 
Defendant next argues this court should
deny the motion as to RFP Nos. 1-14 because Defendant has already provided
substantive responses and produced responsive documents. Specifically, the
documents produced in response to RFP Nos. 1-11 and 13-14 were organized as
Exhibits A through I. As for No. 12, Defendant provided that “… [a] diligent
search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with the
demand; however, the particular item or category has never existed.” (Petrosyan
Decl. ¶, Exh.E.) If Defendant has not produced all substantive documents in
their possession, they are ordered to do so. The court finds the objections are
without merit. Defendant fails to articulate what expert information is
necessary, as this is a request for production of documents that already exist.

 
As for RFP Nos. 15-29, Defendant argues
the documents at issue are confidential internal documents regarding
Defendant’s policies and procedures of Defendant’s warranty, repurchase, and
customer service programs and related training information. Despite this,
Defendant has already produced 485 pages of confidential documents regarding its
policies/procedures and training materials pertaining to the pre-litigation
handling of repurchase/replacement requests pursuant to the Stipulation.
Defendant notes RFP No. 22 is not in their possession and as for Nos. 23-29,
Defendant has already produced its policies and procedures provided to
authorized repair facilities. 
 
The court agrees the requests are
overbroad and moreover, the production must be upon execution of the standard
Stipulation and Protective Order. For example, No. 21 asks “All DOCUMENTS
evidencing and/or describing YOUR training materials related to YOUR policy
regarding how to calculate a repurchase.” However, this request is overbroad as it is without limitation as to whether the
training materials at issue would apply to Plaintiff’s vehicle, during the time
Plaintiff owned the vehicle, or to California consumers. As such, all requests
should be limited to such and produced as such pursuant to the executed
Protective Order.
 
Lastly, Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s request for further response to RFP Nos. 30 and 31 should be denied
because Plaintiff fails to establish good cause and moreover, the objections by
Defendant are proper as the requests are vague, overbroad and unduly
burdensome. The court disagrees. Plaintiff states Defendant’s knowledge of the
same or similar defects in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model
would establish Defendant’s knowledge and inability to repair the defects, as
well as its failure to adequately compensate Plaintiff with respect to the
Subject Vehicle despite Defendant’s inability to repair the vehicle within a reasonable
number of repair opportunities. Next, the requests are not so vague. No. 30 defines “Substantially Similar” as “similar customer complaint
that would be the same nature of the reported system, malfunction, trouble
code, Technical Service Bulletin Recommendation, dashboard indicator light, or
other manifestation of a repair problem, as description listed in any warranty
summary or repair order for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (RFP No. 30.)  It also includes
clarification that the request is not seeking routine or scheduled maintenance
items. (Id.) Moreover, Defendant has failed to explain why it stands to
be unduly burdened if it is required to produce such information. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
 
 