 Case Number:  23SMCV05304    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  CARL BARNEY,    Plaintiff, v.  SIENNA CHARLES, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05304     Hearing Date:  July 9, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO AND    MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED    COMPLAINT    BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract and fraud case.  Defendants Sienna Charles LLC and Jaclyn Sienna India-Reinert (“Ms. India”) provide bespoke travel services for high-wealth individuals.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶8.)  In mid-2021, Plaintiff Carl Barney “desired to obtain the services of a high level, full service VIP travel agency to arrange all of the details for his three-week trip to Europe.”  (Id. ¶9.)  He therefore spoke with Defendants about their services.  (Id. ¶10.)    Ms. India assured Plaintiff that she knew how to get her clients access to exclusive experiences that would otherwise be unavailable to them.  She claimed, in writing and orally, to be able to provide “extraordinary private travel and the ability for Plaintiff to access top experts for his vacations.”  (Id. ¶10.) Relying on these oral representations, Plaintiff paid $75,000 for the Europe trip and multiple additional trips he desired to have planned over a one year period (“July 1st Agreement”).  He describes the “July 1st Agreement” as a partially oral and partially written agreement to provide “full service planning and implementation of travel itineraries over the course of one year – from July 1, 2021 through June 20, 2022.”  (Id. ¶ 22.)  Under the July 1st Agreement, Defendants were to provide Plaintiff access to “the most exclusive luxury travel and lifestyle services available in the world” and to “comb[] the globe consistently procuring only the best in ultra-luxury living.”  (Id. ¶20.)  Plaintiff claims Defendants breached the July 1st Agreement by their “poor planning and lack of communication,” and Plaintiff’s staff was “forced to clean up their messes.”  (Id. ¶13.)  Specifically, Plaintiff’s staff was forced to book VIP suites, arrange last minute flights that could have been scheduled weeks in advance and book other appointments for things such as required Covid-19 testing.  (Id.) Pursuant to the July 1st Agreement, Plaintiff then sought to use Defendants’ services for a three-week trip to the Middle East.  (Id. ¶14.)  Plaintiff asked Defendants to prepare a proposed itinerary by September 7, 2021.  (Id. ¶ 16.)  Defendants ignored the request, instead providing a proposed “agenda” on September 14, 2021 which failed to include any specific dates (or even number of days) for visiting any of the countries and no details of available activities that Defendants could curate.  (Id.)  This action ensued.   The operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, (3) unjust enrichment and imposition of constructive trust and (4) unfair business practices.    This hearing is on Defendants’ demurrer to and motion to strike the complaint.  Defendants’ demurrer is based on the grounds that (1) the FAC does not allege any actual contract or contractual terms; (2) Defendants’ alleged breach of contract doesn’t equal fraud, and Plaintiff has not plead fraud with specificity; (3) unjust enrichment is a mere remedy, not a valid cause of action; (4) the FAC doesn’t identify any specific funds on which to impose a constructive trust, and (5) Plaintiff has no valid claim for unfair business practices.  Defendants also move to strike (1) Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations because Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails, and (2) any claim for money damages in connection with Plaintiff’s claim for unfair business practices because under the unfair competition law, a plaintiff is entitled only to restitution and injunctive relief.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  Defendants submit the Declaration of Kenneth Ruttenberg which attests the parties met and conferred by telephone on May 22, 2024, more than five days before the demurrer and motion to strike was filed (on May 28, 2024).  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §§430.41 and 435.5.   Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not complied with the meet and confer requirements.  Plaintiff, however, fails to explain why that is so.  In any event, the Court cannot overrule a demurrer or deny a motion to strike based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§430.41(a)(4) and 435.5(a)(4).) DISCUSSION Breach of Contract Defendants demur to the breach of contract claim on the ground that the contract terms are so vague that no one could judge whether Defendants supposedly breach those terms.  The Court agrees.   The Complaint alleges that in exchange for $75,000, Defendants were to provide “full service planning and implementation of travel itineraries over the course of one year – from July 1, 2021 through June 20, 2022.”  (FAC ¶ 22.)  Defendants promised to provide access to “the most exclusive luxury travel and lifestyle services available in the world” and to “comb the globe consistently, procuring only the best in ultra-luxury living” for Plaintiff for one year.  (Id. ¶ 22.)   These terms are too vague to determine whether a breach has occurred.  It is not clear what “full service” planning entails.  And there is no basis to judge whether the luxury travel Defendants provided were “the most exclusive” or constituted the “best in ultra luxury living.”  These promises are not definite enough to determine the scope of Defendants’ obligations or the limits of their performance.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the breach of contract claim with leave to amend.    Fraud Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s fraud claim as duplicative of the contract claim, as insufficiently plead and as failing to allege an intent not to perform.  The Court agrees on the last ground.   To allege promissory fraud, Plaintiff must plead Defendants made promises that they had no intention of performing.  (Lazar v. Super. Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  The fact that a promise was made and not fulfilled is insufficient to establish fraud by false promise.  (Tenzer v. Superscope (1985) 39 Cal.3d 18, 31.)  Rather, “something more than nonperformance is required to prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his promise.”  (Id.)  “Making a promise with an honest but unreasonable intent to perform is wholly different from making one with no intent to perform and, therefore, does not constitute a false promise.”  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.) Here, Plaintiff has not alleged facts to support a showing that Defendants did not intend to perform on their promises at the time they made them.  In fact, the FAC alleges partial performance by Defendants.  (FAC ¶¶ 16, 18.)  The fact that Defendants partially performed undercuts any claim they did not intend to perform at the time they made their promises.  (Castaic Village Ctr. LLC v. Gymcheer USA, Inc., 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 6377 at *5 (partial performance negates an intent not to perform).)      Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fraud claim withoug leave to amend.   Unjust Enrichment Defendant demurs to the unjust enrichment claim on the ground it is a remedy and not a cause of action.  Plaintiff argues it has not asserted an unjust enrichment claim.  The caption to its complaint, however, characterizes its third cause of action as an “unjust enrichment claim and imposition of constructive trust.”  This may have been a clerical error and a holdover from the prior complaint.  As Plaintiff maintains he is not asserting an unjust enrichment claim, the demurrer to the unjust enrichment claim is moot.       Constructive Trust Defendant demurs to the constructive trust claim on the ground Plaintiff does not allege a specific identifiable property interest because money is fungible.  The Court agrees.   A prerequisite to the imposition of a constructive trust is the identification of a specific property belonging to the claimant.  (Korea Supply Co. V. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1150.)  A constructive trust requires “money or property identified as belonging in good conscience to the plaintiff [which can] clearly be traced to particular funds or property in the defendant’s possession.” (Id.)  A constructive trust is available where the specific res or funds can be identified and attached, “but not where the plaintiff seeks to impose general personal liability as a remedy for the defendant’s monetary obligations.”  (Honolulu Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee of United Ass'n Local Union No. 675 v. Foster (9th Cir. 2003) 332 F.3d 1234, 1238.)  In other words, a constructive trust is not an appropriate remedy for a claim that is essentially one for money damages, as is the case here. Further, constructive trust is not a cause of action per se, but an equitable remedy.  (Batt v. City and County of San Francisco (2007) 155 Cal. App. 4th 65, 82; see also Habitat Trust for Wildlife, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cucamonga (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1306, 1332 (“constructive trust is an equitable remedy”); PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 398 (constructive trust is a remedy); Glue-Fold, Inc. v. Slautterback Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023 (constructive trust is a remedy). Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the constructive trust claim without leave to amend.     Unfair Business Practices Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 (“UCL”) fails because Plaintiff has not alleged the violation of any law.  The Court agrees.   UCL prohibits “unfair competition,” which is defined as any “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”  Here, the FAC alleges that Defendants “violated the UCL prohibition against engaging in an unlawful act or practice by the conduct described above.”  (FAC ¶ 41.)  To state a cause of action based on an unlawful business act or practice under the UCL, a plaintiff must allege facts sufficient to show a violation of some underlying law.  (People v. McKale (1979) 25 Cal.3d 626, 635; Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)  Plaintiff has not identified any underlying law that was violated.   In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ conduct also constituted unfair and fraudulent business practices.  While Plaintiff did not allege this theory in his Complaint, the Court is “not¿limited to plaintiffs’ theory of recovery in testing the sufficiency of their¿complaint against a¿demurrer, but instead must determine if the¿factual¿allegations of the complaint are¿adequate to state a cause of action under any legal theory.” (¿Barquis¿v.¿Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103.)¿ “Mistaken labels and confusion of legal theory are not fatal; if appellant’s complaint states a cause of action on any theory, he is entitled to introduce evidence thereon.”  (Porten¿v.¿University of San Francisco¿(1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 825, 833.)  California courts have not uniformly settled on a single approach to defining 'unfair' business practices in a consumer action under the UCL.  Prior to 1999, California courts applied what is known as the “balancing test.”  Courts “defined ‘unfair’ business practices as those ‘offend[ing] an established public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers,’” or where the utility of the defendant’s conduct does not outweigh the gravity of the harm to the victim.  (Cel-Tech Commc’ns, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Tel. Co. (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 163, 184.)  Under the balancing test, “a determination of unfairness involves an examination of [the practice’s] impact on its alleged victim, balanced against the reasons, justifications and motives of the alleged wrongdoer.”  (McKell v. Washington Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal. App. 4th 1457, 1473¿(internal citations omitted).)  In 1999, the California Supreme Court rejected that test and held that a finding of unfairness must instead “be tethered to some legislatively declared policy or proof of some actual or threatened impact on competition.” ¿(Cel-Tech, 20 Cal. 4th at 186-87.)  The¿Cel-Tech¿court, however, expressly declined to extend this¿standard to consumer actions.¿ (Id.¿at 187 n.12.)  Here, Plaintiff has not alleged a threatened impact on competition and has not alleged facts that would meet the balancing test.  For example, Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants’ conduct was not motivated by legitimate business or economic need or that the harm and adverse impact of Defendants’ conduct outweighed these needs.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has not stated a UCL claim based on either test for unfairness.     To state a claim under the “fraudulent” prong of the¿UCL, a plaintiff must “show that members of the public are likely to be¿deceived.”¿(Bank of the W. v. Superior Ct. (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 1254, 1267.)  “The determination as to whether a business practice is deceptive is based on the likely effect such [a] practice would have on a reasonable¿consumer.” (McKell, 142 Cal.App.4th at 1471.)  Here, Plaintiff has not alleged that members of the public were likely to be deceived by Defendants’ conduct.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has not met the fraudulent prong of the UCL. Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s UCL claim with leave to amend. Punitive Damages Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged fraud and therefore cannot seek punitive damages.  As the Court concludes Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a fraud claim, punitive damages are unavailable.     Money Damages for UCL Claim Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot recover damages for his UCL claim.  The Court agrees. Under the UCL, a plaintiff is entitled only to restitution and injunctive relief; he may not recover damages.  (Korea Supply Co., 29 Cal.4th at 1144.)  Plaintiff seeks money damages for his UCL claim.  (FAC at p.10 lines 16-19.)  Accordingly, the Court will strike the prayer for money damages as to the UCL claim.    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART Defendants’ demurrer with 20 days’ leave to amend and DENIES IN PART and GRANTS IN PART their motion to strike without leave to amend.        IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  July 9, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 