 Case Number:  22STCV20046    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
June 20, 2022, Plaintiff Elenir Sopoulos (“Sopoulos”)
filed this action against Defendants K
& R Trucking Delivery Service Corp, K and R Trucking Delivery Services,
Inc. (“K&R Inc.”), K/R Trucking Delivery SVC, Gilberto Antonio Palomo
(“Palomo”), and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort. 
On
September 12, 2022, Defendants K & R
Trucking Delivery Service aka K & R Trucking Delivery Service Corp. (“K&R
Corp.”) and Palomo filed an answer.   
On
September 14, 2022, K&R Corp. and Palomo filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Goran Stankovic (“Stankovic”) and Roes 1-15 for indemnity,
declaratory relief, and contribution. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 30, 2025. 
B.   These motions 
1.    Settlement between Stankovic and Lucatero 
On
August 29, 2023, Stankovic filed an application for a determination that his settlement with Elizardo Lucatero (“Lucatero”) was in good faith. 
On
September 20, 2023, K&R Corp. and
Palomo (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to contest Stankovic’s application
for a determination that his settlement with Lucatero was in good faith.  The motion was set
for hearing on December 7, 2023.  On November 17, 2023, Stankovic filed an opposition.  On November 30, 2023, Moving Defendants
filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to February
23, 2024. 
On February 23, 2024,
Moving Defendants asked the Court to continue the hearing to allow them to file
an amended motion.  The Court continued
the hearing to April 23, 2024.  (The
Court did not, as Moving Defendants claim, deny their motion.) 
On March 5,
2024, Stankovic filed a new application for good faith settlement determination
stating that the $100,000.00 settlement amount represented the available policy
limits.  On March
27, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a second motion to contest Stankovic’s
application for a determination that the settlement with Lucatero was in good faith.  On April 10, 2024, Stankovic filed an
opposition.  On April 16, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed a reply. 
The
Court continued the hearing to June 5, 2024. 
2.    Settlement between Stankovic and Sopoulos 
On
August 29, 2023, Stankovic filed an application for a determination that his settlement with Sopoulos was in good faith. 
On
September 20, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a motion to contest Stankovic’s
application for a determination that his settlement with Sopoulos was in good faith.  The motion was set for hearing on December 7,
2023. On November 17, 2023, Stankovic
filed an opposition. On November 30,
2023, Moving Defendants filed a reply. The
Court continued the hearing to February 23, 2024. 
On February 23, 2024, Moving Defendants asked the
Court to continue the hearing to allow them to file an amended motion.  The Court continued the hearing to April 23,
2024. (The Court did not, as Moving Defendants claim, deny their motion.) 
On
March 5, 2024, Stankovic filed a new application for good faith settlement
determination.  On March 27, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed a second motion to contest Stankovic’s application for a
determination that his settlement with Sopoulos was in good faith.  On April 10, 2024, Stankovic filed an
opposition.  On April 16, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed a reply. 
The
Court continued the hearing to June 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Stankovic
asks the Court to find that his settlements with Lucatero and Sopoulos are in
good faith. 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to grant their motions contesting Stankovic’s applications for good faith settlement determinations. 
Stankovic
asks the Court to deny Moving Defendants’ motions contesting the applications for good
faith settlement determinations. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6 provides in part: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement. 
“(b) The issue of the good faith of a settlement may
be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its
discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing. 
“(c) A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault. 
“(d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).) 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts must
consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The complaint and cross-complaint 
1.    The complaint 
Sopoulos’s
complaint alleges the following: 
On
July 6, 2020, on the US-101 Northbound Ventura Freeway near Sepulveda Boulevard
in Los Angeles, Defendants K & R Trucking Delivery Service Corp, K and R
Trucking Delivery Services, Inc., K/R Trucking Delivery SVC, Gilberto Antonio
Palomo, and Does 1-100 (1) operated a motor vehicle, (2) employed the persons
who operated a motor vehicle in the course of their employment, (3) owned the
motor vehicle which was operated with their permission, (4) entrusted their
motor vehicle, (5) were the agents and employees of the other defendants and
acted within the scope of the agency. 
“Defendants
acted in a joint venture and/or enterprise, and/or in an employee-employer,
agent-principal, bailment, or some other relationship with each other or
others, and share responsibility for the acts or omissions which caused the
injuries and damages alleged herein.” 
“Defendants
designed, manufactured, constructed, built, assembled, owned, sold,
transferred, distributed, managed, maintained, controlled, used, operated,
entrusted, bailed, supervised, inspected, and/or repaired the vehicles, other
property or products involved in this incident, all or part of the collision
site, adjacent property, improvements and/or fixtures thereon, and/or component
parts thereof, in a negligent, careless, unsafe, reckless, wrongful, unlawful,
defective and/or dangerous manner, which was known or should have been known to
defendants, and which were used in a foreseeable manner involving unreasonable
danger and/or risk of harm not reasonably apparent to the public or Plaintiffs,
and unknown to plaintiffs, without adequate or reasonable warning or notice,
which caused injuries and damages to plaintiffs, and each of them, as alleged
herein.” 
“Some
or each of the doe defendants knew that the defective product that injured
plaintiff would be purchased and/or used without inspection for defects. The
product was defective when it left the control of each such defendant. The
product at the time of injury was being used in the manner intended by such
defendants and/or used in a manner that was reasonably foreseeable by such
defendants as involving a substantial danger not readily apparent. Adequate
warnings of the danger were not given. At all relevant times, Plaintiff was a
purchaser, bystander and/or user of the product. As a result of this defect,
plaintiffs were injured and damaged as alleged herein.” 
“Some
or each of the doe defendants breached an implied warranty and/or express
warranty that was written and/or oral to plaintiff, which breach caused the
injuries and damages to plaintiffs, as alleged herein.” 
“Defendants
owned, provided, entrusted, bailed, used, transferred, leased or rented the
vehicle that collided with plaintiffs' vehicle, and/or that caused or
contributed to causing this incident, and negligently, carelessly, unsafely,
wrongfully, recklessly and/or unlawfully or otherwise entrusted same to other
defendants or others, thereby sharing responsibility for each plaintiff’s
injuries and damages, as alleged herein.” 
“Defendants
negligently, carelessly, unlawfully and/or wrongfully hired, trained, and/or
supervised other defendants, employees, agents and/or persons, thereby causing
and/or contributing to causing this subject incident and resulting injuries and
damages to Plaintiffs.” 
2.    The cross-complaint 
Moving
Defendants’ cross-complaint alleges that (1) Stankovic and Roes 1-15 were
negligent or otherwise liable and proximately caused the injuries and damages
that are the subject of Sopoulos’s complaint and (2) if Moving Defendants are held liable to Sopoulos on the
complaint, then they are entitled to indemnity or contribution from Stankovic
and Roes 1-15. 
B.   Stankovic’s settlement with Lucatero 
1.    Stankovic’s application for a determination that his
settlement with Lucatero was in good faith 
a.    Background 
Stankovic
states that, under the settlement agreement, Lucatero has “agreed and released [Stankovic]
from any and all claims he had against him in exchange for payment, already
tendered, of ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($100,000.00). These were the
available liability policy limits. [Stankovic] also executed a declaration of
no other insurance as a condition precedent to the settlement. Further, [Lucatero]
and [Stankovic] waived all costs, claims and fees against each other.” 
The
traffic collision report stated that Stankovic “was the primary collision
factor in violation of Vehicle Code Section 21658(a), an unsafe lane change.”  (Application p. 5.) 
On
June 15, 2021, Lucatero’s lawyers made a policy limits demand, stating that
Lucatero (1) suffered four hard impacts, (2) fractured three teeth, (3) now
suffers from tinnitus, hearing loss, headaches resulting in a diagnosis of traumatic
brain injury, temporomandibular joint syndrome, spinal strain/sprain, radiculopathy,
and dizziness.  His past medical specials
were $60,000.00.  Further treatment was
recommended. 
On
August 16, 2021, Stankovic’s carrier tendered the $100,000.00 policy limits to
Lucatero, who accepted the tender.  Stankovic
provided a declaration stating that he had no other insurance.  Lucatero did not file a lawsuit against
Stankovic. 
b.    Tech-Bilt factors 
Rough
approximation of total recovery: Stankovic anticipates that, if Lucatero
recovered damages, the verdict is likely to be “in the range of
$100,000-600,000.” 
Settlor’s
proportionate share of recovery: 
Stankovic concedes that “[t]he evidence adduced thus far suggests the
bulk of the liability in this case falls on [Stankovic].”   However, while
Stankovic’s liability is “significant,” Stankovic asserts that his liability is
“likely not exclusive as it appears K&R TRUCKING has some secondary
liability for swerving into Sopoulos and thereafter [Lucatero].” 
Amount
to be paid in settlement: Prior to litigation, Stankovic’s insurance carrier
paid Lucatero $100,000.00. 
Financial
condition and insurance policy limits: Stankovic’s policy limits were
$100,000.00/$300,000.00, meaning that the maximum amount for a single claimant
is $100,000.00. Stankovic’s insurer paid Lucatero this amount.  Stankovic provided a declaration stating that
no other insurance policies applied to the loss. 
Collusion:
Stankovic states that there is no evidence of collusion. 
2.
Moving Defendants’ motion to challenge the good faith of Stankovic’s settlement
with Lucatero 
a.    Plaintiff’s total recovery and settlor’s proportionate
liability 
Moving
Defendants contend that Stankovic’s application for a good faith settlement
determination does not satisfy the Tech-Bilt requirements because it
fails to provide a rough approximation of Lucatero’s total recovery and fails
to establish the parties’ proportionate liability. 
Citing
Lucatero’s injuries, vehicle damage, and the traffic collision report’s
conclusion that Stankovic was at fault, Moving Defendants argue that Lucatero’s
damages “could very well exceed $100,000.00” and a jury might award him more
than $1 million for continued pain and suffering and traumatic brain injury.  According to Moving Defendants, Stankovic “provides
an approximation based on medical specials taken at the time but does not
evaluate any of Mr. Lucatero’s continued pain and suffering and/or emotional
distress damages.” 
Moving
Defendants also argue that Stankovic has not provided evidence showing the
parties’ proportionate liability.  In
particular, Stankovic has presented no evidence showing that Moving Defendants were
liable for Lucatero’s damages. 
Moving
Defendants contend that Stankovic’s $100,000.00 settlement with Lucatero
represents 10% of Stankovic’s potential damages of $1 million, which is not in
the ballpark of Stankovic’s potential liability to Lucatero.  Therefore, the Court should deny the
application for a good faith settlement determination. 
In
response, Stankovic argues that the $100,000.00 insurance policy limit paid to
Lucatero was his only asset.  He has
declared under oath that his total assets were less than $100.00. 
In Tech-Bilt,
the Court observed that “ ‘even where the claimant’s damages are obviously
great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement
figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and
uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’ ”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499, quoting Stambaugh v. Superior
Court (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 231, 238.) 
In  Schmid v. Superior Court
(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244 (Schmid), the Court of Appeal held that “a
settlement of a personal injury lawsuit is in ‘good faith,’ for purposes of
sections 877 and 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, where a defendant pays
the plaintiff the limit of the defendant's insurance policy and has no other
assets, even though the amount paid in settlement is far less than the likely
amount of a judgment against the defendant were the case to go to trial.”  (Schmid, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1245-1246.)  Similarly, in County of Los Angeles v.
Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1157-1158 (Guerrero), the Court
of Appeal observed held that, “as in Schmid, the scale of the potential
damages and Guerrero’s modest “financial [condition] and insurance policy
limits” [citation], are necessarily controlling and effectively override the
other Tech–Bilt factors.”  (Guerrero,
supra, 209 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1157-58.) 
Moving
Defendants contend that Schmid is distinguishable because, in that case,
the plaintiffs estimated that Schmid’s share of
liability for the accident was 10-20 percent, and the share of liability of
non-settling defendant County was 80-90 percent.  
In Schmid,
the driver (Schmidt) missed a sharp left turn, drove off the road, and collided
with a tree, severely injuring her passenger, the plaintiff.  The winding road was unmarked, unlit, and
lacked a shoulder area.  Other accidents
had occurred on the road recently but the county had taken no steps to reduce
the danger. After the accident, Schmid's blood-alcohol level measured
approximately .17.  (Schmid, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at pp.
1246-1247.)  The trial court denied Schmidt’s
motion for a good faith settlement determination. 
The
Court of Appeal granted Schmid’s writ petition, observing: “The trial court . .
. understandably rejected plaintiffs’ facially preposterous allocation of
proportionate fault (10-20 percent to Schmid; 80-90 percent to County). The
trial court apparently believed the disparity between Schmid's fault and the
amount of her contribution precluded good faith approval.”  (Schmid, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d
at p. 1248, emphasis added.)  The Court explained:
“The trial court may have relied on the rule stated in Tech-Bilt that, ‘
“[A] defendant's settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what
a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant's liability to be.” ’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  “However, the court in Tech-Bilt
acknowledged that the quoted rule is subject to an exception. Thus, the court
noted that bad faith is not established merely by a showing that a settling
defendant with limited ability to satisfy a judgment will pay less than his or
her theoretical proportionate share: ‘Such a rule would unduly discourage
settlements. “For the damages are often speculative, and the probability of
legal liability therefor is often uncertain or remote. And even where the
claimant's damages are obviously great, and the liability therefor certain, a
disproportionately low settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a
relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’
[Citation.]” ’  [¶]  The latter rule controls here.”  (Ibid.) 
Accordingly, Schmid is not distinguishable for the reason Moving Defendants assert.  
b.   Allocation
of settlement  
Lucatero
will receive the entire settlement. 
c.   Financial
considerations   
Stankovic’s
insurer paid Lucatero the policy limit.  Stankovic
provided a declaration stating that he had no other insurance. 
Stankovic
has submitted a declaration stating that his total assets were less than
$100.00. 
d.   Collusion
or fraud  
Moving
Defendants argue that Stankovic has not addressed their concerns about
collusion or fraud.  The Court did not
see any discussion of these concerns in Moving Defendants’ second motion to
contest Stankovic’s application for a determination that his settlement with
Lucatero was in good faith. The Court has seen no evidence of fraud or
collusion. 
e.    Weighing
the Tech-Bilt factors 
The
Court has weighed the Tech-Bilt factors and concludes that, because Stankovic
has proffered the policy limits of his only available insurance and has no
other assets, Moving Defendants have failed to carry their burden of showing a
lack of good faith.  (See L. Edmon &
C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
12:771, p. 12(ll)-76 [“even a settlement that seems disproportionately low may
be justified by showing . . . that the settling defendant . . . was
underinsured or insolvent”]; id., ¶ 12:797, p. 12(ll)-89 [“Whatever
amounts are paid on behalf of an insolvent defendant are likely a ‘good faith’
settlement, regardless of that defendant’s share of fault”].) 
f.        Moving Defendants’ request for a
continuance 
          Moving Defendants ask the Court to grant a continuance because, “[w]hile some discovery has been
completed at this sta[g]e, more time is needed to gather evidence to determine
whether the settlement satisfies the Tech-Bilt factors set forth above.”  (Motion p. 8.) 
          In Guerrero, the Court of Appeal held the trial
court did not abuse its discretion in denying the County’s request to continue
the hearing on a motion for good faith settlement determination where “the
hearing on the good faith settlement, which originally was scheduled for
September 4, 1987, was continued three times, and finally proceeded on December
4, 1987. Further, over nine months elapsed between the time the County was
served and the date of the good faith hearing.” 
(Guerrero, supra, 209 Cal.App.3d at p. 1159.) “The County
concedes the sole discovery it conducted prior to the hearing was Guerrero's
deposition. It contends, however, it did not have the opportunity to conduct a
follow-up investigation after the November 12, 1987 deposition. However, there
was a span of 22 days between the deposition and the good faith hearing. In
sum, the County's lack of diligence with respect to discovery did not warrant
another continuance of the good faith hearing.” 
(Ibid.) 
          Here, Stankovic filed his initial application for a good
faith settlement determination on August 29, 2023.  Moving Defendants’ initial motion challenging
the application for a good faith settlement determination was set for hearing
on December 7, 2023.  The Court continued
the hearing to February 23, 2024.  On
February 23, 2024, Moving Defendants asked the Court to continue the hearing to
allow them to file an amended motion. 
The Court continued the hearing to April 23, 2024.  The parties subsequently filed new papers
with new hearing dates, which the Court continued to June 5, 2024.  The Court declines to grant another
continuance. 
                    g.       Rulings
on Stankovic’s settlement with Lucatero 
          The Court grants Stankovic’s application for a
determination that his settlement with Lucatero was made in good faith.  The Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion to
challenge the application for a good faith settlement determination. 
C.       Stankovic’s settlement with Sopoulos 
1.       Stankovic’s
application for a determination that his settlement with Sopoulos was in good
faith 
a.       Background 
Stankovic
states that, under the settlement agreement, Sopoulos has “agreed and released [Stankovic]
from any and all claims she had against him in exchange for payment, which was
already made in the amount of ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($100,000.00). This
payment constituted the available liability policy limits. [Stankovic] also
executed a ‘declaration of no other insurance’ and a ‘declaration of assets’ as
condition precedents to the settlement. Further, [Sopoulos] and [Stankovic]
waived all costs, claims, and fees against each other.” 
The
traffic collision report stated that Stankovic “was the primary collision
factor in violation of Vehicle Code Section 21658(a), an unsafe lane
change.”  (Application p. 4.) 
After
the accident, Sopoulos was taken by ambulance to the hospital where she was placed in intensive care.  On
March 19, 2021, Sopoulos’s counsel made a pre-litigation policy limits demand.
 On April
2, 2021, Stankovic’s carrier tendered the $100,000.00 policy limits to Sopoulos,
who accepted the tender. Stankovic provided a declaration of no other insurance
and a second declaration of no other assets. 
b.       Tech-Bilt factors 
Rough
approximation of total recovery: Stankovic asserts that Sopoulos allegedly suffered
a broken arm, was hospitalized in the intensive care unit, and was in the hospital
for three days. Medical specials were some $60,000.00. According to Stankovic, the
rough approximation of Sopoulos’s recovery is between $100,000.00 and
$350,000.00. 
Settlor’s
proportionate share of liability: Stankovic concedes that “[t]he evidence
adduced thus far suggests the bulk of the liability in this case falls on [Stankovic].”  However, while Stankovic’s liability is
“significant,” Stankovic asserts that his liability is “likely not exclusive as
it appears K&R TRUCKING has some secondary liability for swerving into [Sopoulos]
and [Lucatero].” 
Amount
to be paid in settlement:  Prior to
litigation, Stankovic’s insurance carrier paid Sopoulos $100,000.00. 
Financial
condition and insurance policy limits: Stankovic’s policy limits were
$100,000.00/$300,000.00, meaning that the maximum amount for a single claimant
is $100,000.00. Stankovic’s insurer paid Sopoulos this amount.  Stankovic provided a declaration stating that
no other insurance policies applied to the loss. 
Collusion:
Stankovic states that there is no evidence of collusion. 
2. Moving Defendants’ motion to challenge the good
faith of Stankovic’s settlement with Sopoulos 
a.       Plaintiff’s
total recovery and settlor’s proportionate liability 
Moving
Defendants contend that Stankovic’s application for a good faith settlement
determination does not satisfy the Tech-Bilt requirements because it
fails to provide a rough approximation of Sopoulos’s total recovery and fails
to establish the parties’ proportionate liability. 
Although
Stankovic asserts that Sopoulos had “some $60,000.00” in medical specials,
Moving Defendants contend that Sopoulos “has alleged $202,473.21 in hospital
and medical expenses and reported losing past and future earnings because of
her injuries.” 
Citing
Sopoulos’s injuries and the traffic collision report’s conclusion that
Stankovic was at fault, Moving Defendants argue that Sopoulos’s damages could well exceed $100,000.00 and a jury might award her more than $1 million
for special damages and continued pain and suffering. 
Moving
Defendants assert that Sopoulos “made a Policy Limit Demand on March 19, 2021,
seeking $1 million dollars from Defendants’ insurance company.” 
  According to Moving Defendants, Stankovic has
not provided evidence showing the parties’ proportionate liability.  In particular, Stankovic has presented no
evidence showing that Moving Defendants were liable for Sopoulos’s damages. 
Moving
Defendants contend that Stankovic’s $100,000.00 settlement with Sopoulos
represents 10% of Stankovic’s potential damages of $1 million, which is not in
the ballpark of Stankovic’s potential liability to Sopoulos.  Therefore, the Court should deny the
application for a good faith settlement determination. 
In
response, Stankovic argues that the $100,000.00 insurance policy limit paid to Sopoulos
was his only asset.  He has declared
under oath that his total assets were less than $100.00. 
In Tech-Bilt,
the Court observed that “ ‘even where the claimant’s damages are obviously
great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement
figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and
uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’ ”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
p. 499, quoting Stambaugh v. Superior Court (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 231,
238.)  In 
Schmid v. Superior Court (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1244 (Schmid),
the Court of Appeal held that “a settlement of a personal injury lawsuit is in ‘good
faith,’ for purposes of sections 877 and 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
where a defendant pays the plaintiff the limit of the defendant's insurance
policy and has no other assets, even though the amount paid in settlement is
far less than the likely amount of a judgment against the defendant were the
case to go to trial.”  (Schmid, supra,
205 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1245-1246.) 
Similarly, in County of Los Angeles v. Guerrero (1989) 209
Cal.App.3d 1149, 1157-1158 (Guerrero), the Court of Appeal observed held
that, “as in Schmid, the scale of the potential damages and Guerrero’s
modest “financial [condition] and insurance policy limits” [citation], are
necessarily controlling and effectively override the other Tech–Bilt
factors.”  (Guerrero, supra,
209 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1157-58.)  (See Discussion,
Section B.2.a above for additional discussion of Schmid.) 
b.   Allocation
of settlement  
Sopoulos
will receive the entire settlement. 
c.   Financial
considerations   
Stankovic’s
insurer paid Sopoulos the $100,000.00 policy limit.  Stankovic provided a declaration stating that
he had no other insurance. 
Stankovic
has submitted a declaration stating that his total assets were less than
$100.00. 
d.   Collusion
or fraud  
Under
the heading, “There is Evidence of Potential Collusion and/or Fraud,” Moving
Defendants ask the Court to continue the hearing on their motion so they can
conduct “more discovery . . . to assess the existence of collusion and/or fraud.”
(Motion p. 8.)  Moving Defendants refer
to the timing of policy limit demands, a purported delay in informing them of
the settlement, and markings on a release to support their request. 
For
the reasons explained above in Section
B.2.f, Moving Defendants have had ample time to conduct discovery.  The Court denies the request for a continuance. 
e.    Weighing
the Tech-Bilt factors 
The
Court has weighed the Tech-Bilt factors and concludes that, because
Stankovic has proffered the policy limits of his only available insurance and
has no other assets, Moving Defendants have failed to carry their burden of
showing a lack of good faith.  (See L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(Rutter 2023) ¶ 12:771, p. 12(ll)-76 [“even a settlement that seems
disproportionately low may be justified by showing . . . that the settling
defendant . . . was underinsured or insolvent”]; id., ¶ 12:797, p. 12(ll)-89
[“Whatever amounts are paid on behalf of an insolvent defendant are likely a
‘good faith’ settlement, regardless of that defendant’s share of fault”].) 
                    f.        Rulings
on Stankovic’s settlement with Sopoulos 
          The Court grants Stankovic’s application for a
determination that his settlement with Sopoulos was in good faith.  The Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion to
challenge the application for a good faith settlement determination. 
CONCLUSION  
The
Court GRANTS the application of Cross-Defendant Goran Stankovic for a
determination that his settlement with Elizardo Lucatero is in good faith. 
The
Court GRANTS the application of Cross-Defendant Goran Stankovic for a
determination that his settlement with Plaintiff
Elenir Sopoulos is in good faith. 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants K & R Trucking Delivery Service aka K
& R Trucking Delivery Service Corp. and Gilberto Antonio Palomo to contest Cross-Defendant
Goran Stankovic’s application for a determination that his settlement with
Elizardo Lucatero is in good faith. 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants K & R Trucking Delivery Service aka K
& R Trucking Delivery Service Corp. and Gilberto Antonio Palomo to contest
Cross-Defendant Goran Stankovic’s application for a determination that his
settlement with Plaintiff Elenir Sopoulos
is in good faith. 
The
Court dismisses all pending and future claims against Cross-Defendant Goran
Stankovic by the parties served with these motions (to the extent those claims
arise from the facts giving rise to this case), including cross-complaints for
equitable indemnity. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.