 Case Number:  22STCP02558    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  I The court has some questions that it would like to discuss
during oral argument.  First, the court
briefly (somewhat) discusses its understanding of some of the salient facts.
As the court understands it, the petition challenges an
order from the California Coastal Commission (“CCC”) levying a fine against
petitioners in the amount of $6 million for violations of the Coastal Act.  In its petition, petitioner raises a series
of arguments.  Its principal argument is
that the entities named in the orders are not plaintiff and plaintiff is not
responsible for the prior owner’s alleged misdeeds, such as failing to transfer
the property.  The CCC argues that
petitioner did not exhaust that argument, and that the record disproves
petitioners’ contentions.
The court understands the following to be some of the facts
but the court invites the parties to correct any error.  The original applicant and permittee was
Headland Properties Inc. (“HPI”).  That
was the applicant in 1979 and through most of the 1980’s.  In 1989, Headland Properties LP (“HPLP”) took
over, but the people involved in HPLP were the same as for HPI and its address
was the same as well.  In 2010, Headland
Properties LLC (“HPLLC”) took over from HPLP. 
Again, the officers and ownership were identical or similar.  The court understands that Miller and Met
Life were owners and officers.  They used
“Headlands Properties Associates” or “Headland Properties” in correspondence.
In 1981, HPI attempted to gift the property to the City and
the City voted to accept it.  In 1995,
HPLP executed a grant deed that transferred the property to the City, which the
City accepted.  However, the County
Recorder rejected the deed for recording because the notary stamp was
smudged.  Because it was not recorded,
the Assessor’s office viewed the property as still being owned by HPLP.  The Assessor’s office continued to send tax
bills to HPLP.  HPLP did nothing to
correct the problem or get a better notary stamp nor did the City.  At come point, the County defaulted HPLP due
to the unpaid taxes.  (Of course, had the
property been recorded in the City’s name, there would be no property
taxes.)  It appears that the property was
transferred to a  private company
pursuant to a tax sale in 2010, but the transfer did not go through due to the
complications involving the property. 
Thus, as of 2010, HPLP remained the owner of the property—at least from
the County’s perspective.  HPLP later
recorded a quitclaim deed to HPLLC. 
Although the 2006 tax sale did not go through, neither HPLP nor HPLLC
paid any taxes even though tax bills were still being sent.  That led to another auction in
2012-2013.  At that auction, Levy bought
the property for $350,000.  CCC asserts
it did not learn of the sale right away. 
HPLLC made a claim for the excess money (because the sale price far
exceeded the amount of taxes owed) and was successful, recovering about
$329,000.  It never gave that money to
the City or (so far as the court is aware) to HPLP.  In 2016, CCC claims it became aware of the
problem.  On March 30, 2018 it sent a
notice of an intent to start a hearing. 
There was a form to allow respondents to tell their side of the story,
but it was not completed.  The hearing
was originally set for 2020 but it was delayed due to the pandemic until May
11, 2021.  Prior to the hearing, the
CCC’s staff issued a 74 page report with exhibits.  Miller appeared at the hearing and contended
that the problems the CCC alleged were not his fault or that of any of the
cited entities.  (The problems included
not maintaining the trailhead among other things).  Miller stated that he knew nothing about what
occurred before 1999, when he took over from Met with regard to managing the
property.  He was aware of the default in
2000 and 2001, but did not know why the City had not recorded the deed.  He asserts that he was unaware of the 2013
default.  He states that he was not the
developer and did not profit.
Ultimately, the CCC concluded that petitioner and all of the
various Headlands entities did not maintain the parking lot and restroom,
failed to transfer the property properly, transferred it improperly from HPLP
to HPLLC, failed to pay property tax (which led to the tax sale), and profited
from the property.  The CCC imposed a $6
million fine, although the maximum fine would have been closer to $20
million.  Petitioners filed a petition
for administrative mandate on July 10, 2022, which is the matter now before the
court.  CCC has moved for judgment on the
pleadings, which include the administrative record.
On an administrative writ petition, the court sits almost
like an appellate court.  The question
before this court is not what this court would have done had it been the
administrative tribunal; the question is whether there is substantial evidence
for the findings that in fact were made. 
If so, the court does not exercise independent judgment over the amount
of the fine levied, but rather reviews the fine only to determine if it is
appropriate.  Further, the court’s review
is not plenary.  The court can only
review issues that were properly presented to the administrative tribunal.  The court cannot decide matters or issues
that were not raised at that time. 
Petitioners contend that the CCC did not understand the
ownership and wrongly concluded that the various Headland entities (and thus
also Cal Coast Companies) were related and essentially one and the same.  According to petitioners, the CCC should have
found that the 2010 quitclaim deed was invalid because HPLP had no actual
interest in this parcel.  Petitioners
further assert that the sale to Levy was not their fault, and that petitioners
got no benefits without the appropriate burdens and that the CCC was in error
as to the claim that access to the trailhead was blocked.  The CCC argues that only the deed issue was
properly raised below and because the other arguments were not raised below
petitioners failed to exhaust their administrative remedies and those issues
are not before the court.  In particular,
the CCC contends that the ownership question was not raised below.  The CCC also argues that even if the various
Headlands entities are different, they are either successors-in-interest or
alter egos of one another.  The CCC notes
that Miller is an officer common to the entities and he is the person who
actually applied for permits.  He is
everywhere and he owns Cal Coast Companies. 
Petitioners contend that they raised all of the issues below
property.  They assert that the property
was properly conveyed in 2000 and that the City has maintained the property
since then.  Petitioners also state that
there is no common ownership between the prior Headland entities and
HPLLC.  As to the 2010 deed, they assert it
was a “wild deed” and of no legal import. 
They assert that there were in fact no problems until Levy bought the
property at the tax sale.  Petitioners
contend that although the CCC claims tax bills were sent, there is no actual
evidence of that.  And when HPLLC learned
that there was excess money from the tax sale, it asked for it, but the fact
that it asked for it and got it is without significance.  In reply, the CCC argues that petitioners’
attempt to go outside the record is not proper. 
In an administrative mandate case, the court is limited to the
administrative record.  The CCC notes
that when Miller appeared at the hearing, he said he appeared on behalf of
HPLLC and that “we” took over from Met Life in 1999 or 2000, which, the CCC
maintains, is a binding admission that the entities were all one and the same
since at least 1999 and that he held himself out as Headlands at all
times.  And the CCC notes that it makes
no sense for petitioners to maintain that they never got a single tax bill, but
the one letter that they did get was the one saying that there was some money
to be claimed—at which point they promptly took the money event though they now
claim that they had no entitlement to it.
So, the court has some questions.  First, There was an apparent attempt
to transfer the property to the City in 1995. 
It was gifted and the City accepted the gift.  Whose legal responsibility is it to record
the deed—the grantor or the grantee?  One
would assume the grantee, but if it is the grantor, that could matter.  And did the grantee (or anyone else) have a
legal duty to tell the grantor that the recordation was not successful?  If so, did anyone do that in a way reflected
in the record?  Second, there was
a 2010 quitclaim transfer from HPLP to HPLLC. 
What is HPLP;s explanation for its purported transfer of the property if
it was under the impression that it did not own the property?  Third, a quitclaim is an odd way of
transferring property in an arms’ length transaction.  It is not illegal, but does that not alone
suggest that there was more than a passing relationship between HPLP and HPLLC?  Fourth, did the City actually maintain
the property after 1995 (or so) or did a Headland’s entity maintain it as a
practical matter.  Fifth, what do
the parties contend is the legal effect of the 2010 transfer?  Is it like transferring the Brooklyn
Bridge?  I can give you a quitclaim to
it, but it has no effect because I don’t own it; it simply transfers whatever
rights I have (which would be none for the Brooklyn Bridge) to you.  Would the same be true here such that the
2010 transfer did no more than transfer non-existent rights?  Sixth, let’s talk a bit about the
formal ownership structure of HPI, HPLP, HPLLC, and Cal Coastal.  Who are the formal owners?  What role did Miller have in each of the
entities.  Seventh, with regard to
the 2006 tax sale that did not go through, what documentation is there about
who was told what with regard to the reasons? 
And shouldn’t that have put HPLP on notice of this whole issue?  Eighth, what notices, if any, did the
County or trustee give with regard to the 2013 sale?  To whom were they given?  Ninth, what is petitioners’ best
argument as to why it sought to claim the excess proceeds from the sale if
their view is that they did not (and never did) own the parcel?  And tenth, how did the $6 million
figure get chosen and what is the precise justification for the agency’s
decision to double the amount recommended by staff?  Tenth, what is the actual, precise,
basis for the fine?  Is it the failure to
transfer the property?  Is it the failure
to maintain the trailhead, restrooms, or parking?  Is it the failure to cooperate with the CCC
when the problem was raised?  And what is
the precise record citation for the specific violations and their duration?
Overall, the court will likely hear argument and schedule a
second day of argument after this one—perhaps after further briefing.  In the meantime, the parties are STRONGLY
encouraged to settle the case.  The court
is pleased that much of the case has resolved. 
It could well be that this can, too. 
To be sure, the ball has moved, and the court’s ability to second guess
the administrative record is limited. 
Petitioners should be aware of the court’s limited power.  The court also has some doubts that the tax
bills kept getting lost for years.  
There appears to be no evidence in the record as to whether the Assessor
got any returned mail for the tax bills, but the County is pretty good about
sending tax notices out.  And they are
better at giving notices of tax sales. 
And apparently they were very good at the notice of excess funds
because, uniquely, that one got received. 
Related to the former question, what is petitioners’ best explanation as
to how it did get the notice of claim. 
It is more likely than not (even if only from a statistical standpoint)
that money will have to change hands, and that the amount will be
significant.  That said, it could be that
the CCC is willing to take some kind of haircut in return for prompt payment
and the avoidance of risk.  The court
would assume that any settlement would also settle the CCC’s purported
cross-complaint.