 Case Number:  21STCV43675    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  T Minor's Compromise “A parent having the right to compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or other property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided in subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity, the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob. Code, § 3500(d).) “The court shall schedule a hearing on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section 3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.” (Prob. Code, § 3505.) “The court making the order or giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator, costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, § 3601(a).)DISCUSSION Claimant Tray’Vion Williams (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Sheila Shellmire (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle his claims against Defendant Ubaldo Saucedo/Progressive Insurance in exchange for $150,000.00. If approved, $37,500.00 will be used for attorney’s fees, $1,418.95 for costs, and $17,078.55 for medical expenses, leaving a balance of $94,002.50 for Claimant to be deposited in insured accounts in one or more financial institutions in this state, subject to withdrawal only on authorization of the court.  The court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that is fair and reasonable. Further, the requested attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is fair and reasonable. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim of a Minor (Tray’Vion Williams, Age: 10).  Per California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance. The Court finds that Claimant’s appearance is not necessary, but will require Petitioner to appear. 