  Case Number:  21STCV01502    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Leave to Amend “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1).) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1)  Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2)  State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3)  State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1324(a).) In Hauser v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1933) 133 Cal.App. 222, the court held “[a]lthough permission to amend pleadings is a matter within the sound discretion of the trial court, courts should be liberal in the allowance of amendments….” (Hauser v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1933) 133 Cal.App. 222, 228.)DISCUSSION Plaintiff seeks leave of Court to file a First Amended Complaint in this instant case to add a Second Cause of Action for Negligence against Maquire Properties – 350 S. Figueroa LLC and Doe Defendants 4-50. Plaintiff contends that at the time the Complaint was filed, she was unaware of the facts that gave rise to the Second Cause of Action for Negligence.  Here, Plaintiff has shown that amendment to the present Complaint is warranted. First, the remaining defendants will not be prejudiced because they have been participating in written discovery in this action.  Furthermore, Plaintiff has demonstrated the proposed allegations and changes are premised on the same underlying accident, claims, and facts already raised in the present Complaint. Moreover, the need for amendment did not arise until after reviewing the pleadings, engaging in discovery, and dismissing certain defendants. Also, Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer with opposing counsel to resolve the issue of amendment informally and was unsuccessful. Likewise, Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is in compliance with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) because Plaintiff has included a redlined version of the proposed First Amended Complaint that identifies the additional cause of action and allegations to be added; and states the page, paragraph, and line numbers to added. Finally, Defendants have not opposed the instant motion, thus fail to refute or rebut that good cause exists for the amendment.   Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff Sevana Khajadourian Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff is ordered to file the First Amended Complaint within 20 days of this order.  