 Case Number:  22STCV25607    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV25607




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Bonnie Furgurson, James Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  Thomas Robert Brown and Erin Michelle Brown



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Bonnie Furgurson, James Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson (“Defendant”)
move to continue trial in order for their summary judgment motion, currently
set for December 10, 2024, to be heard before trial. Plaintiffs Thomas Robert
Brown and Erin Michelle Brown oppose, and Defendants reply. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on August 9, 2022. 
 
The answer was filed on September 15, 2022. Trial was originally set for February 6, 2024. 
 
On October 13, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued
trial and all related dates to June 5, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action
or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any
earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ Notice of the motion and supporting papers must be served on all
other parties at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id.,
subd. (a)(2).)¿ The motion must be heard no later than 30 days before the date
of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)¿¿Therefore, a motion for
summary judgment must be made at least 105 days before trial. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(a)(2), (3).) A party that
timely files a motion for summary judgment under Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c has a right to have their motion heard before the start of trial.
(Cole v. Superior Court¿(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
 ¿ 
Discussion
 
Defendants request that the Court continue trial in this case to January
13, 2025 based on a December 10, 2024 hearing for Defendants’ summary judgment
motion. 
 
Defendants
filed and served their motion for summary judgment on March 1, 2024, which was
96 days before trial. 
 
In
support, Defendants also argue that the parties must conduct 30 witness
depositions that will not be completed by the June 5, 2024 trial. (Motion, 6.)
Defendants’ counsel also argues she has two trials scheduled for May 31, 2024
and June 3, 2024, that will likely go forward and cause a scheduling conflict.
(Fersch Decl. ¶ 16.) 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that though Defendants reserved their summary judgment motion in
September 2023, they did not take diligent steps to advance the hearing until
March 2024. They also contend that Defendants have not provided proper support
for their assertion that 30 depositions are required, and further argue it is
not guaranteed that Defendants’ counsel’s trials will go forward. 
 
In
reply, Defendants set forth a deposition schedule for 21 witnesses taking place
from April 11, 2024 to May 1, 2024. (Reply, 5.) Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs articulated no prejudice if the trial is continued and note this
case has only been pending for 1 year and 8 months. 
 
In
addition, on April 9, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for judgment
on the pleadings, but permitted Plaintiff leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court grants Defendants’ motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 2, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to January 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery and related deadlines are associated with the new trial
date.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 