 Case Number:  21STCV29428    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29428




MOTIONS:  


Ex
  Parte Application Seeking Relief from Jury Waiver




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Mikhael Dean by and through
  Guardian Ad Litem




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Moda Apartments, Moda at Monrovia Station, and Legacy Partners, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 10, 2021, Plaintiff Mikhael Dean, by and through his
guardian ad litem Eddie Guerrero (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint alleging
injuries due to a dog bite on the premises owned by Defendants Moda Apartments,
Moda at Monrovia Station, and Legacy Partners, LLC (“Defendants”). Defendants
filed an answer on April 7, 2022.
 
Plaintiff applies on an ex parte basis for relief from the jury waiver.
Defendants oppose.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party can secure their right to a jury trial by timely
demanding a jury trial and posting jury fees. (See Code. Civ. Proc. § 631 (b),
(f)(4).) Code of Civil Procedure section 631 provides that “[a]t least one
party demanding a jury on each side of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable
fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150), unless the fee has been paid by
another party on the same side of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 631(b).) The
fee must be paid before the date scheduled for the initial case management
conference in the action. (Id., section 631(c).) If no case management
conference is scheduled in a civil action, the fee shall be due no later than
365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint. (Id.,
section 631(c)(2).) A party waives jury trial by failing to timely pay the fee,
unless another party on the same side of the case has paid that fee, or by
failing to announce that a jury is required, among other things.  (Id.,
section 631(f)(4) and (5).)  
 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a
trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id.,
section 631(g).)  “A trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law
when relief has been denied where there has been no prejudice¿to the other
party or to the court from an inadvertent waiver.”¿ (Tesoro del Valle Master
Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin¿(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638.) Policy favors
the court exercising its discretion to proceed with a jury trial.¿ (Bishop
v. Anderson¿(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 821, 823.)¿  
 
“Where the right to jury is threatened, the crucial focus
is whether any prejudice will be suffered by any party or the court if¿a motion
for relief from waiver is granted…relief has been denied where there has been
no prejudice to the other party or to the court from an inadvertent
waiver.’”  (Wharton v. Superior Court¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 100,
104.)¿¿“The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not prejudice per se.”¿¿(Johnson-Stovall
v. Superior Court¿(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th¿808, 811 [prejudice not shown by
need to prepare motions¿in limine, enlarged exhibits, and jury instructions unless
inadequate time also shown].)¿¿Rather, the prejudice that must be shown is
“prejudice from the granting of relief from waiver not prejudice from the jury
trial.”¿¿(Winston v. Superior Court¿(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 600, 602, 603
[fact that it takes longer to try a jury case is not prejudice from granting
relief from waiver].) “In exercising its discretion, the trial court may
consider delay in rescheduling jury trial, lack of funds, timeliness of the
request and prejudice to the litigants.” (Gann v. Williams Bros. Realty, Inc.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1698, 1704.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the Court, on its own, takes judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s complaint as a court record under Evidence Code section 452(d).
Here, Plaintiffs filed the complaint on August 10, 2021 and did not demand a
jury trial within. Plaintiff did not pay a jury fee of $150 within 365 days of
filing the complaint. As a result, their right to a jury trial was waived. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 631 (f)(5).) Plaintiff filed a notice of posting of jury fees on
April 3, 2024, less than  25 calendar
days before the current trial date. Plaintiff then failed to appear at the
Final Status Conference on April 4, 2024, and did not file the required Final
Status Conference documents five days in advance as required by the Eighth
Amended Standing Order for PI Hub Procedures.
 
Counsel for Plaintiff declares that counsel associated into the case
on April 11, 2023, and did not immediately discover that jury fees were not
paid. (Wallace Decl. ¶ 2-4.) Counsel declares that on March 8, 2024, Plaintiff
sent proposed trial documents to counsel for Defendants, which included jury
related documents. (Id. ¶ 7.) Counsel further declares that even though
counsel discovered the error on April 3, 2024, counsel did not immediately seek
relief because the parties had a private mediation scheduled for April 5, 2024.
(Id. ¶ 12.) On April 9, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application seeking
relief from waiver. Plaintiff further argues that some of Defendants’ motions
in limine suggest a contemplated jury trial. (Ex Parte App. at p. 6.)
 
Defendants argue that they have designed their trial strategy based
upon the presumption of a court trial for the last two years. (Aslam Decl. ¶ 7,
14.) Defendant argues that they have completed most of the discovery in this
case “and have positioned this case for a bench trial.” (Opposition at p. 5.)
“If Defendant anticipated a jury trial, time would have been taken to do a mock
jury for this case, retain a jury consultant and evaluated other important
issues that come with preparing for a jury trial.” (Id.) “Defendants
have prepared this case for a bench trial and will be unduly prejudiced if they
are required to change course and develop a new discovery plan and strategy due
to the late imposition of a jury trial more than three years after the initial
setting of a bench trial.” (Id. at p. 6.)
 
The Court finds that Defendants will suffer prejudice if relief from
waiver is granted. Here, no jury demand appears in the complaint. No filing
gave Defendants notice of a jury demand. Although Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff provided jury related documents on March 8, 2024, this date was
shortly before the trial date. Moreover, jury fees were not posted until 14
days before trial. Even after that, Plaintiff waited another 6 days to file an
ex parte application. In light of Defendants’ arguments about their case and
trial preparation, the Court finds that granting relief will likely result in a
trial continuance. Plaintiff’s request is untimely.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Application Seeking Relief from Jury
Waiver is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 