 Case Number:  22STCV04537    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04537




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Palisades Village Center
  Associates, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts
3.      Request for Judicial Notice 
4.      Evidence in Support of Motion
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      None
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 4, 2022, Plaintiff
Adelmo Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants F&M
Building Construction, Inc., Palisades Village Center Ass., LLC, and Does 1 to
50 for negligence and negligence per se. Plaintiff alleges he was hired by
Defendants to perform construction services on Palisades Village Center Ass.,
LLC’s property. (Complaint ¶ 8–9.) According to the complaint, on April 16,
2020, Plaintiff was injured while doing work on the property after a large
piece of metal fell on his head. (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
Defendant Palisades Village Center Associates, LLC (“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment
against Plaintiff arguing that liability is barred under Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 and
that no exceptions apply. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint, but declines
to take judicial notice of exhibits E, F, and H, instead considering the
exhibits with Defendant’s other evidence.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) “The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in
Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements
are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation
of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to
person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the
nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent;
and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property
was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or
regulation was adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence
per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an evidentiary
presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action for
negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th
549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)   
 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.)
 
Privette Doctrine
 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is
not liable to the contractor's employees for workplace injuries.  The
independent contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by
workers' compensation, as is the liability of the party who hired the
contractor.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693,
700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.) 
 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s workplace injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.  As such, even if there is
evidence that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries,
recovery is not available.  (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
693, 700-02.) 
 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or
death of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court
held that “an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to
recover damages from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the
cost of [workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor
presumably has calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]”
[Citation.]  
 
The Privette
holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally has “ ‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of doing the work
contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer “has no
obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor should
take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation, there
can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]  
 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)  Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of
decisions establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer
‘delegates to that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for
the contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at 642.)  
 
Privette
is based on the presumption that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally delegates to the contractor responsibility for supervising the job,
including responsibility for looking after employee safety. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252, 265.) In line with this presumption,
only the hirer of an independent contractor falls within the Privette
doctrine. (See id. [holding that landowner did not hire plaintiff for
purposes of the Privette doctrine where landowner’s tenant hired the
plaintiff independent contractor to perform work on the premises].) The person
asserting non-liability under Privette must “delegate a responsibility
for ensuring the worksite's safety, either directly or ‘through the chain of
delegation.’” (Id. [quoting Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010)
49 Cal.4th 518, 528–29.)  This delegation
is “is project-specific, meaning it involves a duty limited not only to the
contracted-for work but also to the place where that work occurs.” (Id. at
268.)
 
Exceptions to the Privette Doctrine
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) 
Analysis
 
Here, Defendant argues it is not
liable under Privette since it hired Ayala Development as general
contractor for the renovation project (delegating all duties to Ayala), which
then hired F&M Building Construction, Inc., who employed Plaintiff. Defendant
offers the following facts:
 
-         
On or about January 20, 2020, PVCA hired Ayala
Development to perform the common area façade renovation project on the
condominium building. (UMF 2.) 
-         
Ayala Development is a licensed general contractor with
California State License Number # 1006608. (UMF 3.) 
-         
Ayala Development retained FMBC (hereinafter referred
to as “FMBC”) to perform general labor work during the common area façade
renovation project. (UMF 4.) 
-         
FMBC is a licensed contractor, California License
Number # 1054534. (UMF 5.) 
-         
FMBC was retained as an independent contractor, who was
aware of and acknowledged the condition of the condominium building when FMBC
was retained to perform general labor work for the Project. (UMF 6.) 
-         
Plaintiff was a day laborer hired by Victor Martinez of
F&M Building Construction Inc., to mix concrete for a construction project
at 881 Alma Real Drive, Pacific Palisades, CA. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Plaintiff brought his own tools, and set up a
workplace. (UMF 9.) 
-         
Plaintiff believes an employee from F&M Building
Construction, Inc. was responsible for the object striking him. (UMF 12.) 
-         
FMBC maintains workers compensation insurance through
the State Compensation Insurance Fund, Policy No. 9274568, effective April 15,
2020 – April 15, 2024. (UMF 14.)
-         
Plaintiff is receiving benefits through FMBC’s
compensation insurance policy as a result of an incident that occurred on April
15, 2020. (UMF 15.)
-         
Pursuant to the Vendor Contract between Ayala
Development, Inc. (Vendor) and Palisades Village Center, LLC (Owner c/o
Sandstone Properties, Inc. – Agent) Ayala Development agreed to manage and
oversea the common area façade renovation project (hereinafter referred to as
“Project.”). (UMF 16.) 
-         
PVCA played no role in the management and overseeing of
the Project. (UMF 17.) 
-         
PVCA had no involvement in the means or methods of the
work FMBC was hired to perform. (UMF 22.) 
-         
PVCA did not supervise, instruct, oversee, or control
FMBC employees' work nor did PVCA determine or instruct FMBC employees about
the manner they should work in performing their job. (UMF 24.) 
 
Here, Defendant has met its initial
burden of establishing that the Privette doctrine applies and that no
recognized exceptions are applicable. Defendant sets forth evidence that Defendant
contracted with Ayala Development (“Ayala”) to manage and oversee the subject
project, and that Ayala later retained F&M Building Construction, Inc.
(“F&M”) for work. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 6–7.) In discovery responses, Plaintiff
stated that he was hired by Victor Martinez of F&M to perform work on the
site. (Hall Decl., Exh. A Form Interr. 2.11; Exh. B, Special Interr. 1.) Therefore,
Defendant has set forth sufficient evidence that it contracted with Ayala, an
independent contractor, delegating its duties surrounding this site, and
precluding liability under Privette. Additionally, the evidence set
forth does not show that Defendant retained control over Plaintiff’s work, or
that Plaintiff’s injury was caused by a concealed hazard since Plaintiff
responded in discovery that an employee of F&M was responsible for the
falling metal plate. (Exh. B, Special Interr. 2.) Therefore, the burden shifts
to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of fact.
 
Since Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition, he fails to meet his burden. Therefore, the motion for summary
judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Palisades Village Center
Associates, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file
and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days.
            
Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.