  Case Number:  19STCV29265    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV29265




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Phillip Bernard and Antoinette
  Bernard




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Bing H. “Keni” Huang  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On August 19, 2019, Plaintiffs
Phillip Bernard and Antoinette Bernard (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant
Bing H. “Keni” Huang (“Defendant”) after allegedly being hit by a golf ball from a
golf course. Defendant filed his answer on January 14, 2020.  
 
On October
16, 2020, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related
dates from February 16, 2021 to August 19, 2022. 
 
On August
12, 2022, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial and expert
discovery cutoffs to November 28, 2022. Fact discovery remained closed. 
 
At the
final status conference, the parties orally stipulated to continue trial to
December 12, 2022. All discovery was closed. (Min. Order, 11/15/22.) 
 
On November
21, 2022, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application and continued
trial and all related dates to January 27, 2023.
 
On January
11, 2023, the Court ordered the parties to participate in a mandatory
settlement conference. The Court then continued trial, on its own, to March 24,
2023. 
 
On March
17, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application shortening the time
to hear a motion to continue trial. Pursuant to oral stipulation, the Court
continued trial to June 22, 2023. All discovery was closed with the exception
of Dr. Molaie. (See Min. Order, 3/17/23.)
 
On June 22,
2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel was engaged in another trial. Pursuant to oral
stipulation, the trial was continued to October 2, 2023. All discovery remained
closed. (Min. Order, 6/22/23.)
 
On October
2, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested a continuance since their primary expert
witness was not available due to a personal health procedure. Defendant
objected. The Court continued trial to November 1, 2023. All discovery remained
closed.
 
On November
1, 2023, trial was continued to November 6, 2023 and discovery remained closed.
When the case was called for trial, the parties each made peremptory challenges
to judicial officers under Code of Civil Procedure section 170.6. As a result,
pursuant to oral stipulation, trial was continued to March 6, 2024. Discovery
remained closed. (Min. Order, 11/6/23.) 
 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to reopen
discovery for the limited purpose of Plaintiff Phillip Bernard’s ongoing
medical care for his brain injury.   Defendant
opposes and Plaintiffs reply.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Paul Markley states that on November 10, 2023, he
sent Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding stipulating to reopen
discovery. (Markely Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Therefore, it appears Plaintiffs attempted
to resolve the matter in good faith. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Phillip
Bernard (“Plaintiff”) asserts that in this case, he was hit in the head by a
golf ball and started new treatment at Amen Clinic in October 2023. (Motion,
8.) Plaintiff argues the treatment is necessary and relevant for his case since
it is related to the brain injury he allegedly suffered due to the golf ball.
Plaintiff also argues he sent Defendant up to date treatment records on
November 10, 2023, and will allow time for Defendant’s experts to review the
material. (Motion, 8–9.) In the letter sent to Defendant’s counsel on November 10,
2023, Plaintiffs offered to make Plaintiff’s treating physician available for a
deposition in early December 2023. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that by reopening discovery, Plaintiff seeks to disguise
two new experts: Dr. Amen and Dr. Storage, as his treating doctors. Defendant
contends that Plaintiff actually seeks to supplant unfavorable testimony from
Plaintiff’s current neuropsychiatrist expert Dr. Jeffery Schaefer, who
testified that Plaintiff had no cognitive defects. (Belofsky Decl. ¶ 5–8.)
Defendant argues these doctors are not Plaintiff’s actual treating physicians;
instead, they merely performed another brain scan and another psychiatric
examination—both of which have already occurred with existing experts. Defendant
argues that by reopening discovery, he would need to depose the two new experts
and then re-depose the existing four experts. 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff clarifies that reopening discovery would allow Defendant to depose
Plaintiff’s only treating physician, Dr, Steven Storage. Contrary to
Defendant’s characterization that Dr. Storage is not a treating physician,
based on the records provided from the new treatment, it does not appear Dr.
Storage is merely retained to provide a contrary medical opinion to Dr.
Schaefer. The records show that Dr. Storage has implemented a multi-week plan
for Plaintiff’s treatment. (See Markely Decl., Exh. 2.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel states he learned of Plaintiff’s new treatment on November
6, 2023. He sent the meet and confer letter on November 10, 2023, and filed
this motion on November 15, 2023. Defendant received the new records in
November 2023. Therefore, it appears Plaintiff was diligent. Additionally, the
information appears relevant and necessary for trial since it pertains to
Plaintiff’s brain injuries. The records are only from one treating physician,
Dr. Steven Storage. While trial is set for March 6, 2024, Defendant
does not offer a reason why all discovery could not be completed by the trial
date. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to reopen discovery for a limited purpose is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED. The parties should meet and confer
promptly to ensure that all discovery can be completed by the current trial
date.
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 