 Case Number:  22STCV02323    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02323




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross Complainant Luz Elena
  Hernandez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  TC Nevada, LLC and TLC Luxury, LLC 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement in Support of Motion
3.      Request for Judicial Notice
4.      Declaration of Sarah Sakr
5.      Declaration of Luz Elena Hernandez
6.      Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
3.      Evidentiary Objections
4.      Declaration of Chris Sanchez
5.      Declaration of Nina Scotti
6.      Declaration of Robert S. Griswold
7.      Declaration of Stephen Loomis Bucklin
8.      Exhibits in Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS  
1.      Defendant’s Reply 
2.      Defendant’s Objections to Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 20, 2022, Plaintiffs
TC Nevada, LLC and TLC Luxury, LLC (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Ramon Valdez, Ramon Valdez dba Matrix Mattresses, Elias Hernandez,
Elias Hernandez dba H&H Pallet Company, Luzelena Hernandez, Luzelena
Hernandez dba H&H Pallet Company, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and
negligence per se. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on February 26, 2021, a fire destroyed ten
buses that it owned. (Complaint, 3:10–17.) Plaintiffs allege that Moving
Defendant Luz Elena Hernandez (“Defendant”) was the owner of 538 East Weber
Avenue, City of Compton, California, where she allowed pallets to be stacked in
a dangerous manner, and contrary to law, that then caused the fire to destroy
Plaintiffs’ property. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that the pallets were
stacked too high and densely to create a foreseeable risk of fire. They also
allege that Defendant negligently stored propane on the property that caused
the fire to spread. 
 
Defendant now moves for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, against
Plaintiffs arguing that she did not owe a duty and that Plaintiffs lack evidence
that Defendant is responsible. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the
applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at 855.) Alternatively, “[t]he defendant may […] present evidence
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admission by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to
the effect that he has discovered nothing.” (Id.) This must be
supported with evidence “including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’” (Id. at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(b)].) “[I]t is not reasonable for courts to infer pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), that defendants can discover
further material facts from plaintiffs' lists of people and documents if the
plaintiffs do not disclose any facts known by such persons or contained in such
documents when asked to do so.” (Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 106.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court takes judicial notice of Defendant’s exhibits 1, 2 as court records.
(Evid. Code. § 352(d).) 
 
The
Court declines to rule on Defendant’s requests for judicial notice of exhibits
3, 4, and 5, as they have no effect on the ruling herein.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court sustains Plaintiffs’ objection to the following sentence
from the Declaration of Luz Elena Hernandez: “On February 26, 2021, a massive
fire started in the alley near my property in Compton, California.” (Hernandez
Decl., 2:13–14.) 
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.)
 
“The negligence per se doctrine, as
codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if
four elements are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance,
or regulation of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or
injury to person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an
occurrence of the nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was
designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to
his person or property was one of the class of persons for whose protection the
statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The
doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an
evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action
for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)  
 
 
Here, the following facts are
undisputed. Plaintiffs own property located at 522 East Weber Avenue, Compton,
California, where their vehicles are stored. (UMF 4, 5.) Defendant is the owner
of property adjacent to Plaintiffs’ property, upon which H&H Pallets, Inc.
is located. (UMF 7, 8.)  Defendant has no
ownership interest in the alley where the fire started. (UMF 9.) 
 
Defendant sets forth the following
facts: 
 
-         
The fire originated in an alley that, to the best of
Defendant Luz Elena Hernandez’s (“Ms. Hernandez”) knowledge, is owned and
managed by the City of Compton. (UMF 2.) 
-         
Officials investigating the fire concluded that the
subject fire started in the alley where a homeless encampment was located. (UMF
3.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 4, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
in paragraph 4 on page 6 of their Complaint that “[p]allets were stacked upon
their property negligently so as to cause a course of fuel for fire that would
endanger the neighborhood,” Plaintiff stated, “Defendant accumulated large
piles of pallets on their property.” (UMF 16.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 15, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
that Defendants stacked pallets higher than the law allows, Plaintiff stated,
“Unknown.” (UMF 17.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 26, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
in paragraph 4 on page 8 of their Complaint that law(s), statute(s), and/or
ordinances existed that made it unlawful for the defendant to stack the pallets
higher than a certain limit allowed by law,” Plaintiff stated, “Unknown.” (UMF
18.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 7, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
if they contend that the fire would not have spread and destroyed their
property if the pallets were not negligently stacked, Plaintiff stated,
“Unknown.” (UMF 19.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 11, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
if they contend that the fire would not have spread and destroyed their
property if the propane was not negligently stored, Plaintiff stated,
“Unknown.” (UMF 20.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special Interrogatory
No. 22, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support their contention
in paragraph 8 on page 6 of their Complaint that “[a]s a proximate result of
defendant’s negligence ten of plaintiffs’ buses were destroyed by fire,”
Plaintiff stated, “Unknown.” In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Special
Interrogatory No. 28, which asked Plaintiffs to state all facts that support
their contention in paragraph 6 on page 8 of their Complaint that “[a]s a
proximate result of defendant’s violation of statute, ordinance, and/or law,
ten of plaintiffs’ buses were destroyed by fire,” Plaintiff stated, “Unknown.”
(UMF 21.) 
-         
In the Requests for Admission propounded onto
Plaintiffs, Ms. Hernandez sought admissions that Ms. Hernandez was not
responsible for the fire (Request No. 2), that she could not have stopped the
spread of the fire (Request No. 11), that she did not create a hazardous
condition on the H&H Pallets Property (Request No. 13), that she did not
negligently stack pallets on the H&H Pallets Property (Request No. 14) or
stack pallets to densely (Request No. 15), that Ms. Hernandez complied with all
legal requirements governing the height of pallets (Request No. 16), and that
she did not store any propane negligently (Request No. 17). (UMF 22.) 
-         
Plaintiffs denied Ms. Hernandez’s Requests for
Admissions Nos. 2, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17. (UMF 23.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Form Interrogatory No.
17.1, Plaintiffs state that their factual basis for denying Requests for
Admissions Nos. 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 is “Unknown.” (UMF 24.) 
-         
Ms. Hernandez’s Request for Production No. 7 requested
that Plaintiffs produce all documents supporting the claims they assert in
their Complaint. (UMF 27.) 
-         
In response to Ms. Hernandez’s Request for Production
No. 7, Plaintiffs identified the documents produced in Exhibits 1–22,
consisting of their own lease agreements (items 1–10), their insurance policy
(item 11), their pleadings (items 12–19), a Compton Fire Department Report
(item 20), a police report (item 21), and an estimate for bus rental costs
(item 22). (UMF 28.) 
 
Defendant has met her burden of
showing that Plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence establishing that the
pallets or propane on Defendant’s property caused or negligently contributed to
the spread of the fire. Plaintiffs do not dispute the characterization of its
discovery responses in UMF 16 to 28. Though Plaintiffs appear to argue that
Defendant has not met her burden because she has not established how the fire
started, as discussed above, Defendant may also meet her burden by establishing
that Plaintiffs cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. This has been shown
through Plaintiffs discovery responses, verified on September 28, 2023, which
do not provide evidence that Defendant’s property contributed to or started the
subject fire. (See Sakr Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs
to establish a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Plaintiffs have not set forth their
own separate statement of disputed facts. However, Plaintiffs dispute the
following facts in their responses to Defendant’s separate statement: 
 
-         
Plaintiffs dispute that the fire did not start on
Defendant’s property. (Pl. Response to UMF 10.) 
-         
Plaintiffs dispute that the documents produced by
Plaintiffs do not show that Defendant is responsible for the fire. (Pl.
Response to UMF 29.)
 
In support, Plaintiffs offer the
declarations of Nina Scotti, a fire and explosion expert and Robert Griswold,
an expert on the standard of care owed by landowners. Nina Scotti declares that
it is her opinion that the fire originated in the alley between power poll #1
and power pole #2, based on the investigation report from the U.S. Department
of Justice (Def. Exh. 5). (Scotti Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs do not dispute that
Defendant does not own the alley. Therefore, there is no triable issue of fact
regarding whether Defendant started the fire. (See Pl. Response to UMF 9.)  Next, Ms. Scotti declares the fire likely
spread from the alley to Matrix Mattress, and then to H&H Pallets, where it
ignited a high stack of pallets. (Id. ¶ 9–10.) She declares that: “[t]he
arrangement and storage height of the pallets allowed the fire to climb upward
supported by oxygen that fed through the spacing design of the pallets. The
oxygen contributed to the combustion process creating a chimney fire effect.
The heat fueled by the stack of pallets ignited more pallets and other
combustible storage, propane and vehicles in the storage yard as it continued
to spread to the adjoining property of TLC Luxury Transportation, destroying
the row of buses in a sequence.” (Id. ¶ 11–12.) 
 
“Plaintiffs cannot manufacture a
triable issue of fact through use of an expert opinion with self-serving
conclusions devoid of any basis, explanation, or reasoning.” (McGonnell v.
Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1106.) “[A]n expert's
opinion rendered without a reasoned explanation of why the underlying facts
lead to the ultimate conclusion has no evidentiary value because an expert
opinion is worth no more than the reasons and facts on which it is based.” (Bushling
v. Fremont Medical Center (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 493, 510.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ experts do not
state the facts that inform their opinions, such as evidence that Defendant’s
pallets were stacked in a way that breached her duty or a statute, ordinance,
or regulation. Instead, the experts state conclusions, without evidentiary
support, that the pallets were stacked higher than what is allowed by the “Fire
Code.” (See Griswold Decl. ¶ 5; Scotti Decl. ¶ 13.) In their opposition,
Plaintiffs also do not identify a specific law that Defendant purportedly
violated. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to show a triable issue as to
negligence per se. As for the ordinary duty owed by landowners, the Declaration
of Robert Griswold states that Defendant breached her duty by not inspecting
her property. (Griswold Decl. ¶ 4, 6.) However, as stated before, the
declaration does not identify the factual basis for the opinion that the pallets
were stacked higher than what is allowed in the “Fire Code.” 
 
Based on the above, considering all
reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs have failed to meet
their burden to establish a triable issue of fact regarding a duty surrounding
the manner in which the pallets were stacked on Defendant’s property.
Plaintiffs offer no additional facts in their separate statement, or evidence
relied upon by their experts, that show how the pallets were organized before
the fire began.[1] 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant/Cross Complainant Luz Elena Hernandez’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file a
proposed judgment within 10 days.  
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


