


[1]
Plaintiff argues that there is no evidence Plaintiff received the opt-out
agreement. Not so. Moving Defendants provided evidence of the customary
practice for new hires to receive the Agreement and acknowledgement form.
(Ripak Decl. ¶¶ 16-26; Sherrick Decl. ¶ 3, 4, 5.)
 


[2]
Plaintiff’s argument that Moving Defendants have access to her personal
information required to electronically sign the acknowledgement form is
unavailing. In particular, the court is persuaded by Exhibit H and Exhibit I to
Mr. Sherrick’s declaration that shows a multitude of other employment forms,
which Plaintiff does not dispute completing, that are time-stamped within an
hour of the Agreement signatures on October 6, 2015 and June 18, 2017.


[3]
The court notes Plaintiff’s argument that Moving Defendants did not explain
what arbitration was but disagrees with it. Moving Defendants provided evidence
that Plaintiff, as part of her training, accessed and viewed a video that did
explain arbitration. (Sherrick Decl., ¶ 17.) Accordingly, the court is also not
persuaded by Plaintiff’s dependent arguments that without such explanation she
had no real chance to seek attorney advice.


[4]
Moving Defendants also challenge Plaintiff’s assertion that requiring mailing
the opt-out form to Ohio is unconscionable. Notably, Moving Defendants contend
that mailing the opt-out form protects the employee from the employee’s
supervisor and others in their workplace from learning they decided to opt-out.

 


[5]
First, Plaintiff relies on one case that, as far as the court can tell, is no
longer good law. (Trivedi v. Curexo
Technology Corp. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387.) Second, Plaintiff relies on a
case where the failure to attach the AAA Rules directly impacted the employee’s
ability to know their rights in terms of scope of discovery. (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702 (Fitz).) Here, the Agreement sets
out, in detail, the Solutions InSTORE Early Dispute Resolution Rules and
Procedures that govern any arbitration. (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A.) Finally, the
Agreement does not incorporate the AAA Rules, but confirms that the Agreement
governs in the event of a conflict. 


[6]
This is also not an “impossibility” standard as the Court found in Fitz, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at 716.

