 Case Number:  23STCV07307    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
2, 2023                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Saul Marroquin v. Jorge Luis Ravelo
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07307

 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Jorge Luis Ravela (specially appearing pursuant to CCP § 418.10(d))
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Saul Marroquin
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
An
Order quashing service of the summons and complaint or, in the alternative, an
order setting aside the default entered on DATE.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is DENIED;
2.      Motion
to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff Saul Marroquin (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendant Jorge Luis Ravelo requesting a temporary
restraining order, a preliminary injunction, and a permanent injunction.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff purchased real
property known as Vacant Land Assessor’s Parcel No. 3049-029-019, Unincorporated
Land (Little Rock area), CA (the Property). Plaintiff claims that Defendant was
the former owner of the Property and sold it to Gary L. Gormont on November 13,
2019.  Plaintiff alleges that Gormont
then sold Plaintiff the Property in December 2019. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant accepted Plaintiff’s payments as called for by the promissory note on
the Property, that Defendant continued to accept payments until April 2022, and
after refusing to accept payments recorded a Notice of Default and Election to
Sell Under Deed of Trust on November 28, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant seeks to
foreclose on the Property despite Gormont’s family initiating probate
proceedings to obtain an order confirming title in Plaintiff’s name.
 
On May 8, 2023, Defendant was served via substituted
service. Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons on May 15, 2023. 
 
On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for entry of
default, which was entered that day.
 
On September 12, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion.
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition to motion to
set aside default. On October 26, 2023, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes: To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the
summons to file a responsive pleading, plus an additional 10 days if substitute
served.  (CCP § 412.20, subd. (a)(3); CCP § 415.20, subd.
(b).)   
 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)  
 
ANALYSIS:
 
CCP
§ 415.20
 
Defendant denies that service was effectuated against him in
accordance with CCP § 415.20. Plaintiff did not address this in his
non-opposition. Instead, Plaintiff notes that the motion to quash is moot in
light of his agreement to set aside default. 
 
“An individual may be served by substitute service only after
a good faith effort at personal service has first been made: the burden is on
the plaintiff to show that the summons and complaint ‘cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered’ to defendants. [Citations.] Two or three
attempts to personally serve a defendant at a proper place ordinarily qualifies as ‘reasonable diligence.’” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 389.) If the summons and complaint cannot be
personally delivered with reasonable diligence, then a copy may be served at
the person’s “dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box…who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the person to be
served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
mailing.” (CCP § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
 
Here, the court disagrees with Defendant that service was
improper. First, the proof of service complies with the code because it
contains a declaration of diligence indicating five attempts at personal
service before service on May 8, 2023. (Proof of Service.)  Defendant only
challenges the person identified as receiving process on May 8, 2023, however,
this argument ignores that the CCP allows the substituted service at the “usual
mailing address . . . in the presence of . . . a person apparently in charge.”
(CCP § 415.20(b).) Additionally, “Evidence Code section 647 provides that a
registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption
affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in the
declaration.  [Citation.]”  (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code
§ 647.)  Defendant admits that the service address is his mailing address
and has been for the past 30 years. (Decl. of Ravelo, ¶ 2.) Indeed, Defendant
admits to have received the summons and complaint in the mail at this address
and sent these documents to his prior attorney. (Id. at ¶ 5.)
 
Therefore, service of the summons and complaint by
substituted service was valid.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendant’s motion to quash
service of summons and complaint.
 
CCP
§ 473(b)
 
Defendant argues that the court should set
aside the default entered against him because he honestly believed his prior
attorney would take action and defend him in this lawsuit. Plaintiff does not
oppose setting aside the default and asks the court to order Defendant to file
a responsive pleading within 14 days of an order setting aside the default.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §473(b), both
discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding.  Discretionary relief is available
under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (CCP §¿473(b).) 
Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when “accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  (Ibid.)  Under
this statute, an application for discretionary or mandatory relief must be made
no more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
“‘[W]hen relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a
strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of granting relief and allowing the requesting
party his or her day in court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
Here, in light of
the parties’ stipulation to set aside default and review of the declarations in
support of setting aside default, the court agrees that setting aside default
is proper. First, Defendant timely moved to set aside default because he filed
the instant motion within 3 months of entry of default. Second, Defendant, as a
party, relied on his prior counsel to defend him in this lawsuit and retained
new counsel when prior counsel stopped returning his calls. (Ravelo Decl. ¶¶
4-5.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant has demonstrated good cause to set aside default.
 
Therefore,
Defendant’s motion to set aside default is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion to Quash Service of
Summons and Complaint is DENIED;
2.Motion to Set Aside Default is
GRANTED.
 
The proposed Answer filed 9/19/23 is deemed filed. Defendant
ordered to file stand alone document Captioned “Answer” within ten days.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             November
2, 2023                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 