 Case Number:  23STCV15885    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
2, 2023                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Vicky
Garcia v. Macy’s Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV15885

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Macy’s, Inc. and Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Vicky Garcia
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
An
Order compelling arbitration;
2.      
An
Order dismissing or staying the case pending arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      
Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
2.      
Matter
is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 7, 2023, Plaintiff Vicky Garcia (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Macy’s, Inc., Macy’s West Stores, Inc., Macy’s
Retail Holdings, LLC, and Karina Vasquez with thirteen causes of action for:
(1) Discrimination in Violation of Gov’t Code §§ 12940 et seq.; (2) Retaliation
in Violation of Gov’t Code §§12940 et seq.; (3) Failure to Prevent
Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code §12940(k); (4)
Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of Gov’t Code §§12940
et seq.; (5) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation
of Gov’t Code §§12940 et seq.; (6) Violation of California Family Rights Act,
Gov’t Code §§12945.2 et seq; (7) For Declaratory Judgment; (8) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (9) Failure to Pay Wages; (10)
Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Periods (Lab. Code §§226.7, 512); (11) Failure
to Provide Itemized Wage Statements (Cal. Labor Code §§226 et seq.); (12)
Waiting Time Penalties (Cal. Labor Code §§201-203); and (13) Unfair Competition
(Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq.).
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff was hired by
Defendants on August 15, 2025 as a full-time non-exempt kitchen Sales
Associate. She alleges she worked 35-40 hours per week from about July 7, 2019
to June 11, 2020 and was paid $16.60 per hour from July 7, 2019 to September
21, 2019 and $18.00 per hour from September 22, 2019 to June 11, 2020. She
further alleges she was not always provided with uninterrupted 30-minute meal
periods and 10-minute rest periods. Plaintiff alleges that on or about June 11,
2020 she sustained injuries that made it difficult for her to walk. Due to her
injuries, Plaintiff requested time to recover and reasonable accommodations.
From June 10, 2020 to June 14, 2021, Plaintiff took medical leave due to her
injuries and kept Defendants regularly updated as to her ongoing medical
situation. On June 14, 2021, Plaintiff’s medical providers cleared her for
work. On June 15, 2021, Plaintiff visited her workplace and informed her
manager she was able to return to work with some restrictions. On July 7, 2021,
Plaintiff discovered she had been removed from the schedule and was told by a
corporate representative that she had been terminated due to her medical leave
and was not eligible to return to work. Plaintiff alleges she reapplied for her
position, and two other open positions, but Defendants did not rehire her.
 
On August 10, 2023, Defendants Macy’s, Inc. and Macy’s
Retail Holdings, LLC filed an Answer to the Complaint.
 
On September 19, 2023, Defendants Macy’s, Inc. and Macy’s
Retail Holdings, LLC (Moving Defendants) timely filed the instant motion to
compel arbitration. On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed an opposition.
On October 26, 2023, Moving Defendants timely filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections:
 
Although the court is unaware of any
legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a
motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication, the Court
nonetheless, overrules the objections. [Cal. Code Civ. Proc. (CCP)
§ 437c(q)] or a special motion to strike [CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.]
 
Compel Arbitration:
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendants met their initial burden because
they attached a copy of the Solutions InSTORE Plan Document (the Agreement)
with Plaintiff’s electronic signature acknowledging receipt of the Agreement.
(Declaration of Cynthia Ripak (Ripak Decl.) ¶7, 8, Exhibit A; Declaration of Barry
Sherrick (Sherrick Decl.) ¶ 13, Exhibit G.) Both California and Federal law
provides that electronic signatures on arbitration agreements are valid. The
California Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (“UETA”) indicates that an
electronic signature has the same legal effect as handwritten signature. Thus, Moving
Defendants satisfied their initial burden to compel arbitration. 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Plaintiff argues that Moving Defendants
have failed to establish a valid agreement and contests the validity of the
electronic signature. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that she does not recall
receiving or signing the agreement. 
 
Once Plaintiff challenges the validity of the signature,
“defendants were then required to establish by a preponderance of the evidence
that the signature was authentic.” (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060 (Espejo).) Espejo dealt with an electronic
signature. In Espejo, the
supplemental declaration of the systems consultant provided the necessary
information to establish the authenticity of the document, specifically how the
unique username and password were only accessible to that specific individual.
(Id. at 1062). In Gamboa, in contrast, the Court
determined that the declaration provided by the director of human resources was
insufficient, because the declarant failed to provide facts demonstrating how
she had personal knowledge of what she stated. (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 169). 
 
Here, unlike Gamboa,
Moving Defendants provided declarations from Ms. Ripak, Senior Manager of the
Office of Solutions InSTORE for Macy’s, Inc. and its divisions, and Mr. Sherrick,
Manager, Software Engineering for Macy’s Systems and Technology, Inc., who are
personally familiar and have oversight over the preparation and retention of
business records pertaining to agreements between Moving Defendants and their
employees, including agreements to arbitrate, along with overseeing the
preparation and/or or retention of personnel files. Just like in Espejo, where the defendant provided a
declaration that discussed the “steps an applicant would have to take to place
his or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement,” (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 1062),
Ripak and Sherrick attested to the authenticity of the password protected
electronic signature. In sum, Moving Defendants provided credible evidence that
Plaintiff was the only person able to access her login credentials to review
and acknowledge receipt of the Agreement. 
(Sherrick Decl., ¶ 4, 5, 9.) Further, Moving Defendants produced
business records that attest that Plaintiff’s employment file shows that on October
6, 2015 and June 18, 2017, Plaintiff acknowledged receipt of the Agreement
which clearly notified Plaintiff that Plaintiff had 30 days from her hire date,
to opt out of the agreement by returning an enclosed opt-out form via U.S. Mail.[1]
(Sherrick Decl., Exhibit G.) The employment records indicate that Plaintiff had
not opted out within 30 days of either date of hire. (Ripak Decl., ¶¶ 29-30.) Thus,
the evidence indicates that Plaintiff effectively accepted the Agreement on November
7, 2015 and again on July 19, 2017. (Ibid.)  Lastly, the court is not persuaded by
Plaintiff’s lack of authentication argument. While Plaintiff herself does not
recall electronically signing any arbitration agreement, she does not deny
signing the Agreement.[2]
 
Thus, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s claim denying remembering
signing the Agreement, the court finds that Moving Defendants have met their
burden by a preponderance of the evidence establishing the existence of a valid
agreement between the parties. 
 
Therefore, the Defendant has
established that the Arbitration Agreement exists.  
 
2.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Applicability of
Agreement to Subject Dispute
 
Moving Defendants contend the Agreement covers the subject
dispute because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise
excluded by the Agreement. Plaintiff did not directly oppose this argument.
 
Here, the Agreement covers the instant dispute. First, the
Agreement states it covers “disputes regarding your employment” subject to
certain exclusions not applicable here. (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A.) Plaintiff’s
claim against Moving Defendants concerns her employment with them and is not
otherwise carved out.
 
Therefore, the Agreement applies to the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to
Arbitration
 
Once it is determined that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of
the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo
v. Catalina Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review
denied (Nov. 13, 2019)). 
 
Unconscionability
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable,
there is both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).  
 
a.     
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues significant oppression and surprise because
the Agreement is a contract of adhesion and Moving Defendants failed to attach
the AAA rules.[3]
Moving Defendants reply that Plaintiff had 30 days to take the Agreement to an
attorney, or anywhere else she chose, ask any questions she wanted, investigate
any provisions she did not understand, and proceed with her employment whether
she opted-out or not.[4]
Moving Defendants also contend that the Agreement is not hidden and that the
AAA rules are gap-fillers to the Agreement’s primary rules.
 
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27 (OTO).)
 
Here, while this may have been a contract of adhesion, as
most employment contracts are, this alone does not mean the whole agreement is
procedurally unconscionable. “When arbitration is a condition of employment, there is
inherently economic pressure on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone
is a fairly low level of procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Plaintiff
has not provided evidence that she was rushed or under duress to complete the
Agreement. Additionally, Plaintiff’s contention that the Agreement was
voluminous with hidden terms is not well taken. (OTO LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 127-28 [identifying a
“visually impenetrable” agreement that “challenge[d] the limits of
legibility.”]) Specifically, the Agreement breaks down Moving Defendants’
entire internal dispute resolution process, including arbitration, in its
4-step program which is thorough, incorporates diagrams, uses plain language,
and also a chart highlighting the distinctions between arbitration and a
traditional litigation. (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A.) 
 
The court is also not persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument that
failure to attach the AAA Employment Arbitration rules renders the Agreement severely
procedurally unconscionable.[5] (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690 (Lane) [agreeing that “failure to attach the arbitration
rules could be a factor in support of a finding of procedural
unconscionability, but disagree[d] that failure, by itself, is sufficient to
sustain a finding of procedural unconscionability.”]) Notably, the only section
the court has seen in the Agreement that references the applicability of the
AAA Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures is under Article 2 of
the Agreement and states that in the event of a conflict between the Agreement
and the AAA Rules, the Agreement governs. (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A.) Therefore,
unlike Plaintiff’s contention, she does not need to locate and analyze the AAA
Rules in order to understand her rights and expectations under the Agreement.
They are spelled out for her. 
 
Accordingly, the Agreement is minimally procedurally
unconscionable.
 
b.     
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is substantively
unconscionable because “repeat player” bias renders the AAA non-neutral and the
Agreement does not provide for enough discovery. Moving Defendants reply that
the “repeat player” argument is preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act and
the Agreement provides for more than minimal discovery. The parties do not
dispute the remaining Armendariz
factors.
 
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p. 85). There are five minimum
substantive requirements to an enforceable arbitration agreement: (1) neutral
arbitrators, (2) more than minimal discovery, (3) written award sufficient for
judicial review, (4) all types of relief otherwise available in court, and (5)
no unreasonable costs or fees as a condition of access. (Armendariz, supra, at p.102.) When there is little procedural
unconscionability, a party opposing arbitration must show substantial
substantive unconscionability. (Id.
at 114.)
 
Here, the court agrees with Moving Defendants that the
Agreement meets the Armendariz
factors. First, the Agreement does provide for a neutral arbitrator because it
states that the arbitrator is selected by each party. (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A.)
Plaintiff cites no authority supporting her contention that the arbitrator
would not be neutral. As to discovery, the court does not agree with Plaintiff
that the Agreement prohibitively curtails discovery. First, the Agreement
provides for “initial disclosures” that require each party to “provide to the
other party copies of all documents . . . in its possession, custody or control
and upon which the disclosing party will rely in support of the disclosing
parties claims or defenses.” (Ripak Decl., Exhibit A, Article 10(a).)
Additionally, Plaintiff may request a copy of her personnel file. (Ibid.) As for other discovery, the
parties may propound 1 set of 20 interrogatories, one of which may be a request
for documents the responding party used to prepare the interrogatory responses.
(Id. at Article 10(b).) Finally, the Agreement provides for
three depositions. (Ibid.) In
conjunction with the initial disclosures, the court does not see why either
party could not tailor their additional interrogatory requests to obtain the
information they need. As to additional discovery, unlike the authority
Plaintiff cites, the Agreement provides that upon “a showing of appropriate
justification” the arbitrator may allow further discovery. (Ibid.) This standard is not prohibitive,
as it was in Baxter, where the
agreement limited discovery to 10 interrogatories (each subpart counting as an
interrogatory), two depositions capped at 8 hours, and requiring “good and
sufficient cause” for the arbitrator to allow additional discovery. (Baxter v. Genworth North America Corp.
(2017) 16Cal.App.5th 713, 727 (Baxter).)[6]
Accordingly, the Agreement provides for more than minimal discovery.
 
Therefore, the Agreement is not substantively unconscionable
such that compelling arbitration is unwarranted.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      
Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
2.      
Matter
is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
OSC re: status of Arbitration on April 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             November
2, 2023                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


