  Case Number:  23SMCV02548    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Tebbens v. McKinnon,
et al., Case No. 23SMCV02548
Hearing date January
11, 2024
Defendant
McKinnon’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint 
 
At an October 12,
2023 case management conference and OSC re: failure to file proof of service, plaintiff
indicated defendant McKinnon was evading service. The Court instructed
plaintiff to serve or request service by publication. On October 12, 2023 the
court granted the application for order to serve via publication. 
 
Defendant moves to
quash service. The opposition was filed late but will be considered. Cal Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1300, subd. (d). No proof of service was filed with the opposition;
plaintiff is to file a proof of service before the hearing.  
 
Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1) allows a defendant to file a notice of motion “[t]o quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of the court over him or her.” Plaintiff
has the burden of proving proper service. Service by publication is appropriate
where “it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be
served.” Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a). 
 
Where service by
publication is allowed, the court will “order the summons to be published in a
named newspaper, published in this state, that is most likely to give actual
notice to the party to be served.” Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (b). “If
the party to be served resides or is located out of this state, the court may
also order the summons to be published in a named newspaper outside this state
that is most likely to give actual notice to that party.” Ibid. Service
by publication “is deemed complete as provided in Section 6064 of the
Government Code.” Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (c). Thus, a party must
publish the summons “once a week for four successive weeks.” Gov. Code, § 6064.
“Four publications in a newspaper regularly published once a week or oftener,
with at least five days intervening between the respective publication dates
not counting such publication dates, are sufficient. Ibid. 
 
Defendant argues
plaintiff neither sent a copy of the summons and complaint via certified mail
nor filed a proof of service. Schofield Decl., ¶ 4. However, the court
considers whether proof of service via publication was proper, as the court
signed an order allowing for service via publication, both in the Los Angeles
Times and Chicago Tribune, as defendant lives in Chicago.
 
Exhibit D to the
Tebbens declaration is proof of publication that the summons was posted in the
Los Angeles Times on December 7, December 14, December 21 and December 28,
2023. Notice in the Los Angeles Times was proper.  
 
However, plaintiff
failed to provide evidence that publication in the Chicago Tribune was properly
effectuated. Plaintiff provided a copy of a receipt for a print ad on the
Chicago Tribune website; however, the Court cannot ascertain whether service
was proper as ordered. Tebbens Decl., Exhibit D. Plaintiff has not shown
sufficient evidence that defendant was properly served by publication in the
Chicago Tribune, as ordered. Motion to quash GRANTED.