 Case Number:  23AHCV02147    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      June 3, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ANITA RUBY
VENTIMIGLIA, et al. v. ARTHUR CARLISLE, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02147
(related case: 23AHCV02782)
 
 
 
MOTION
TO TRANSFER AND CONSOLIDATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Anita Ruby Ventimiglia
and David Anthony Ventimiglia
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants
Arthur Carlisle and Harriet Carlisle
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 9, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 22, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   None filed as of 5/30/24
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiffs request this Court order
transfer and consolidation of Case No. 23AHCV02782 with this instant case. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Anita
Ruby Ventimiglia and David Anthony Ventimiglia’s (“Plaintiffs”) claims that
Defendant Arthur Carlisle entered into a “rent-to-own” Agreement with
Plaintiffs, which Defendant Harriet Carlisle concealed from family court during
the defendants’ divorce proceedings. 
 
Plaintiffs filed the operative
First Amended Complaint against Defendants Arthur Carlisle and Harriet Carlisle
(“Defendants”) on May 22, 2024, asserting causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Purchase Agreement; (2) Breach of Express Oral Trust; (3) Promissory Estoppel;
(4) Quiet Title; (5) Promissory Fraud; (6) Equitable Estoppel; (7) Quantum
Meruit; (8) Declaratory Relief; (9) Negligence; and (10) Preliminary and
Permanent Injunction. 
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Plaintiffs’ motion for an order transferring
and consolidating the cases is GRANTED IN PART as to the
request for transfer and DENIED IN PART as to the request for consolidation. 
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice of the Complaint in Arthur Carlisle, et al. v.
Harriet Carlisle, et al., Case No. 23AHCV02782 is GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d). 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 states in relevant part, “[w]hen
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048.) 
 
Furthermore, California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a), provides in
pertinent part, “[a] pending civil case is related to another pending civil
case, or to a civil case that was dismissed with or without prejudice, or to a
civil case that was disposed of by judgment, if the cases: (1) [i]nvolve the
same parties and are based on the same or similar claims; (2) [a]rise from the
same or substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring
the determination of the same or substantially identical questions of law or
fact; (3) [i]nvolve claims against, title to, possession of, or damages to the
same property; or (4) [a]re likely for other reasons to require substantial
duplication of judicial resources if heard by different judges.” (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.300(a).) 
 
“A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions from another court
to that judge’s court for coordination with an action involving a common
question of fact or law within the meaning of Section 404. The motion shall be
supported by a declaration stating facts showing that the actions meet the
standards specified in Section 404.1, are not complex as defined by the
Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a good faith effort to
obtain agreement to the transfer from all parties to each action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 403.)
 
“Coordination of civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law
is appropriate if one judge hearing all of the actions for all purposes in a
selected site or sites will promote the ends of justice taking into account
whether the common question of fact or law is predominating and significant to
the litigation; the convenience of parties, witnesses, and counsel; the
relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel; the
efficient utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; the calendar of the
courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or
judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement of the actions without further
litigation should coordination be denied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs
move for an order transferring and consolidating two related actions. The first
action is this instant case (“Lead Case”) and involves Plaintiffs’ breach of
contract and quiet title claims. Specifically, the Lead Case alleges
Plaintiffs’ entered into a “Rent-to-Own” Agreement (“RTO Agreement”) with
Defendant Arthur Carlisle for the property located at 2320 South Garfield
Avenue, Monterey Park, CA 91754 (the “Garfield Property”) and incurred
remodeling expenses on reliance on the RTO Agreement. The Lead Case further
alleges Defendant Harriet Carlisle concealed the RTO Agreement from the family
law court during the Defendants’ divorce proceedings causing the Garfield
Property to be sold. The second action is Case No. 23AHCV02782 (“Related
Case”), which was brought by Defendants against Plaintiffs for unlawful
detainer (“UD”) of the Garfield Property. Additionally, the Lead Case is being
heard in this Court and the Related Case is being heard in Department 3 of
Alhambra Courthouse. 
 
            The
two cases were ordered related on May 13, 2024. Furthermore, both cases have
the same parties, concern the same contractual agreement, and concern the same
property. Both cases also involve the same issues of fact and law as it relates
to the ownership and possession of the Garfield Property. Moreover, the parties
themselves are the main witnesses in both matters. In addition, counsel of
record for Defendants purports that a cross-complaint will be filed against
Plaintiffs from the neighbors of the Garfield Property claiming to be the new
legal owners. 
 
The Court notes that Defendants
do not oppose transferring the Related Case to this Department. (Opp. 2:5.)
However, Defendants argue consolidation would be contrary to the UD trial
precedence requirements, will cause delay in determining the critical issue of
possession, and will increase costs to the parties. Specifically, Defendants
contend the Related Case is ready to go to trial while the Lead Case is not.
Defendants further argue discovery in the Lead Case is likely to take over nine
months to complete because it involves issues such as personal injury,
contract, and employment. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1170.5, “[i]f the defendant appears pursuant to Section 1170, trial of
the proceeding shall be held not later than the 20th day following the date
that the request to set the time of the trial is made. Judgment shall be
entered thereon and, if the plaintiff prevails, a writ of execution shall be
issued immediately by the court upon the request of the plaintiff.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1170.5.) 
 
“In all proceedings brought to
recover the possession of real property pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter all courts, wherein such actions are or may hereafter be pending, shall
give such actions precedence over all other civil actions therein, except
actions to which special precedence is given by law, in the matter of the
setting the same for hearing or trial, and in hearing the same, to the end that
all such actions shall be quickly heard and determined.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1179(a).)
 
The Court finds that
consolidation of the two cases would not avoid unnecessary costs and delay of
the pending issues. Plaintiffs’ contend the Related Case is now for money owed
on the RTO Agreement based on an assignment of rents from the alleged new owners
of the Garfield Property. By contrast, Defendants contend that possession of
the Garfield Property is still at issue in the Related Case. Thus, provided the
trial precedence for UD actions, the issue of possession could easily and more
efficiently be resolved in the Related Case. As mentioned by Defendants,
resolving the issue of possession in the Related Case would aid in limiting the
issues in dispute in the Lead Case. 
             
            Therefore,
Plaintiffs’ motion for an order transferring and consolidating the cases is
granted in part as to the transfer and denied in part as to the consolidation. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for an order transferring and consolidating the cases is
GRANTED IN PART as to the request for transfer and DENIED IN PART as to the
request for consolidation. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   June 3, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court