  Case Number:  21SMCV00176    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  WW WESTWOOD, L.P.,    Plaintiff, v.  EBI NIKJOO, D.D.S., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  21SMCV00176     Hearing Date:  December 13, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR    RECONSIDERATION     BACKGROUND This action arises from a landlord-tenant dispute.  Plaintiff WW Westwood, L.P. (“Landlord”) owns the property located at 10921 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles California.  Defendant Ebi Nikjoo D.D.S. (“Tenant”) leases Suite 601 of the property (the “Property”) pursuant to a written lease agreement (the “Lease”).  Tenant operates a general dentistry practice at the Property.  Tenant failed to pay rent.   Tenant claims Landlord allegedly failed to provide maintenance and repair services, as required by the terms of the Lease.   Tenant claims this failure prevented him from providing dental services to his patients, which resulted in a loss of over $300,000, which he now seeks to offset against his rental obligation.  The Court previously granted summary judgment in favor of Plaintiff.  The Court concluded Tenant lacked personal knowledge about the alleged failures to provide maintenance and repair services and his declaration was therefore, deficient and could not present a triable issue.   Tenant now moves for reconsideration of the order.  Tenant submits a supplemental declaration which he claims shows he has personal knowledge of the lack of maintenance, repairs, services and utilities in the Property.   LEGAL STANDARD Pursuant to¿Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008(a):¿  “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code of Civ. Proc., §1008(a).)¿  A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.”¿ (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal. App. 4th 1494, 1499.)  There is a strict requirement of diligence, meaning the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence, different facts, or law earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)¿ A motion for reconsideration is properly denied when it is based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the original motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460;¿Hennigan v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 406.)  EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the Supplemental Declarations of Ebi Nikjoo and Ron Rosen Janfaza.   DISCUSSION The Court lacks jurisdiction to consider Tenant’s motion for reconsideration because judgment was already entered in Plaintiff’s favor on October 12, 2023.  Before entry of judgment, “the court retains complete power to change its decision as the court may determine; it may change its conclusions of law or findings of fact,” which include hearing a motion for reconsideration.  (Nave v. Taggart (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1177.)  “After entry of judgment, however, the trial court loses its power to rule on a reconsideration motion.”  (Ramon v. Aerospace Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1237.)  A final judgment terminates the litigation between the parties and leaves nothing in the nature of judicial action to be done other than questions of enforcement or compliance.  (Id. at 1238.)   Given the entry of judgment in Plaintiff’s favor, the Court has no jurisdiction to rule on Tenant’s motion for reconsideration.   In addition, Tenant has failed to show that he could not have presented the facts enumerated in his supplemental declaration at the time of the original motion.   A party seeking reconsideration of a prior order based on “new or different facts, circumstances or law” must provide a satisfactory explanation for failing to present the information at the first hearing.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)  Tenant argues that the objection to his declaration as lacking personal knowledge was not raised until the reply.  But Tenant should have known that any supporting declaration must be supported by personal knowledge.  In opposing a summary judgment, Tenant was required to submit admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. 437c(d)¿(“Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made by a person on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the affidavits or declarations.”).)   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant Ebi Nikjoo’s motion for reconsideration.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 13, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 