  Case Number:  21STCV03630    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


June 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV03630




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Luiz Mussnich




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant RT Features U.S., LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Luiz Mussnich (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant RT Features U.S., LLC
(“Defendant”) to produce its person most qualified to testify at deposition and
to produce documents set forth in its deposition notice.  Defendant opposes the motion.
 
ANALYSIS
If a party to the
action fails to appear for deposition after service of a deposition notice, and
the party has not served a valid objection to that deposition notice, the party
who noticed the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to
attend and testify at deposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff served
Defendant with a notice of deposition. 
Defendant asserts t has advised Plaintiff Defendant is agreeable to producing
its person most qualified to appear for deposition on a mutually convenient
date.  (Opposition to Motion to Compel
Deposition, pp. 2-3.)  Accordingly, the
Court grants the motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable.  
Defendant objected
to the deposition notice on the bases the requests for production of documents
and things at deposition sought information equally available to Plaintiff and Plaintiff
seeks proprietary and confidential business information.  If Defendant sought to avoid producing
documents on specified topics, Defendant was required to seek a protective
order so “[t]hat certain matters not be inquired into.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(9).)  Defendant did not do so.  The scope of the requested information is not
an “error or irregularity” in the deposition notice to which Defendant could
object.  (Id., subd. (a).)
Defendant also
argues Plaintiff failed to adequately attempt to informally resolve this matter
through a meet and confer process.  But Plaintiff
would not withdraw the motion and, after filing it, did not meet and confer to arrange
for a mutually agreeable deposition date. 

Plaintiff seeks
sanctions as compensation for attorney fees and costs incurred in bringing this
motion. The court declines to award sanctions in this instance because it
appears Plaintiff was aware Defendant’s most knowledgeable person would not
appear at the deposition, and Defendant had recently retained new counsel.  (Declaration of Arash Sadat in Support of
Motion to Compel Deposition, Exhibit I.) 
Nonetheless, Plaintiff proceeded with the deposition.  Under these circumstances, therefore, an
award of sanctions would be unjust.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  However,
the court will revisit the issue of sanctions should Defendant fail to produce
its person most knowledgeable to testify in compliance with this order.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to
produce its person most qualified to testify on specified topics and to produce
documents is granted.  Defendant is to
produce its person most qualified for deposition within 30 days of the notice
of this order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise.  The scope of the deposition is as set forth
in Exhibit G to the Declaration of Arash Sadat in support of the motion. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of same.
 