..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23CHCV01244
Plaintiff's Name: Maryam Haidari
Defendant's Name: Christopher Johnson and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
People-Names: Maryam Haidari, Christopher Johnson, Colleen M. Mullen, Jon B. Landerville, LAPD Officer Solis
Company-Names: JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Places: Los Angeles, California, Oso Avenue, Saticoy Street
Dates: May 29, 2022, April 17, 2024, June 27, 2023, July 3, 2024, July 9, 2024
Events: Collision between Plaintiff's bicycle and Defendant Johnson's vehicle, filing of complaint, answers, motion for summary judgment, opposition, reply
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To determine whether the motion for summary judgment is granted or denied
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Johnson was negligent in causing the collision, while Defendant argues that Plaintiff was negligent in running a red light
Disputes: Comparative negligence, breach of duty to exercise reasonable care, vicarious liability
Acts: Plaintiff's deposition testimony, Defendant's deposition testimony, expert declarations, surveillance camera footage
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Vehicle Code § 21451, California Civil Code § 1714, Code of Civil Procedure § 437c
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima, Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc., Sangster v. Paetkau, Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc., Maxwell v. Colburn, Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co., Hendricks v. Pappas
Statutes: California Vehicle Code § 21451, California Civil Code § 1714, Code of Civil Procedure § 437c
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements:
* The Court agrees that there is a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff ran a red light.
* The Court finds that Plaintiff has met her responsive evidentiary burden to show that a triable issue exists as to whether Johnson breached his duty of reasonable care.
* The Court agrees that there is a triable issue as to whether JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is vicariously liable for Johnson's conduct.
* The motion is denied.
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling denying the motion for summary judgment filed by the Defendants, Christopher Johnson and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Plaintiff, Maryam Haidari, alleges that the Defendants were negligent in causing a collision between her bicycle and Johnson's vehicle on May 29, 2022.

The Defendants argue that Plaintiff was negligent in running a red light and that Johnson exercised due care in driving through the intersection. The Plaintiff argues that there are material factual disputes that must be decided by a jury, including whether Johnson was negligent in failing to observe Plaintiff crossing the intersection and whether Plaintiff had the right of way under California Vehicle Code § 21451.

The Court agrees that there is a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff ran a red light and that Plaintiff has met her responsive evidentiary burden to show that a triable issue exists as to whether Johnson breached his duty of reasonable care. The Court also finds that there is a triable issue as to whether JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is vicariously liable for Johnson's conduct.

Therefore, the motion for summary judgment is denied, and the case will proceed to trial.
