  Case Number:  22CHCV01127    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 8, 2024
 

MOTIONS FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDERS

(Special
Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV01127

 
Motions filed: 1/22/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ramon Lopez and Yolanda Cruz
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Irma Leticia Nila (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: ok  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: A protective order finding that (1)
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, propounded on each Moving Defendant,
need not be responded to; or, alternatively, (2) that the number of special
interrogatories be appropriately limited, with each Moving Defendant provided
at least 30 days after the Court’s ruling to provide responses to the same. Moving
Defendants also seek monetary sanctions to be imposed against Plaintiff and her
counsel in the amount of $1,519.56.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted in part. Moving
Defendants to serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 72–82, within 30 days. The Court declines
imposing monetary sanctions against either party.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in
which Plaintiff alleges that on 2/18/22, she was injured while exiting an
apartment complex located at 11850 Gladstone Ave., Sylmar California 91342,
when she tripped over a sidewalk elevated by a tree root and fell onto the
concrete. (Compl. ¶
11.) Plaintiff alleges that nonmoving defendants County of Los Angeles (the
“County”) and City of Los Angeles (the “City”) owned and maintained the public
sidewalk, and that Moving Defendants owned and maintained the surrounding
property and curtilage. (Id. at ¶¶
8–9.)
 
On 11/10/22, Plaintiff filed the
instant action, alleging against Defendants Negligence and Statutory Liability.
On 12/16/22, the County filed its answer. On 12/27/22, Moving Defendants filed
their answer. On 1/17/23, the City filed its answer and cross-complaint against
Moving Defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Indemnification; (2) Apportionment of Fault; and (3) Declaratory Relief. On
3/22/23, Moving Defendants filed their answer to the City’s cross-complaint. On
4/13/23, Plaintiff dismissed the County from the instant action without
prejudice.
 
On 12/21/23, Plaintiff served Moving
Defendants with her first set of Special Interrogatories. (Ex. A to Decl. of Mineh
Eisaeian.) On 1/22/24, Moving Defendants filed the instant motion for a
protective order. On 6/24/24 and 6/25/24, Plaintiff filed her oppositions. On
7/1/24, Moving Defendants filed their replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.               
Meet and Confer
 
A motion for protective order must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.090, subd. (a); 2016.040.)
 
Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel
declares that beginning on 1/3/24, she met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel regarding the issues raised in the instant motion, but the parties were
unable to come to a resolution. (Eisaeian Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.) While Plaintiff disputes the sufficiency of
the meet and confer process, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the
meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090.
 
B.                
Protective Order
 
When document requests, interrogatories,
or a deposition notice have been propounded, the responding party, may promptly
move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.420, subd. (a), 2030.090, subd. (a), 2031.060, subd.
(a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2025.420, subd. (b), 2030.090, subd. (b), 2031.060, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, propounded to each Moving Defendant, consists of  82 interrogatories, seeking, inter alia, the
identities of every person who owned, controlled, or maintained the subject
premises, sidewalk, tree, tree well, and block. (Ex. A to Eisaeian Decl.) Moving
Defendants argue that “no circumstances exist in this straightforward trip and
fall incident case that justify Plaintiff and her counsel’s serving both
Defendants with 82 identical special interrogatories, which are excessive in
number, not appropriately tailored, and are not warranted in this non-complex
case.” (Def.’s Mot. 5:21–26.)
 
1.     
Supporting Declaration
 
The discovery statute requires a
propounding party to attach a supporting declaration to special interrogatories
exceeding the statutory limit of 35 interrogatories, based on any of the
following reasons: “(1) The complexity or the quantity of the existing and
potential issues in the particular case; (2) The financial burden on a
party entailed in conducting the discovery by oral deposition; (3) The
expedience of using this method of discovery to provide to the responding party
the opportunity to conduct an inquiry, investigation, or search of files or
records to supply the information sought.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.040, subd. (a).)
In the supporting declaration, the propounding party is required to “state each
factor described in Section 2030.040 that is relied on, as well as the reasons
why any factor relied on is applicable to the instant lawsuit.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.050.) “If
the responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of
specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall
have the burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.040,
subd. (b).)
 
Here, in support of Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that “this
number of questions is warranted under Section 2030.040 of the Code of Civil
Procedure because of the complexity and/or the quantity of the existing
potential issues in this particular case.” (Ex. B to Eisaeian Decl., ¶ 8.) In bringing the
instant motion, Moving Defendants argue that “there are no facts included in
the declarations supporting the conclusory assertions that additional special
interrogatories are warranted ‘because of the complexity and/or the quantity of
the existing potential issues in this particular case.’ To the contrary, as
demonstrated by the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint, the issues presented
are not complex and there are few issues in this common place trip and fall
incident case with a single cause of action for general negligence/premises
liability.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:7–12.)
 
Moving Defendants further argues
that to the extent that Plaintiff intends to rely on the remaining reasons
provided in the statute, these arguments fail because “Plaintiff’s counsel also
fails to assert the interrogatories are being used in lieu of taking
Defendants’ oral depositions. … Nowhere does Plaintiff’s counsel claim the
interrogatories are a more expedient method for to obtain the information from
other means of discovery ot [sic] to demonstrate the same.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:26–8:1,
citing Ex. B to Eisaeian Decl.; Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.040, subds. (a)(2)–(3).)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff mistakenly
asserts that the burden of proof belongs to Moving Defendants, as the
responding parties, to establish the undue burden of responding to Plaintiff’s
special interrogatories. (Pl.’s Opp. 6:16–17, citing Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 539, 549.) While this may be the usual rule for
protective orders, here, the statute explicitly provides that the filing of the
instant motion challenging Plaintiff’s supporting declaration shifts the burden
to Plaintiff as the propounding party to justify the number of interrogatories.
(Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.040, subd. (b).) “To meet that burden of proof, the propounding party must
establish facts that specifically support the reasons given in the declaration.”
(Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Discovery § 18.14.)
 
Here, the Court agrees with Moving Defendants
that “the conclusory assertion in Plaintiff’s declaration for additional
discovery that number of requests is warranted because of ‘the complexity and
the quantity of the existing and potential issues in this particular case’ does
not suffice because it does not articulate why the alleged complexity or
quantity of issues warrant the excessive number of special interrogatories.” (Def.’s
Reply 3:9–12.) Plaintiff merely argues that “pursuant to the Court’s ruling in Rifkind,
the subject written interrogatories are the more appropriate and expedient
method for Plaintiff to obtain information relating to those legal contentions
and defenses contained within Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint and
Defendant’s Answer to the Cross-complaint. Such responses will permit Plaintiff
and its counsel to take an informed and thorough deposition of Defendant in
order to obtain that information which is necessary for this matter to be tried
on its merits.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:12–17.)
 
In Rifkind v. Superior Court
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1255, the Court of Appeal held that deposition questions
may ask a deponent about the basis for, or information about, factual
conclusions or assertions, but not the basis for a legal conclusion. “If a
deponent says that a certain event happened at a particular time or place, it
is quite proper to ask the person, at deposition, how he or she became aware of
it, his or her knowledge about it, and for similar information of a factual
nature.” (Rifkind, 22 Cal.App.4th at 1259.) However, in contrast,
deposition questions that call for a witness’ legal contentions are improper
because “legal contention questions require the party interrogated to make a
‘law-to-fact application that is beyond the competence of most lay persons.’ …
Even if such questions may be characterized as not calling for a legal opinion
… or as presenting a mixed question of law and fact … their basic vice when
used at a deposition is that they are unfair. They call upon the deponent to sort
out the factual material in the case according to specific legal contentions,
and to do this by memory and on the spot. There is no legitimate reason to put
the deponent to that exercise. If the deposing party wants to know facts, it
can ask for facts; if it wants to know what the adverse party is contending, or
how it rationalizes the facts as supporting a contention, it may ask that
question in an interrogatory.” (Id. at 1262.)
 
Here, the Court notes that only
Special Interrogatory Nos. 72–82 ask for each Moving Defendant’s legal
contentions, which Rifkind limits to written interrogatories as opposed
to oral deposition questions. As to the remaining 71 interrogatories, Plaintiff
has not made a sufficient factual showing that the number of interrogatories is
warranted based on the complexity and/or quantity of the existing and potential
issues in the case. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.040, subd. (a)(1).) The Court also finds that as Plaintiff has not opted
to rely on any of the other reasons provided in the statute in her supporting
declaration, the Court disregards any additional argument to that extent. (Id.
at subds. (a)(2)–(3).) Based on the foregoing, the Court limits the number
of Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, to Special Interrogatory Nos.
72–82. The Court notes the parties’ arguments concerning the substance of the
subject interrogatories but declines to reach them in light of the foregoing,
and because these issues were not raised during the meet and confer process.
 
C.               
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order under this section, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2025.420,
subd. (h), 2030.090, subd. (d), 2031.060, subd. (h).) Additionally, “the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Moving Defendants request
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,519.56 per motion to be imposed on Plaintiff
and her counsel, totaling $3,039.12. This amount includes: (1) 9.1 hours of Moving
Defendants’ attorney’s time spent preparing the instant papers and appearing at
the hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate of $160.17 per hour; and (2) $61.65 in
filing fees per motion. (Eisaeian Decl. ¶¶
10–11.) The Court notes that these calculations yield a total of $3,038.39.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the
total amount of $1,500.00 to be imposed on each Moving Defendant and their
counsel, totaling $3,000.00, which encompasses (1) 5 hours of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s time preparing each opposition; and (2) 1 hour attending each
hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate of $250.00 per hour. (Decl. of Andrew J.
Lopez, ¶ 10.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that monetary
sanctions are not warranted in this instance because neither party was
completely successful in making or opposing the motion.
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted in part.
Moving Defendants to serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 72–82, within 30 days. The Court declines
imposing monetary sanctions against either party.