 Case Number:  23STCV14464    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ESTER MACHADO
  
        
  vs.
 
LA DOWNTOWN
  MEDICAL CENTER, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV14464 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 12, 2023



 
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is ordered stayed pending
the completion of arbitration.  
 
            On
6/21/2023, Plaintiff Ester Machado (Plaintiff) filed suit against L.A. Downtown
Medical Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) retaliation in violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5; (2) retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 6310;
and (3) unfair business practices. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint, and stay this
action pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
            
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
            Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that on 6/12/2019, Plaintiff executed LADMC’s
Agreement to be Bound by Alternative Dispute Resolution Policy. (Rodriguez,
Exh. A.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff disputes signing the Agreement and argues that Defendant
has presented insufficient evidence to show that the arbitration agreement is
between itself and Plaintiff. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds that the preponderance of evidence supports a finding
that Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a binding agreement to arbitrate for
the following reasons.
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that the signature is hers. While the other signatory on the
agreement is not expressly listed as Defendant, the signatory is listed as the
Facility Representative and the document presented was part of the onboarding
packet for Plaintiff’s employment at Defendant’s facility. The signatory is
Arlene Rodriguez who is a Human Resources Coordinator for Defendant. Ms.
Rodriguez submitted a declaration that she was responsible for explaining the
document to Plaintiff, and that the document was located in Plaintiff’s
employee personnel file. Taken together, there is no ambiguity that the
“Facility” in question was Defendant, and that it was the other party to the
Agreement.   
 
            Put
another way, while Plaintiff claims to have no memory of signing the document,
the document was located within her employee personnel file. There is also no
dispute that the document is part of a New Hire Packet, and that Plaintiff was
participating in employee onboarding at the time. Ms. Rodriguez, the other
signatory to the agreement, submitted a declaration stating that it is her
normal course of action is to explain the documents to the employees in person,
to give them time to review, and to allow them to ask questions. (Rodriguez
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Taken
together, the evidence indicates that an arbitration exists between Defendant
and Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s claims, which arise out of her employment, fall
within the scope of the agreement. 
 
Given that
Defendants have established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).
 
II.              
 Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
Given that
Defendant has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
The party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence
any defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at
p. 236.) Here, Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is invalid because it
is unconscionable.
 
“Unconscionability has both procedural
and substantive elements. Although both must appear for a court to invalidate a
contract or one of its individual terms, they need not be present in the same
degree: ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’”  (Roman
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469. (Roman).) Where the degree of procedural unconscionability is low,
“the agreement will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 (Ajamian).)
   
A.   
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because:
(1) Plaintiff was required to sign under pressure; and (2) Plaintiff could not
understand the agreement based on the formatting and language. 
 
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no
real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise involves the
extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’
drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1469.) 
 
As for the
first contention, Plaintiff herself argues that she does not remember signing
the agreement. As such, Plaintiff’s contention that she was required to quickly
sign the document under pressure carries less weight. Ms. Rodriguez submitted a
declaration that Plaintiff, like all new hires, was provided an opportunity to
review the document and ask questions before signing. While Plaintiff contends
that Defendant only allows employees to take a copy of the Agreement home if
they specifically request a copy, Plaintiff does not indicate that she ever
requested a copy or was prevented from requesting copy. Plaintiff also does not
explain how this would exert pressure over her to sign. Similarly, Plaintiff
states that Defendant does not make clear whether or not you had the option to
take the Agreement home before signing, but does not state she ever asked. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
argues that the pressure she faced was “acutely high” given that the contract
was one of adhesion, and cites OTO,
L.L.C., v. Kho (2019) 447 P.3d 680 in support. However, in Oto, the
court found evidence of “substantial oppression” where the plaintiff, who did
not speak English as a first language, was approached at his workstation by a
human resources “porter” three years after beginning his employment, and “asked
him to sign several documents. [Plaintiff] was required to sign them
immediately and returned them to the porter, who waited in the workstation.” (OTO, supra, 447 P.3d at p. 720.)
Moreover, the Court there noted that the economic pressure to accept an
arbitration to keep one’s job is far
greater than in a pre-employment context because “[e]mployees who have worked
in a job for a substantial length of time have likely come to rely on the
benefits of employment. For many, the sudden loss of a job may create major
disruptions, including abrupt income reduction and an unplanned reentry in to
the job market.” (Id. at p.
727.)  
 
            Here,
the arbitration agreement was presented in a pre-employment context, not as a
condition to keep one’s job, there is no evidence that Plaintiff cannot speak,
read, or understand English, and the preponderance of evidence suggests that
Plaintiff had an opportunity to review the agreement. 
 
            As
such, the fact that the employment contract here was one of adhesion evinces
only a low degree of procedural unconscionability. 
 
            As
for the second contention, the arbitration agreement is only a page long and is
legible and clear. Plaintiff did not submit any credible evidence to show that
she informed anyone she could not easily read the font, or asked for a larger
version. Plaintiff also did not submit credible evidence that she asked for
clarification on the meaning of the document before signing. 
 
In sum, the
Court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence shows only a degree of procedural
unconscionability.  As such, unless
Plaintiff can show a high level of substantive unconscionability, the agreement
will be enforced. 
 
B.   
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it is
unilateral.  
 
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results,’ that is, whether
contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively unreasonable or
unexpected manner.” (Roman, supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)
Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found
in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided,’ in
favor of the employer without sufficient justification. (Ibid.) Common examples of substantive unconscionability include
“when ‘the employee's claims against the employer, but not the employer's
claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration’” (ibid), or when employees are required to pay excessive fees to gain
access to the administrative forum. (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 90-91 (Armendariz).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is unilateral based on the third paragraph of
the Agreement which provides “I agree that in the event employment disputes
arise between my employer (herein referred to as the “Company”, on the one
hand, and me, on the other hand, I will be bound by the Company ADR Program,
which provides for final and binding arbitration.” Plaintiff argues that this
provides that only the employee is bound to arbitrate. However, in paragraph
six, the agreement expressly states (original emphasis): “…AND IN CONSIDERATION
FOR THE COMPANY’S RETURN AGREEMENT TO BE BOUND BY THE ADR PROGRAM….” As such,
contrary to Plaintiff’s contention, Defendant has expressly agreed to be bound
by the Company’s ADR Program.  
 
While
Plaintiff presented evidence of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff has not
presented any evidence of substantive unconscionability. As a result, the Court
finds that the arbitration agreement is enforceable as to all of Plaintiff’s
cause of action. (Ajamian, supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is granted, and this
action is ordered stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 