 Case Number:  23STCV14747    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
 



DIVYA GOWRI 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
GREENBERG GROSS,
  LLP, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV14747 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 12, 2023



 
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is ordered stayed pending
the completion of arbitration.  
 
            On
6/26/2023, in pro per Plaintiff Divya Gowri (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Greenberg Gross, LLP, Jeff Anderson & Associates, PA, Alan Greenberg,
Deborah S. Mallgrave, Jenna E. Dunn, Brian L. Williams, Bailee B. Pelham, and
Michael Reck (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) professional negligence;
(2) breach of contract; (3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
            Now,
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint, and stay this
action pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
            
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
            Here, Defendants submitted evidence
that Plaintiff signed a Lawyer-Client Contingent Fee Agreement
with Gowri (Engagement Agreement) that contains a binding arbitration
provision. (Mallgrave Decl., Exh. A.) The arbitration provision requires that
any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of, or relating to, the
Engagement Agreement, or the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation
or the validity of the Engagement Agreement, or relating otherwise to the
lawyers’ representation of Gowri, shall be determined through binding
arbitration to be administered by JAMS. The Engagement Agreement was signed by
Gowri, Greenberg Gross LLP and Jeff Anderson & Associates, PA. The
individual Greenberg Defendants – Alan Greenberg, Deborah S. Mallgrave, Jemma
E. Dunn, Brian L. Williams and Bailee B. Pelham – were all attorneys at
Greenberg Gross LLP during the representation of Gowri. Defendant Michael Reck
was an attorney at Jeff Anderson & Associates, PA during the representation
of Gowri.
 
            Plaintiff’s
claims fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement, given that they
arise out of allegations that Defendants’ performance of services breached the
standard of care, and breached the Engagement Agreement and their fiduciary
duties to her. 
 
Given that
Defendants have established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
            Plaintiff
did not oppose the motion and thus has not met her burden to show that the
arbitration agreement should not be enforced.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is granted, and this
action is ordered stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 