  Case Number:  22NWCV01016    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  F Kramer v. Martinez, et al., Case No. 22NWCV01016
 
This is about a partition action. Defendant Marcus Martinez moves to
continue trial. Trial is currently scheduled for August 5, 2024. 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that
although disfavored, the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which
includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses
due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of
a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from conducting
discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or
(4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case”
preventing it from being ready for trial. 
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the
trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of
time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance
requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
[¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons
for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to
avoid delay; [¶] (7)¿The court's calendar and the impact of granting a
continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
[¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by
the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶]
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the
motion or application.” (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 (c).) 
 
Defendant states that because Doreen M. Esparza has recently become
a doe defendant, Defendant will need more time to conduct discovery and prepare
evidence. Further, there are law and motion hearings scheduled for beyond the
trial date. 
 
Based on the above, the motion is granted. The trial is continued to
April 14, 2025. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 