 Case Number:  21SMCV00923    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Carol Steiner, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the Edward F. Hustedt and Eleanor Vallee Hustedt Trust dated October 20, 1991, also known as the Hustedt Inter Vivos Trust U/D/T 10/20/91, and of all Sub-Trusts thereunder’s Motion to Compel the Production of the Loan Center’s Records is GRANTED. Third party The Loan Center, Inc. shall produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena within twenty (20) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiff Carol Steiner, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the Edward F. Hustedt and Eleanor Vallee Hustedt Trust dated October 20, 1991, also known as the Hustedt Inter Vivos Trust U/D/T 10/20/91, and of all Sub-Trusts thereunder, to give notice. REASONINGA party may obtain discovery pursuant to a deposition subpoena that commands the production of business records for copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2020.010, subd. (a)(1), 2020.410.) If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena, the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition record. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subds. (a)-(b).) Where the deposition subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court may make an order directing compliance with the subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)Plaintiff Carol Steiner, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the Edward F. Hustedt and Eleanor Vallee Hustedt Trust dated October 20, 1991, also known as the Hustedt Inter Vivos Trust U/D/T 10/20/91, and of all Sub-Trusts thereunder (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling third party The Loan Center, Inc. to comply with and produce documents in response to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena to The Loan Center, Inc. seeking production of business records. In the Complaint, Plaintiff Plaintiff alleges that Eleanor Vallee Hustedt’s last husband, James Byron Clark, unlawfully slandered the real property located at 2136 Dean Circle and disposed of personal items located therein, and the defendants improperly issued a loan to Clark and allowed him to refinance the property and obtain a second loan. Based on these allegations, Plaintiff seeks documents from The Loan Center, Inc., including communications and financial records, demonstrating Patrick Nangle, owner of The Loan Center, Inc., brokered the subject loan while knowing Clark had no authority to do so.Plaintiff represents that The Loan Center, Inc. was served with the subject subpoena on August 31, 2023, and The Loan Center, Inc. has stated only that it lacks any records or that it does not understand the request. (Mot., David Decl. ¶¶ 2, 3, Exs. 1, 2.) The Court finds that there is good cause to order The Loan Center, Inc. to produce the requested discovery, as the documents sought are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, and the Court has no grounds to conclude that Plaintiff may access such information through any party to this action. Accordingly, Plaintiff Carol Steiner, individually, and as Successor Trustee of the Edward F. Hustedt and Eleanor Vallee Hustedt Trust dated October 20, 1991, also known as the Hustedt Inter Vivos Trust U/D/T 10/20/91, and of all Sub-Trusts thereunder’s Motion to Compel the Production of the Loan Center’s Records is GRANTED. Third party The Loan Center, Inc. shall produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (j), “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Because The Loan Center, Inc. has not opposed the present motion, monetary sanctions are not warranted, and Plaintiff’s request for the same is DENIED.