 Case Number:  19STCV44789    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



ROBERT YU, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
JACK FAULKNER, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV44789




Hearing Date:


October 4, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:

 
MOTION BY RAYMOND MUNRO FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
 
Background
On December 11, 2019, Plaintiffs Robert Yu and Minghui Huang (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against a number of defendants, including
Raymond Munro (“Munro”) and Henry Suarez (“Suarez”). Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on June 17, 2020, alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of written contract for sale of real property, (2)
violation of Civil Code sections 1102 et seq.,
(3) violation of Civil Code sections 2079 et seq.,
(4) negligence, (5) fraudulent concealment, (6) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8) violation of Civil Code sections 896 et seq., (9) breach of
third-party beneficiary contract, and (10) breach of fiduciary duties. 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he real property which is the
subject of this litigation is located at 3933 Barryknoll Drive, in the city of
Los Angeles, 90065-4305, County of Los Angeles” (the “Subject Property”). (FAC,
¶ 11.) On or about October 29, 2017, Plaintiffs and Suarez entered into a
written agreement by which Plaintiffs agreed to purchase and defendants agreed
to sell the Subject Property (the “Agreement”). (FAC, ¶ 18.) On or about
December 3, 2017, Plaintiffs and Suarez entered into an amendment of the
Agreement (the “Repair Agreement”). (FAC, ¶ 21.) In the Repair Agreement,
Suarez agreed to repair certain issues in the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[Suarez], [Munro], and
Does 1 through 50, and each of them, breached the contracts in that they failed
to perform their services in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with the
applicable building codes and the documents incorporated into the written
contracts, such as the plans and specifications for the Subject Property.”
(FAC, ¶ 102.) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that “Civil
Code Section 896 et seq. sets, defines, and imposes
standards with respect to residential construction and the functions
and components of structures, dwellings, buildings, and improvements
(the ‘Standards’).” (FAC, ¶ 97.) Plaintiffs allege that “[Suarez] and [Munro],
and each of them, are responsible for violating the Standards by virtue of
their respective involvements in the Subject Property and the defects and
deficiencies existing
therein
as a result of such involvements…” (FAC, ¶ 99.) 
On September 18, 2020, Suarez filed a Cross-Complaint against Munro
and Vista Enterprise, Inc., alleging causes of action for (1) negligence, (2)
comparative indemnity, (3) contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. 
Munro now moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint. Suarez joins in
the motion. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion
            Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), “[a] party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (b), “[a]ny other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c), “[a] party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.”
Munro asserts that it is in the interest of justice to permit Munro to
file his proposed Cross-Complaint. As an initial matter, Munro asserts that he
“is seeking to file a permissive Cross-Complaint against parties whose
identities have been identified in the proposed Cross-Complaint attached to
this motion. All parties have been aware of Munro’s intention to name these
parties as Cross-Defendants since June of 2023.” (Mot. at p. 3:20-22.) Munro
states that “[a]ttached to this motion as Exhibit 1 is the proposed
Cross-Complaint…” (Mot. at p. 4:20.) But as noted by Plaintiffs, no
Cross-Complaint is attached to the motion. Plaintiffs thus note that they are “left
to speculate the exact causes of action that will be pled, the cross-defendants
named, and basis thereof that Defendant is seeking leave.” (Opp’n at p.
8:21-23.) 
            The Court notes that Munro attached
a proposed Cross-Complaint to Munro’s reply in support of the motion. Munro
asserts that “[i]t is the same Proposed Cross-Complaint that
counsel for Munro provided to counsel for Plaintiffs when seeking a stipulation
in June. It is the same Proposed Cross-Complaint that was
provided to the court as part of Munro’s prior July 18th, 2023
motion to the court.” (Reply at p. 4:8-11.) However, as Munro’s proposed
Cross-Complaint was submitted with the reply, Plaintiffs have not had the
opportunity to respond to it. In order to provide Plaintiffs the
opportunity to respond to the proposed Cross-Complaint, the Court will continue
the hearing on the motion.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on
Munro’s motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint to November
3, 2023¿at 10:00
a.m. in Dept. 50.   
 By October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs may
file and serve a supplemental opposition to address the proposed
Cross-Complaint submitted in connection with Munro’s reply, with a courtesy
copy delivered to Dept. 50.
Munro is ordered to provide
notice of this ruling.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
DATED:  October 4, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 