


[1]As an initial
matter, Plaintiffs assert that Defendants’ opposition was untimely and should
be “denied.” The opposition was filed and served on September 21, 2023, 8 court days prior to the October 4, 2023 hearing
date. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1005, subdivision (b), opposition papers must be served and filed with the
court at least 9 court days before the hearing. Defendants’
counsel filed a supplemental declaration indicating that “Woolls Peer Dollinger
& Scher…uses ProLaw software to calculate and manage all litigation
deadlines. The hearing dates for all litigation matters handled at the firm are
inputted and Prolaw calculates the corresponding deadlines based on the
applicable court rules. In this case, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Tax Costs was set
for October 4, 2023 and this date was inputted into ProLaw; ProLaw calculated
September 21, 2023 as the opposition deadline.” (Suppl. Zapf Decl., ¶ 2.)
Defendants’ counsel asserts that “[s]ince reliance on this litigation software
was excusable neglect, I respectfully request the court consider Defendants’
Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion to Tax Costs, which was filed one day late.
Plaintiffs have not cited any prejudice to this late filing and were able to
timely file a reply brief in spite of the one-day delay.” (Suppl. Zapf Decl., ¶
7.) Because Plaintiffs have
submitted a substantive reply brief, the Court
elects to exercise its discretion to consider the untimely opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).)


[2]The Court notes
that on September 12, 2022, the Court issued an Order denying Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss Pursuant to CCP § 583.310. 


[3]The Court notes
that as set forth above, “[i]f the items appearing in a cost bill
appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to
show that they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the
items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof
is on the party claiming them as costs.” (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn., supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) 

