 Case Number:  22STCV39045    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



TAI SOON LEE,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MU YONG LEE, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV39045
  [r/w 22STCV39068
22STCV39070
22STCV39075
22STCV39078
22STCV39083
23STCV00050]




Hearing Date:


October 4, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT SUSAN LEE’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER (1) DECLARING PLAINTIFF
  TAI SOON LEE A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT, (2) REQUIRING PLAINTIFF TO POST SECURITY
  FOR COSTS, AND (3) PRECLUDING PLAINTIFF FROM FILING ANY NEW LAWSUIT WITHOUT
LEAVE OF COURT
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Tai Soon Lee,
in pro per, (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 16, 2022 against a
number of Defendants, including Susan Lee. Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on February 2, 2023, alleging causes of action for
(1) “set aside fraudulent transfer between Mu Yong Lee and Helen-Lee-Doulis
& Grace Lee,” (2) “deprivation of the Plaintiff’s 16th Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution: Federal Incomes [sic] Tax (1913)…” (3) physical and
mental abuse (cruelty), and (4) civil assault. 

As set forth in the July
25, 2023 minute order in this action, “[o]n March 17, 2023, Judge Terry Green issued an Order
relating cases 22STCV39045, 22STCV39068, 22STCV39070, 22STCV39075, 22STCV39078,
22STCV39083, and 23STCV00050.” 
Susan Lee now moves for
an order: (1) designating Plaintiff a vexatious litigant, (2) requiring
Plaintiff to furnish security in this action in the amount of $50,000, or
dismiss it, and (3) prohibiting Plaintiff from filing any new litigation in the
courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of the
presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where the litigation is
proposed to be filed. No opposition to the motion was filed. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Susan Lee’s request for judicial notice as to
paragraphs 1-7 of the request. 
The Court denies Susan Lee’s request for judicial notice as to
paragraphs 8-15. The Court notes that pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1306,
subdivision (c), “[a]
party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence
Code sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and each
party with a copy of the material. If the material is part of a file in the
court in which the matter is being heard, the party must: (1) Specify in writing the part of the court file sought to be
judicially noticed; and (2) Either make arrangements with
the clerk to have the file in the courtroom at the time of the hearing or
confirm with the clerk that the file is electronically accessible to the court.”
It does not appear that the case material referenced in paragraphs 8-15
are part of a file in the Court in which the instant action is being heard. 
The Court grants Susan Lee’s request for
judicial notice in paragraph 16 of the request only as to Exhibits 16 and 22.
The Court denies the request as to paragraphs 17 and 18. The Court does not
find that sufficient documentation has been provided as to the matters in these
paragraphs. As discussed, pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1306,
subdivision (c), “[a]
party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence
Code sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and each
party with a copy of the material.” 
 
Discussion 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that on September 1, 2023,
before the instant motion was filed, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as
to the “[e]ntire action of all parties and all causes of action.” (Plaintiff’s
September 1, 2023 Request for Dismissal, Item 1(b)(5).) Dismissal was entered
on September 5, 2023, and Susan Lee filed the instant motion on September 5,
2023. 
On September 27, 2023, Susan Lee filed a notice of non-receipt of
opposition to the instant motion, in which she asserts that Plaintiff’s request
for dismissal does not divest the
Court of jurisdiction to hear the instant motion. Susan Lee cites to Pittman v.
Beck Park Apartments Ltd. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1009, 1024-1025, where the Court of Appeal held as follows: 
 
“Like a motion
for attorney fees or sanctions, a motion to declare a self-represented
plaintiff a vexatious litigant deals with an ancillary issue and has no bearing
on the finality of the judgment or dismissal. Retaining jurisdiction to decide
a vexatious litigant motion is consistent with the purpose of the statutes,
which are designed to curb misuse of the court system by those persistent and
obsessive litigants who, repeatedly litigating the same issues through
groundless actions, waste the time and resources of the court system and other
litigants. A dismissal
does not rectify the harm already done by the filing of a groundless action.
Nor does the dismissal extinguish the court’s interest in deterring and
punishing the waste of judicial resources. A contrary rule would allow a
litigant to strategically escape a vexatious litigant finding altogether
by dismissing a party or an action prior to a ruling on the vexatious
litigant motion and then refiling his or her claims in a later proceeding. This
is precisely the tactic Pittman has engaged in here. To fulfill the statute’s
aim of protecting future potential litigants, the ability to declare an
individual a vexatious litigant must survive even after the action has been
dismissed.” (Internal quotations
and citations omitted.) 
Thus, based on the foregoing, the Court finds that it has jurisdiction to rule on the instant
motion.[1]

“Evidence that a litigant is a frequent plaintiff or
defendant alone is insufficient to support a vexatious litigant designation.
[A] person is not a vexatious litigant unless a court has found that he
comes within the definitions in [Code of Civil Procedure] section 391…” 
(Morton v. Wagner (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 963, 969 [internal quotations and citation omitted].)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391, subdivision (b), “Vexatious litigant” means a person who does any of the following:
 
“(1) In the
immediately preceding seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or
maintained in propria persona at least five litigations other than in a small
claims court that have been (i) finally determined adversely to the person or
(ii) unjustifiably permitted to remain pending at least two years without
having been brought to trial or hearing.
 
(2) After a
litigation has been finally determined against the person, repeatedly
relitigates or attempts to relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the
validity of the determination against the same defendant or defendants as to
whom the litigation was finally determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim,
controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by
the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined.
 
(3) In any
litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious
motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages
in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.
 
(4) Has previously
been declared to be a vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of
record in any action or proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar
facts, transaction, or occurrence.
 
(5) After being
restrained pursuant to a restraining order issued after a hearing pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of
Part 4 of Division 10 of the Family Code, and while the restraining order is
still in place, they commenced, prosecuted, or maintained one or more
litigations against a person protected by the restraining order in this or any
other court or jurisdiction that are determined to be meritless and caused the
person protected by the order to be harassed or intimidated.”  
“What constitutes ‘repeatedly’ and
‘unmeritorious’ under subdivision (b)(3), in any given case, is left to
the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Morton v. Wagner, supra,
156 Cal.App.4th at p. 971.) 
Susan Lee asserts that
Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant. First, Susan Lee asserts that Plaintiff
“repeatedly litigates or attempts to relitigate claims, controversies, and
issues of fact or law concluded by the final determination against Defendant in
the EARO Petition.” (Mot. at p. 13:10-12.) 
Susan Lee’s counsel’s
declaration in support of the motion provides that “Plaintiff is the estranged spouse of
co-defendant Mu Yong Lee. In July 2022, Mu Yong
Lee filed a petition for legal separation from Plaintiff, which is pending
under case number 22STFL07291…” (Schneider
Decl., ¶ 2.) Susan Lee’s
counsel states that “[o]n or
about November 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed Petitions for Elder Adult Abuse Restraining Orders (‘EARO’ Petitions’) against Defendant and each
of the other co-defendants in this action except Mu Yong Lee. A hearing on the
EARO Petitions took place on December 5, 2022. Two of the EARO
Petitions (against Adam Streets and Grace Lee) were
dismissed without prejudice because of Plaintiff’s failure to serve these
defendants. The other four EARO Petitions (against
Defendant SUSAN LEE, Helen Lee-Doulis, Mable Lee,
and Christopher Grigg) were decided on the merits in favor of the Defendants
and against Plaintiff.” (Schneider Decl., ¶
3.) 
Susan Lee cites to a copy of the “transcript of the hearing
on the EARO Petitions,” which is dated December 5,
2022. (Schneider Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 5.) Susan Lee
cites to the following determination from the Court set forth in the
transcript: “BASED ON ALL THE EVIDENCE I HAVE
BEFORE ME I’M NOT ABLE TO FIND THAT THE
PETITIONER’S MET HER BURDEN TO PROVE ANY OF
THESE CASES BY A PREPONDERANCE OF THE
EVIDENCE THAT THESE FOUR FAMILY MEMBERS HAVE PHYSICALLY
ABUSED HER, NEGLECTED HER, ISOLATED HER, ABANDONED
HER, ABDUCTED HER OR SOME OTHER BEHAVIOR THAT
CAUSED PHYSICAL HARM, PAIN OR MENTAL SUFFERING OR FINANCIAL ABUSE. SO AT THIS TIME ALL FOUR OF YOUR RESTRAINING ORDERS ARE DENIED.” (Schneider Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. 5, p. 52.) Susan Lee asserts that “[t]he law of Issue preclusion
prevents Plaintiff from relitigating the issue of abuse against Defendant or
the co-defendants who prevailed against Plaintiff in the EARO Petitions.” (Mot.
at p. 13:18-20.) The Court notes that in the FAC in the instant action,
Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for “physical and mental abuse (cruelty) by
Mu Yong Lee, Helen-Lee-Doulis, Grace Lee, Mable Lee, Susan Lee, & Two
Son-in Laws; Chriss Grigg, & Adams Streets.”  
The Court also notes
that the foregoing argument appears to pertain to the definition of “vexatious litigant” set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 391,
subdivision (b)(2).
However, Susan Lee moves for an order “[d]esignating Plaintiff TAI SOON LEE…a vexatious litigant (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc.§ 391(b)(3))…” (Mot. at p. 2:6-7, emphasis added.) 
Susan Lee also asserts
that Plaintiff has engaged in a number of vexatious tactics. As set forth
above, Code of Civil Procedure section 391,
subdivision (b)(3)
provides that a “[v]exatious litigant” means a person who “[i]n any
litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious
motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages
in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.”
Susan Lee’s
counsel states that “[d]espite
admonishing Plaintiff that Jonathan D. Chang, Plaintiff’s purported ‘attorney-in-fact,’ was not licensed to practice law in the State of
California, on March 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a ‘NOTICE of
Jonathan D. Chang as Plaintiff’s attorney-in-fact,’ in which there is an admission that Mr. Chang ‘is not a lawyer’ but
nevertheless ‘has prepared for [sic] all legal documents
in connection with the lawsuit.’” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 16.) Susan Lee’s
counsel attaches to her declaration a copy of the results of an “Attorney
Search” for “Jonathan D. Chang” from the website of the State Bar of
California, which “returned no results.”
(Schneider Decl., ¶ 27, Ex. 22.) 
Susan Lee also
states that “[o]n
December 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a procedurally defective notice of related case, relating this case only to the FL Proceeding. On January
11, 2023, the court issued a minute order citing the
numerous deficiencies in Plaintiff’s filing.” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 7.)
The Court’s January 11, 2023 minute order in this action provides, inter
alia, that “Plaintiff did not file the Notice in the family law
action as required. The proof of service attached to the Notice filed in civil
law case 22STCV39045 is blank and Plaintiff did not file a separate proof of
service. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
3.300(d), ‘[t]he Notice of Related Case must be filed in all pending cases
listed in the notice and must be served on all parties in those cases.’ There
is no evidence that Plaintiff served counsel for Mu Yong Lee in the family law
action. To satisfy due process, all parties in all listed actions must be
served with the Notice.” (Ibid.) 
Susan Lee’s
counsel also states that she sent a letter to Plaintiff noting that Plaintiff “failed to file a notice of change of address in one of the Related Cases, creating
administrative burden.” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 10.) 
Susan Lee also asserts
that “Plaintiff served, and/or unsuccessfully attempted to file, multiple
versions of Second Amended Complaints without leave of Court and after
Defendant and her co-defendants advised they would not stipulate to permit
their filing.” (Mot. at p. 8:9-11.) Susan Lee’s counsel indicates that “[o]n
February 24, 2023, Ms. Smith’s office received a facsimile from Plaintiff,
consisting of a ‘stipulation and order’ for filing of a second amended
complaint under the case caption for 22STCV39083 only…” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 11;
emphasis omitted.) On March 6, 2023, Susan Lee’s counsel wrote to Plaintiff,
noting, inter alia, that Defendant would not stipulate to the proposed
amendment. (Schneider Decl., ¶ 13.) Susan Lee’s counsel asserts that “[d]espite
knowing that she required an order granting leave to file a second amended
complaint, and despite Defendant’s refusal to stipulate to the filing of a
defective second amended complaint, Plaintiff served Defendant (and most but
not all of the co- defendants) with two documents purporting to be ‘second
amended complaints’ in each of the Related Cases (even though Case No.
23STCV00050 does not have a ‘First Amended Complaint’) and a notice of same
filed in the FL Proceeding.” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 14.) Susan Lee’s counsel
states that “[o]n or about March 16, 2023, our office determined through the LA
Court Attorney Portal that the court had rejected Plaintiff’s attempt to file a
second amended complaint…because leave of court was necessary.” (Schneider Decl.,
¶ 16.) 
Susan Lee’s counsel also
indicates that “[i]n the operative pleading in this case (First Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 67-68), and in each of the other Related Cases, Plaintiff
continues to pursue claims for damages relating to personal property which she
claims Defendants are wrongfully withholding from her, despite the fact that
she has instructed Defendants to discard the items. A true and correct
copy of a letter dated April 9, 2023 from Plaintiff to me, instructing that she
does not want the personal property items mentioned as elements of damage in
her operative complaint, is attached as Exhibit 23 and incorporated by
reference. While Plaintiff has filed a motion for leave to file a second
amended complaint in this case, the proposed second amended complaint still
alleges that Defendants harmed her by taking her personal belongings (proposed
Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 67-69).” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 21, emphasis
omitted.) 
Susan Lee also indicates
that on May 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request in this action for a court
order that she undergo an ‘independent medical examination,’ under the
purported authority of Code of Civil Procedure sections
2032.210-2032.260. (Schneider Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. 20.) Susan Lee asserts that
“[t]hese sections do not authorize a medical examination of the plaintiff
requested by a plaintiff, but only a medical examination of a plaintiff
requested by a defendant. This motion is not supported by any evidence.” (Mot. at p. 11:3-6.) Indeed, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220,
subdivision (a), “[i]n any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” 
Susan Lee also
asserts that “[o]n
May 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a nearly 600 page request for judicial notice for no apparent reason, seeking judicial notice of several items which
do not fall within any recognized category for taking judicial
notice…” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 24.) The Court notes that the request for judicial
notice filed by Plaintiff on May 31, 2023 in this action does not appear to indicate
that it is filed in support of any motion or other filing. 
Susan Lee also indicates
that on June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a document captioned “Plaintiff Tai Soon
Lee’s Request for a Court-Appointed Attorney (Sixth Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution) or ‘Temporary Relief.’” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 26, Ex. 21.) The Sixth
Amendment to the United States Constitution provides that “[i]n all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed,
which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be
informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the
witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in
his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.” (U.S. Const., 6th Amend.) As noted by Susan Lee, the
instant case is a civil action, not a criminal action. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Susan Lee has demonstrated that Plaintiff “repeatedly files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other
papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd.
(b)(3).) Moreover, as set forth above, no opposition to the
instant motion was filed. Thus, Plaintiff does not dispute Susan Lee’s
assertion that Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant. 
Susan Lee also moves for an
order “[r]equiring
Plaintiff to furnish security in this action in the amount of $50,000, or dismiss it.” (Mot. at p.
2:8-9.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391.1,
subdivision (a), “[i]n any litigation pending in any court of
this state, at any time until final judgment is entered, a defendant may move
the court, upon notice and hearing, for an order requiring the plaintiff to
furnish security or for an order dismissing the litigation pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 391.3. The motion
for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security shall be based upon
the ground, and supported by a showing, that the plaintiff is a vexatious
litigant and that there is not a reasonable probability that they will prevail
in the litigation against the moving defendant.” The Court notes that Susan Lee’s motion does not appear
to contain a discussion as to whether there is a reasonable probability that
Plaintiff will prevail in the instant action. Moreover, as set forth above,
Plaintiff already filed a request for dismissal of this action, which was
entered on September 5, 2023. Thus, Susan Lee’s request that the Court require
Plaintiff to furnish
security in this action in the amount of $50,000,
or dismiss it, is denied. 
Lastly, Susan Lee moves for
an order “[p]rohibiting
Plaintiff from filing any new litigation in the courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of the
presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where the
litigation is proposed to be filed.” (Mot. at p. 2:10-12.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391.7,
subdivision (a), “[i]n addition to any other relief provided in
this title, the court may, on its own motion or the motion of any party, enter
a prefiling order which prohibits a vexatious litigant from filing any new
litigation in the courts of this state in propria persona without first
obtaining leave of the presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where
the litigation is proposed to be filed. Disobedience of the order by a
vexatious litigant may be punished as a contempt of court.” Susan
Lee asserts that “[u]nder the circumstances, issuance of a prefiling order is
necessary and appropriate.” 
As set forth above, the
Court finds that
Susan Lee has demonstrated that Plaintiff “repeatedly files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other
papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391, subd.
(b)(3).) Thus, the Court grants Susan Lee’s unopposed request for a
prefiling order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 391.7, subdivision (a). 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Susan Lee’s motion is granted in part
and denied in part. The Court grants Susan Lee’s motion to designate Plaintiff
a vexatious litigant under Code of Civil Procedure
section 391, subdivision (b)(3), and for a “prefiling order which
prohibits a vexatious litigant from filing any new litigation in the courts of
this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of the presiding
justice or presiding judge of the court where the litigation is proposed to be
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7, subd. (a).) Susan Lee’s
motion is otherwise denied.  
Susan Lee is ordered to provide
notice of this ruling. 
DATED:  October 4, 2023                                                                              
________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


