 Case Number:  22STCV22737    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



PUNK ME TENDER,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ONESSIMO FINE ART, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV22737




Hearing Date:


October 4, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANTS DEBRA ONESSIMO FINE ARTS, INC. AND
  DEBRA ONESSIMO’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
  JURISDICTION
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Punk Me Tender (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 14,
2022 against Defendants Onessimo Fine Art and Debra Onessimo. The Complaint
asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of implied contract, (4)
professional negligence, (5) unjust enrichment, (6) conversion, (7) fraudulent
misrepresentation, and (8) unfair competition. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that in or around October 2021,
defendants entered talks with Plaintiff regarding an agreement whereby Onessimo
Fine Art would exhibit and sell Plaintiff’s artworks at art fairs in the Miami
area and at Onessimo Fine Art. (Compl., ¶ 9.) On or around November 2, 2021,
and at defendants’ request, Plaintiff sent defendants a consignment agreement
consistent with the parties’ discussions (the “Agreement”), and on or around
November 2, 2021, defendants objectively communicated their acceptance of the
Agreement, indicating their intent to be bound by its terms. (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
The Complaint alleges that per the terms of the Agreement, Plaintiff
granted Onessimo Fine Art the exclusive right to sell and exhibit certain
pieces from Plaintiff’s art collection (the “First Collection”) for a period of
not more than three months. (Compl., ¶ 10.) On or around November 22, 2022,
Plaintiff and defendant agreed to consign additional pieces owned by Plaintiff
to defendant (the “Second Collection”). (Compl., ¶ 17.) On March 15, 2022,
Plaintiff requested that defendants return the First Collection and Second
Collection. (Compl., ¶ 21.) On or around March 24, 2022, Plaintiff was made
aware that piece #312 from the Second Collection was irreparably damaged.
(Compl., ¶ 22.) In April of 2022, defendants shipped some of Plaintiff’s works
back to Plaintiff, and on or around April 26, 2022, Plaintiff received the
shipment. (Compl., ¶¶ 23-24.) Upon inspection of the artwork, Plaintiff found
that certain pieces from the collections were damaged. (Compl., ¶ 24.) In
addition, certain items were missing. (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiff alleges that defendants breached the Agreement by, inter
alia, (i) failing to return to Plaintiff possession of the First Collection
by February 10, 2022, (ii) failing to return to Plaintiff possession of the missing
artworks within 30 days of April 4, 2020, (ii) failing to return to Plaintiff
possession of the missing artworks at any date to present, (iii) failing to
provide a certificate of insurance to Plaintiff, (iv) failing to insure the collections,
(v) failing to compensate Plaintiff the net artist’s price of each of the damaged
and missing artworks, (vi) failing to pay Plaintiff the net artist’s price
within 10 days of the sale of pieces #130 and #313, and (vii) failing to
compensate Plaintiff the net artist’s price for pieces #130 and #313, which defendants
purported to have sold. (Compl., ¶ 34.)  
On August 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed proofs of service indicating that
Onessimo Fine Art was served with the summons and Complaint on July 27, 2022 by
personal service, and that Debra Onessimo was served with the summons and
Complaint on July 30, 2022 by personal service. 
Specially appearing
defendants Debra Onessimo Fine Arts, Inc. dba Onessimo Fine Art (“Onessimo Fine Art”) and Debra Onessimo
(jointly, “Defendants”) move for an order quashing the purported service of
summons on them and dismissing the claims against them for lack of personal
jurisdiction. Plaintiff opposes. 
On May 17, 2023, the
Court issued an Order continuing the hearing on the instant motion to September
18, 2023 to allow Plaintiff
to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.[1]
The Court’s May 17, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff
may conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues only. Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition to the
instant motion and Defendants may file a supplemental reply. Any supplemental opposition and
reply papers must be filed and served per Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) based on the new hearing date.” (Order at p. 11:17-20.) 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a supplemental opposition to Defendants’ motion to quash service of
summons. On September 11, 2023, Defendants filed a supplemental reply in
support of the motion. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled
Objection No. 5: overruled
Objection No. 6: overruled
Discussion
Code
of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion … (1) To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).) 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the
state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal
due process.” (Young v.
Daimler AG (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Due
process permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who
have “minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of
jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)
“Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) “A
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) A nonresident may be subject to
specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully
availed itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related
to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering
the defendant’s contacts with the state and other factors, California’s
exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and
substantial justice.” (Gilmore Bank
v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568 (emphasis in original) [internal citations omitted].)
“When a defendant moves to quash service of
process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of
demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it
becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 449 [internal
citations omitted].)
            As set forth in the Court’s May 17,
2023 Order, Defendants assert that neither
Onessimo Fine Art nor Debra Onessimo has sufficient contacts with California to
support general jurisdiction. Defendants provide evidence that Debra Onessimo
Fine Arts, Inc. does business under the name Onessimo Fine Art. (Onessimo
Decl., ¶ 3.) Debra Onessimo Fine Arts, Inc. was incorporated in the State of
Florida in 2001, and its principal place of business has always been in
Florida. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 3; see also Compl., ¶ 2 [alleging that
Onessimo Fine Art has “its principal place of business in the County of Palm
Beach, State of Florida”].) Debra Onessimo Fine Arts, Inc. has never had any
offices or employees in the State of California, nor does it own any property
in the State of California. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 3.) In addition, Onessimo Fine Art’s
business with Plaintiff was conducted entirely in the State of Florida.
(Onessimo Decl., ¶ 8.) 
            Defendants also provide evidence
that Debra Onessimo has never
been a resident of the State of California and has never owned any real
property in California. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 4.) Debra Onessimo does no business
in the State of California, and she has never had any offices or employees in
the State of California. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 4.) The last time Debra Onessimo was
physically in the State of California was years before Debra Onessimo Fine
Arts, Inc. began displaying Plaintiff’s artwork. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute Defendants’ assertion that
they are not subject to general jurisdiction in California. (See Opp’n
at p. 6:19-21, “Defendants persuasively argue that neither the Gallery
nor Ms. Onessimo have sufficient contacts with California to subject them to
the general jurisdiction of California courts.”) 
            However,
Plaintiff asserts that California courts have personal jurisdiction over
Defendants because they consented to California law and entered into a
transaction with Plaintiff in excess of $250,000.00. Plaintiff also makes this
argument in its supplemental opposition to the instant motion. Civil Code section 1646.5 provides, inter alia, that “[n]otwithstanding Section 1646, the parties to any contract, agreement,
or undertaking, contingent or otherwise, relating to a transaction involving in
the aggregate not less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000),
including a transaction otherwise covered by subdivision (a) of Section 1301 of the Commercial Code, may agree that
the law of this state shall govern their rights and duties in whole or in part,
whether or not the contract, agreement, or undertaking or transaction bears a
reasonable relation to this state.”[2]

            The
Court’s May 17, 2023 Order on the instant motion provides, inter alia,
that “[a]s Defendants note, Plaintiff cites to allegations of the Complaint in
support of the assertion that Civil Code section 1646.5 applies here. Plaintiff
has not proffered any evidence of a contract with a California choice-of-law
clause.” (Order at p. 6:13-15.) In the supplemental opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that “[t]he Gallery’s discovery responses are admissions by Ms.
Onessimo that the Gallery entered into the Second Consignment Agreement, which
covered artwork valued at $858,000.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 5:12-14, emphasis
omitted.)[3]
Plaintiff’s counsel provides a copy of Onessimo Fine Art’s responses to Plaintiff’s first set of special
interrogatories in connection with the supplemental opposition. (Greene Decl.,
¶ 3, Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatory No. 9 provides, “IDENTIFY any contractual agreement YOU
entered into with any California-based artist or entity in the last five (5) years.” (Greene Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p.
10.) Onessimo Fine Art’s response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 9
provides, inter alia, “[s]ubject to and without waiving the foregoing
general and specific objections, Debra Onessimo Fine Arts, Inc. (dba Onessimo
Fine Art) responds as follows, as it understands the Interrogatory: Artwork
Consignment Agreement with Punk Me Tender LLC, dated December 4, 2021 as ‘Effective
Date.’ Contract with Punk Me Tender LLC re Context Miami Fair December 2021.” (Ibid.)
However, as noted by Defendants in the supplemental reply, Plaintiff still has
not proffered any evidence of a contract signed by anyone with a California
choice-of-law clause.
            In
addition, Plaintiff does not appear to provide any evidence in support of the
assertion that the “Second Consignment Agreement…covered artwork valued
at $858,000.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 5:13-14.) Plaintiff also asserts that “the
Defendant conceded the value of the missing and damaged art by providing a
claim form for claims totaling $309,979.00, providing an alternative basis to
establish California jurisdiction over these Defendants per § 1646.5.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 5:16-19.) But Plaintiff
cites paragraph 26 of the Complaint in support of this assertion. (See
Suppl. Opp’n at p. 5:19.)[4] 
As set forth in the Court’s May 17, 2023 Order on the instant motion,
“[o]n a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff
has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual
bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward
with affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot
simply rely on allegations in an unverified complaint. If the plaintiff meets
this burden, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 209-210 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
In addition, Defendants note that Plaintiff does not cite to any legal authority to
support the proposition that a California choice-of-law provision alone confers personal jurisdiction. As
discussed in the May 17, 2023 Order, Defendants cite to Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 481-482, where the United States Supreme Court
noted that “[t]he Court in Hanson and subsequent cases has emphasized that choice-of-law analysis – which focuses on all elements of a transaction, and not
simply on the defendant’s conduct – is distinct from minimum-contacts
jurisdictional analysis – which focuses at the threshold solely on the
defendant’s purposeful connection to the forum. Nothing in our cases,
however, suggests that a choice-of-law provision should be ignored in considering whether a defendant has
purposefully invoked the benefits and protections of a State’s laws for
jurisdictional purposes. Although such a provision
standing alone would be insufficient to confer jurisdiction, we believe that, when combined with the 20-year interdependent
relationship [the defendant] established with [plaintiff’s] Miami
headquarters, it reinforced his deliberate affiliation with the forum State and
the reasonable foreseeability of possible litigation there.” (Internal quotations omitted, italics in original,
underline added.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court still does
not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the Court has personal
jurisdiction over Defendants pursuant to Civil Code
section 1646.5. 
            As discussed in the May 17, 2023
Order, Defendants also assert in the motion that neither Onessimo Fine Art nor Debra Onessimo
has purposefully availed themselves of the benefits of California to support
specific jurisdiction. As set forth above, a nonresident may be subject
to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First, the defendant
must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the
controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with
the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the state and other
factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant must comport
with fair play and substantial justice.”
(Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 (emphasis in
original) [internal citations omitted].)
            In the opposition and supplemental
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants are subject to the Court’s
specific jurisdiction. In the supplemental opposition, Plaintiff asserts that
Onessimo Fine Art purposefully directed its activities at the
State of California and purposefully availed itself of the privileges of
conducting activities within California by “[e]ntering into a contractual and
business relationship with a California company, promoting and selling the
artwork of a California-based artist,” and by “[c]onsenting to the application
of California law in the First Consignment Agreement by paying for piece #130.”
(Suppl. Opp’n at p. 6:17-20.) But Plaintiff again points to allegations of the
Complaint in support of this assertion, specifically paragraphs 9 and 14 of the
Complaint. (See Suppl. Opp’n at p. 6:18; p. 6, fn.5.) As discussed in
the Court’s May 17, 2023 Order and as set forth above, “[o]n a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion
to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.” (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at pp. 209-210
[internal citation omitted].)
            Plaintiff also asserts
that Onessimo Fine Art purposefully
directed its activities at the State of California and purposefully availed
itself of the privileges of conducting activities within California by
“[c]onsenting to the application of California law in the Second Consignment
Agreement.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 6:21-22.) Plaintiff cites to “Onessimo Fine
Art’s Responses to Special Interrogatories” in support of this assertion.
(Suppl. Opp’n at p. 6, fn. 6.) As set forth above, Onessimo Fine Art’s response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No.
9 identifies an “Artwork
Consignment Agreement with Punk Me Tender LLC, dated December 4, 2021 as ‘Effective
Date,” and a “Contract with Punk Me Tender LLC re Context Miami Fair December
2021.” (Greene Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) However, as discussed, Plaintiff has not presented any evidence
of a contract containing a California choice-of-law clause. 
             Plaintiff
also cites the Declaration of Debra
Onessimo filed in support of Defendants’ instant motion to quash. Plaintiff
cites to paragraph 7 of Debra Onessimo’s declaration, which provides, inter
alia, that “Onessimo Fine Art ultimately agreed to sell Punk Me Tender’s
artwork at Onessimo Fine Art’s galleries in Florida. I negotiated this
agreement with Punk Me Tender on behalf of Onessimo Fine Art from Florida.”
(Onessimo Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff also notes that Exhibit 1 to the
Declaration of Debra Onessimo is
an invoice from Plaintiff with the address “1716 N. Cahuenga Blvd Studio A Los
Angeles, CA 90028” on the header of the invoice. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 1.)

            Defendants counter
that “the
mere fact that a Florida defendant entered
into a contract with a California plaintiff ‘does not automatically establish purposeful
availment’ in California.” (Suppl. Reply at p. 6:24-26.) As discussed in the Court’s May 17,
2023 Order, and as Defendants note in the supplemental reply, “[a] contract with an out-of-state party
does not automatically establish purposeful availment in the other party’s home
forum.” (Goehring v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 894, 907.) “Rather, a court must evaluate the
contract terms and the surrounding circumstances to determine whether the
defendant purposefully established minimum contacts within the forum.” (Ibid.) 
            As discussed, Onessimo Fine Art’s response to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 9 identifies an “Artwork Consignment Agreement with Punk
Me Tender LLC, dated December 4, 2021 as ‘Effective Date,” and a “Contract with
Punk Me Tender LLC re Context Miami Fair December 2021.” (Greene Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. A, p. 10.) However, no evidence of the contract terms was provided by
Plaintiff. In addition, Plaintiff does not appear to provide evidence of any
other factors purportedly establishing purposeful availment other than the fact that Onessimo Fine Art entered into the
foregoing agreements with Plaintiff.  (Greene Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 10.)
            As also discussed in
the May 17, 2023 Order, Defendants cite to Interdyne
Co. v. SYS Computer Corp. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 508, 509,
where the “Plaintiff appeal[ed]…from an order granting the motion of defendant,
a foreign corporation, to quash the service of summons on that defendant.” The
Court of Appeal affirmed the order. (Ibid.) The Interdyne Court noted that “[w]hen a California business seeks out
purchasers in other states -- purchasers who are not present in California for
general purposes -- deals with them only by out-of-state agents or by
interstate mail and telephone, it is not entitled to force the customer to come
to California to defend an action on the contract. The arm of section 410.10 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
not long enough to reach buyers who have only such minimal contact with
California.” (Id.
at pp. 511-512 [internal
quotations omitted].) In Interdyne, “[t]he
relations between the parties began in 1969, when, in New Jersey, K & J
Associates, an authorized sales representative for plaintiff, solicited an
order from defendant.” (Id. at pp. 509-510.)
“Plaintiff [was] a California corporation, with its principal place of business
in Los Angeles County. Defendant [was] a New York corporation, with its
principal place of business in New Jersey.” (Id.
at p. 509.) “[A]part from the contracts with
plaintiff, defendant had no California contacts.” (Id. at p. 510.) 
            Defendants assert that
similarly here,
Plaintiff’s representative Marion Doyen contacted Onessimo Fine Art about the
possibility of displaying and selling Plaintiff’s artwork at Onessimo Fine
Art’s galleries in Florida, and that neither Debra Onessimo nor Onessimo Fine
Art sought out the business relationship with Plaintiff. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 5.)

            In addition,
Defendants indicate that no representative of Onessimo Fine Art ever traveled
to California in connection with its business with Plaintiff. (Onessimo Decl.,
¶ 7.) Rather, Plaintiff’s principal (the artist) traveled to Florida to work in
a booth that Onessimo Fine Art “jointly paid for” at “CONTEXT Art Miami” in
2021. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendants cite to Floyd J. Harkness Co. v. Amezcua (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 687, 691-692, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n examining the quality and
nature of the activities in this state, it is settled that we are not concerned
with the performance of the plaintiff in California but exclusively with the
nonresident defendant’s activities in this state. It is the latter activities
which must provide the basis for jurisdiction. It follows that
the fact that the plaintiff advanced money from California, a fact upon which
plaintiff places heavy reliance, is virtually eliminated as a factor to be
weighed herein.” (Internal citations omitted.)

            Defendants also assert that Plaintiff’s theory for personal
jurisdiction in California over Debra Onessimo is even more strained,
as Plaintiff’s purported agreements were with Onessimo Fine Art, not with Debra
Onessimo personally. (Onessimo Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendants note that “[t]he requirements of International Shoe…must be met as to each
defendant over whom a state court exercises jurisdiction.” (Rush v. Savchuk (1980) 444 U.S. 320, 332.)
As noted by Defendants, “Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Opposition does not…do a separate legal analysis as to Ms.
Onessimo.” (Suppl. Reply at p. 10:8.) 
            Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that
Defendants here “purposefully
availed [themselves]
of the state’s benefits.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New
Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568, emphasis
omitted.) Accordingly, the Court need not and does not address Plaintiff’s
arguments in the supplemental opposition pertaining to the second element of
the three-prong test. (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd.,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568, “[i]f general jurisdiction is not established, a nonresident
defendant may still be subject to California’s specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met…First, the
defendant must have purposefully
availed itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must
be related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts
with the state…Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the state and
other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant must
comport with fair play and substantial
justice.
[internal emphasis omitted].)  
            Lastly,
Plaintiff asserts that “the proposed alternative of applying California-law in
a Florida Court is impractical and unreasonable.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 7:13-14.)
Plaintiff cites to Integral Development. Corp. v. Weissenbach (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
576, 591, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[o]nce a plaintiff has shown the requisite minimum
contacts to support jurisdiction, the burden shifts to defendant to show
jurisdiction is not reasonable.” But here,
Plaintiff has not shown the requisite minimum contacts
to support jurisdiction. In addition, such analysis would pertain to any
argument by Defendants that jurisdiction is not reasonable in California. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion is
granted.
Defendants
are ordered to provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 4, 2023                                                                              
________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


