 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s Motion
for Leave to Amend Operative Complaint; Defendants’ Demurrers and Motions to
Strike
Leave to Amend
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves for leave to file a second amended complaint.  Courts have discretion to permit an amendment
to any pleading “in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Courts exercise their discretion “liberally
to permit amendment,” and “[t]he policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
Defendants argue plaintiff’s proposed
amendment would be futile based on the merits of plaintiff’s claims.  In
ruling on a motion for leave to amend, courts generally do not consider the
amended pleading’s merits.  (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 760.)  
Defendants QTC
Management, Inc., Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc., Janett Fairchild, and
Marcella Aiken also argue plaintiff unreasonably delayed seeking to amend the
complaint.  Generally, courts have discretion to
deny leave to amend when (a) the moving party has delayed bringing the proposed
amendment; and (b) the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the
opposing parties.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  
Defendants do not show any prejudice that
warrants denying this motion.  Plaintiff
filed her initial complaint on October 4, 2023. 
No trial date has been set.  Any
delay was minimal and did not prejudice defendants.  All proposed amendments arise from the same
general set of facts and circumstances as plaintiff’s operative first amended
complaint.
Demurrers & Motions to Strike
            Three groups
of defendants filed demurrers and motions to strike portions of plaintiff’s
first amended complaint.  Plaintiff moved
for leave to file a second amended complaint soon after defendants demurred.  In the interest of judicial economy, the
court will permit plaintiff to file a second amended complaint.  Defendants’ demurrers and motions to strike
portions of the first amended complaint are moot. 
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan’s motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the
second amended complaint forthwith. 