 Case Number:  23STLC01829    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
City of Hawthorne’s Special Motion to Strike 
Defendant
City of Hawthorne moves to strike plaintiff Barry Rosen’s complaint under Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Defendant makes 22 pages of
unnumbered objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
Regarding motions for summary judgment, California Rules of Court, rule
3.1354(b) requires that “[e]ach written
objection must be numbered consecutively.” 
Though this rule does not apply to anti-SLAPP motions, consecutively
numbering objections—especially voluminous objections—is necessary for the
court to make clear rulings on them.  All
of defendant’s objections are overruled.
Public
Interest Exemption
Plaintiff
relies on the public interest exemption in Code of Civil Procedure section
425.17(b):
“Section 425.16
does not apply to any action brought solely in the public interest or on behalf
of the general public if all of the following conditions exist: 
(1) The
plaintiff does not seek any relief greater than or different from the relief
sought for the general public or a class of which the plaintiff is a member. A
claim for attorney’s fees, costs, or penalties does not constitute greater or
different relief for purposes of this subdivision.
(2) The
action, if successful, would enforce an important right affecting the public
interest, and would confer a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or
nonpecuniary, on the general public or a large class of persons.
(3) Private
enforcement is necessary and places a disproportionate financial burden on the
plaintiff in relation to the plaintiff’s stake in the matter.”
Courts
address the exemption before undertaking the usual analysis under the
anti-SLAPP statute.  (Exline v.
Gillmor (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 129, 138.) 
(Exline v. Gillmor (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 129, 138.)  This provision is narrowly construed, and the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving it applies.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
does not meet his burden.  This is not an
action brought solely in the public interest or on behalf of the general
public.  “Use of the term ‘solely’
expressly conveys the Legislative intent that section 425.17(b) not apply to an
action that seeks a more narrow advantage for a particular plaintiff.  Such an action would not be brought ‘solely’
in the public’s interest.  The statutory
language of 425.17(b) is unambiguous and bars a litigant seeking ‘any’ personal
relief from relying on the section 425.17(b) exception.”  (Club Members for an Honest Election v.
Sierra Club (2008) 45 Cal.4th 309, 316–317.)  
Plaintiff’s
complaint seeks declaratory relief regarding, among other things, his rights “under
a written instrument” (CCP § 1060): a “notice of traffic violation bearing
citation number 215975HA (‘Instrument’ or ‘Citation’)” for allegedly running a
red light.  (Comp., ¶ A.)  The complaint’s prayer for relief begins:
“WHEREFORE,
Plaintiff prays:
A. That a
determination be made of the rights and duties of the Rosen and the City concerning
the Instrument, as to be set out in the proposed judgment to be lodged and/or
as the Court deems just and proper;
B. That the
determination be that the Instrument is invalid, Rosen owes nothing to the City,
the City cannot press the citation under the Instrument on Rosen, and that the
ATES at the Location is unauthorized and unlawful, as to be set out in the
proposed judgment to be lodged concurrently and/or as the Court deems just and
proper.” 
(Comp., p. 15.)
Plaintiff thus specifically
prays for personal relief that benefits him alone: that he “owes nothing to the
City” and “the City cannot” enforce its citation against him.  This complaint therefore is not brought solely
in the public interest or on behalf of the general public.  The exception under section 425.17 does not
apply.  
Legal Standard
for Anti-SLAPP Motion
            Courts use a two-step
process for resolving anti-SLAPP motions under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16: “First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.”  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 (Navellier).)  The defendant
must show “the cause of action is based on the defendant’s protected free
speech or petitioning activity.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Second, once the defendant establishes the
first element, courts “must then determine whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.”  (Navellier,
29 Cal.4th at p. 88.)  “[T]he plaintiff
need only have stated and substantiated a legally sufficient claim.”  (Ibid.,
internal quotes and citations omitted.) 
“[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.”  (Id. at p. 94.)  “Put another way, the plaintiff ‘must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ”  (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
1. Protected
Activity
Defendant only meets
its burden of showing some of plaintiff’s action arises from protected
activity.  “[T]he moving defendant bears
the burden of identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims
for relief supported by them.  When
relief is sought based on allegations of both protected and unprotected
activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 396 (Baral).)  Protected
activity includes any statement or writing “made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law” (CCP § 425.16(e)(1)) or “made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law” (id., subd. (e)(2)).  
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges one cause of action for declaratory relief against defendant.  The complaint begins, “This Verified
Complaint seeks declaratory relief on the ground that Defendant is not compliant
with the prerequisites of California Vehicle Code §§ 21455.5, 21455.7 to
operate its Automated Traffic Enforcement Systems (‘ATES’) capturing vehicles
on the Westbound Left Turn at the intersection of Rosecrans and Hindry (‘Location’)
and is precluded from issuing traffic citations related thereto to anyone
including to Plaintiff.”  (Id., p.
2.)  Plaintiff alleges the City’s ATES
does not comply with the law for four reasons: (1) the yellow light does not
last long enough (¶¶ H, 9(i)); (2) the City did not provide the required 30-day
warning period (¶¶ J, 9(ii)); (3) the City did not adequately control and
supervise the ATES (¶¶ K, L, 9(iii)); and (4) the City’s contract with Redflex
regarding ATES violates the cost-neutrality provision of Vehicle Code section
21455.5(h) (¶¶ M, 9(iv)). 
Rather than
specifically identifying allegations of protected activity, defendant argues the
entire action arises from its protected activity of collecting and providing
evidence of plaintiff’s traffic violation. 
Defendant’s argument conflates plaintiff’s allegations about how
defendant purportedly violated the law in general with plaintiff’s allegation
that his traffic citation was illegal and invalid.  “ ‘That a cause of action arguably may have been triggered by protected
activity does not entail that it is one arising from such.’ ”  (USA Waste of California, Inc. v. City of
Irwindale (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 53, 62.) 

Plaintiff’s
action seeks a declaration that the City has violated the Vehicle Code in the
four ways described above.  Plaintiff
alleges, for example, that the City’s contract with Redflex violates the
cost-neutrality requirement.   That does not arise from protected
activity.  A contract with an ATES
supplier is not a statement or writing made before or in connection with an
official proceeding.  Plaintiff further
alleges the yellow light at the subject intersection does not last long
enough.  The duration of a yellow traffic
signal is not a statement or writing or any other form of communicative conduct.  It is not merely incidental to litigation or
an official proceeding.  A traffic
light’s chief purpose is to direct traffic, not to provide evidence of traffic violations.
  
Gotterba
v. Travolta (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 35 is analogous.  There, the defendant’s
anti-SLAPP motion argued the plaintiff’s “declaratory relief lawsuit arises
from the protected petitioning activity of prelitigation demand letters.”  (Id. at p. 40.)  The court held the plaintiff’s “complaint is
not based upon [defendant’s] sabre-rattling demand letters.  The complaint seeks declaratory relief
regarding the validity of the asserted termination agreements and not the
propriety of [the] demand letters.”  (Id.
at p. 41.)  “In deciding whether a
lawsuit is a SLAPP action, the trial court must distinguish between speech or
petitioning activity that is mere evidence related to liability, and
liability that is based on speech or petitioning activity.”  (Id. at p. 42.)
Here,
plaintiff does not solely allege the City violated the law by issuing him a
traffic citation.  He alleges the traffic
citation is invalid because the City violated the law in several ways
regarding establishing and maintaining the ATES and in setting the duration of
the yellow light.  The traffic citation itself is protected
activity.  But, assuming plaintiff’s
allegations are true, the City violated the Vehicle Code before it cited
plaintiff and continues to violate the Vehicle Code regardless of that citation.  The court therefore reaches the second step
of the anti-SLAPP analysis solely with respect to allegations that the City
violated the law by issuing a citation to plaintiff. 
2. Probability
of Prevailing
Plaintiff does
not meet his burden of showing minimal merit to his claims for relief arising
from the City’s protected activity of issuing him a traffic citation.  “If the court determines that relief is
sought based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the
second step is reached.  There, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged claim based
on protected activity is legally sufficient and factually substantiated.”  (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 396.)  
Plaintiff fails
to meet this burden for two reasons. 
First, his traffic citation is not a proper subject for declaratory
relief, which is his sole cause of action. 
Declaratory relief “operates prospectively” and is not proper “where
there is an accrued cause of action for an actual breach of contract or other
wrongful act.”  (Baldwin v. Marina City Properties, Inc. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 393,
407.)  “[D]eclaratory relief operates
prospectively only, rather than to redress past wrongs.”  (Gafcon, Inc. v. Ponsor & Associates
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1404.)
Defendant issued
the citation to plaintiff in 2022. 
(Comp., ¶ A.)  Any controversy is
not prospective.  There is already an
ongoing traffic proceeding against plaintiff. 
As the opposition argues, “The citation proceeding independently moves
forward apart from [this] complaint.” 
(Opp., p. 13.)  That proceeding is
the only means for plaintiff to fight his traffic citation.  This court cannot issue a judicial
declaration effectively stating plaintiff is innocent in a separate
quasi-criminal proceeding.  (See Yount
v. City of Sacramento (2008) 43 Cal.4th 885, 893 [“civil tort actions are
not appropriate vehicles for challenging the validity of outstanding criminal
judgments”] People v. $6,500 U.S. Currency (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1548 [“ ‘If a judgment, no matter how erroneous, is within the jurisdiction of
the court, it can only be reviewed and corrected by one of the established
methods of direct attack’ ”].)
Second, assuming
the City violated the law as plaintiff alleges, that would not mean his
citation is invalid.  “[F]ailure to
comply with the 30-day period of issuing warning notices before using a red
light camera to issue citations is not a jurisdictional precondition to
enforcement of the red light traffic law.” 
(People v. Rekte (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1237, 1243.)  Nor does violation of the Vehicle Code’s
cost-neutrality provision invalidate a citation.  (People v. Daugherty (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 6-9.)  “[T]he
proper consequence” of such a violation “is to preclude the People from relying
on the Vehicle Code section 1553 presumption of accuracy and to instead shift
the burden to the People to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the
[ATES] photographs are accurate representations.”  (Id. at pp. 8-9.)  Plaintiff does not provide evidence of any
unlawful conduct by the City that would invalidate his traffic citation.
Attorney Fees
            Defendant
moves for $5,500 in attorney fees for this motion.  “[A] prevailing defendant on a special motion
to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and
costs.”  (CCP § 425.16(c)(1).)  A defendant
who achieves “partial success” is only “entitled to recover attorney fees and
costs incurred in moving to strike the claims on which they prevailed.”  (ComputerXpress, Inc. v. Jackson (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1020.)  
            Defendant
moved to strike the entire complaint.  It
only succeeded in striking limited portions of it.  This victory is substantial enough to make
defendant the prevailing party entitled to recover expenses.  After carefully reviewing defendant’s papers
and evidence, the court finds awarding all $5,500 in fees is appropriate.  All of defendant’s arguments and evidence
apply broadly to plaintiff’s entire action. 
Defendant would have reasonably incurred the same amount in attorney
fees to file an anti-SLAPP motion limited to targeting the allegations the
court now strikes.  The court therefore
will award defendant all $5,500 in attorney fees it claims.    
Leave
to Amend
            Plaintiff argues he should be
permitted to file a first amended complaint. 
“When a cause of action is dismissed pursuant to section 425.16, the
plaintiff has no right to amend the claim.” 
(Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1293.)  There is limited authority that courts may
allow a plaintiff to amend the complaint, but doing so “effectively denie[s]”
the anti-SLAPP motion.  (Nguyen-Lam v.
Cao (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 858, 865; Dickinson v. Cosby (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 655, 676, fn. 8.)  
The
court denies defendant’s motion in part. 
Plaintiff may not amend the complaint to restate any allegations the
court strikes in partially granting the motion. 
Plaintiff may, however, file a noticed motion for leave to amend the
complaint to add other allegations.  
Disposition
Defendant
City of Hawthorne’s special motion to strike is granted in part.  The court hereby strikes the following
portions of plaintiff Barry Rosen’s complaint without leave to amend:
(1) “is precluded from
issuing traffic citations related thereto to anyone including to Plaintiff”
(page 2, lines 5-6);
(2) “The Instrument
citing Rosen for violation does not meet the underlying requirements of Section
21455.5 and renders not only the Instrument invalid but” (¶ N, page 9, lines
9-11);
(3) “the Instrument is
unauthorized and unlawful because” (¶ P, page 9, line 18);
(4) “Rosen is asking
the City to refrain enforcement of the Instrument until trial on this Verified
Complaint” (¶ R, page 9, lines 26-27);
(5) “The written
instrument appears to be without statutory support because unabated it is
presumed valid and compliant and a determination under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1060 is required to either confirm compliance under Section 21455.5 or
determine non-compliance.  The Court is
also asked to decide the respective rights and duties of the Instrument as the
statutory writing as applied to law writing [sic] because a decision in favor
of Rosen would essentially render all citations as unauthorized and
unlawful.”  (¶ 8, page 12, lines 5-10);
(6) “In filing this
Verified Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1060, Rosen
desires a declaration with respect to the Instrument along with his rights and
duties with respect to the City along with the corresponding rights and duties
of the City with respect to Rosen” (¶ 9, page 12, lines 19-22);
(7) “the Instrument
does not comply with Section 21455.5 and” (¶ 9, page 12, lines 22-23);
(8) “Rosen, as the
motorist, cited by Redflex on behalf of the City for the violation of running a
redlight when the City” (¶ 10, page 14, lines 18-19);
(9) “of the Rosen’s
[sic] rights with respect to the validity of the Instrument imposed by the City”
(¶ 10, page 14, lines 20-21);
(10) “Instrument and”
(¶ 10, page 14, line 21);
(11) “relieve Rosen
from all obligations under the Instrument and purported citation for running a
redlight captured and” (¶ 10, page 14, lines 27-28);
(12) all of prayer,
paragraph A (page 15, lines 7-9); and
(13) “that the
Instrument is invalid, Rosen owes nothing to the City, the City cannot press
the citation under the Instrument on Rosen, and” (prayer, ¶ B, page 15, lines
11-12).
Plaintiff
may file a noticed motion for leave to amend only to add new allegations consistent
with this order.
Defendant
City of Hawthorne shall recover $5,500 in attorney fees from plaintiff Barry
Rosen.  