 Case Number:  22STCV31501    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DIANA LANDS NATHANSON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALEXANDER GERVASI,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV31501
 
[REVISED TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 16, 2024



 
On October 6, 2023, Defendant
Alexander Gervasi aka Sacha Gervasi filed a motion to compel further responses from
Plaintiff Diana Lands Nathanson for various items in Request For Production, Set
One and Request For Production, Set Two.
A.        Defendant Must Pay One Additional Filing
Fee.
Defendant’s
single motion seeks to compel production pursuant to two different sets of RFPs.  Each category of discovery should have been filed
as a separate motion, with separate filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being scheduled as only one motion and
one hearing, the total substance is that of two motions.  This unfairly allows the parties to take only
one hearing reservation each (instead of two) and results in an inaccurate projection
and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing both the Court and other
litigants.
Both
parties are ordered not to do this again and are warned that continued action of
this type may result in monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
177.5. For any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion
for each discovery request, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being
improperly filed.
Defendant
is ORDERED to pay one additional filing fee within 10 days.
B.        Defendant Did Not Comply With This Department’s
Procedures.
For
a motion to compel further, the moving party must meet and confer with the opposing
party and file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of
outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow
the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the Court’s website, www.lacourt.org) and file a joint statement.  Defendant did not comply with these requirements.
If
any party continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may
strike the filings or impose monetary sanctions.
C.        Defendant Did Not Meaningfully Meet and
Confer.
A
motion to compel further deposition testimony must include a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2025.480, subd.
(b).)
On
or around August 29, 2023, Defendant’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel, but they were unable to resolve RFP Nos. 24 and 25.  (Elsea Decl. ¶ 16.)  They also discussed RFP No. 26.  (Elsea Decl. ¶ 16.)  That is the extent of Defendant’s counsel’s declaration.  These efforts are not “a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion” before
filing the motion on October 6, 2023.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
Plaintiff
adds additional insight about the insufficient meet-and-confer attempt.  On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to supplement
RFP Nos. 10, 21, and 22.  (Henderson Decl.
¶ 8 & Ex. A.)
In
reply, Defendant’s counsel declares that “[t]o the best of [his] recollection,”
he also spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel about RFP No. 24 “at least once” between
September 21, 2023 and October 6, 2023.  (Elsea
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 4.)
When
Defendant filed this motion, he originally sought to compel further responses to
RFP Nos. 10, 21, 22, 24, 25, and 26.  But
before filing the motion, the parties had seemingly resolved—or at least were in
the process of resolving—every item at issue. 
The parties had already extended the statutory filing deadline to October
6, 2023.  (Motion at p. 5, fn. 1; Elsea Decl.,
Ex. 1.)  There is no information about discussions
for further extensions, which would be reasonable, if not expected, given the progress
made on supplemental production.  Yet despite
Plaintiff’s supplemental production, Defendant’s motion still seeks to compel further
responses to all six RFPs.
In
the Opposition and Reply, both parties agree that only RFP No. 24 remains in dispute.  Had there truly been “a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040), this motion would
be significantly limited, saving time and other resources for both counsel and the
Court.
D.        Plaintiff Must Produce the Requested Documents.
RFP
No. 24 requests “All of YOUR primary care MEDICAL RECORDS from July 9, 2019 through
the present.”
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has put her medical and mental care at issue (Motion at p.
7.)  Plaintiff alleges that she “suffered
constant distress and anxiety, she was unable to sleep normally, and the situation
was affecting her health.”  (Complaint ¶ 29.)  She “suffered bodily injuries, severe emotional
and mental distress and anguish.”  (Complaint
¶ 34; see Complaint ¶¶ 30, 52.)  In interrogatories,
Plaintiff explained multiple examples of this harm.  (Elsea Decl., Ex.  4 at pp. 5-6.)
Defendant’s
psychological
expert stated that Plaintiff told him that she suffered anxiety, physical feelings
of agitation or jitteriness, and social withdrawal.  (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 10)  Because the American Psychiatric Association’s
DSM-5-TR diagnostic criteria for Generalized Anxiety Disorder includes the need
to rule-out the effects of another medical condition, Dr. Rosenberg concluded that
primary care medical records are appropriate and informative to the assessment.  (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 11.)
Dr.
Rosenberg also stated the potential importance of primary care records as a source
of information about whether Plaintiff “has reported her allegations or emotional-injury
claims in this matter to her physician, or has asked for assistance with mental
health care, such as medication or a referral for psychotherapy.”  (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy as it
relates to her alleged harms.  (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)
In
reply, Defendant rejects Plaintiff’s proposal that she redact the records because
she and her counsel “lack the expertise to make clinical etiological determinations”
and “cannot be expected to, for example, determine whether a particular prescription
or over-the-counter drug causes headaches or insomnia—both of which she currently
complains of.”  (Reply at p. 3.)  This point is well-taken, especially because the
Protective Order in this case gives Plaintiff “the right to designate as ‘Highly
Confidential’ [her] medical or psychological records, and/or testimony regarding
such records.”
The
motion is granted for RFP No. 24.
E.        Conclusion
The
motion to compel further responses to RFP No. 24 is GRANTED.  Plaintiff must produce the requested documents
within 30 days.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s
opposition to this motion was not a misuse of the discovery process, and it was
not “lies, ad hominem attacks, and actual perjury.”  (Reply at p. 6.)  As discussed, the Court agreed with Plaintiff’s
contention that “Counsel for Gervasi did not meet and confer in good faith prior
to filing the motion.”  (Reply at p. 6; Henderson
Decl. ¶ 19.)  The Court also declines to act
on a sanctions request made only in the Reply. 
(Reply at pp. 6-7.)  
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 