 Case Number:  24STLC04372    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  26 Terry
v. Trophy Universal City Nissan, et al.TENTATIVE RULING:
Defendant Trophy Universal City Group, LLC dba Universal
City Nissan’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
ANALYSIS: 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff Melyssa
Terry (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendant Trophy Universal City Group, LLC dba Universal City Nissan (erroneously
sued as Trophy Universal City Nissan) (“Defendant”). On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint but named Defendant as “Trophy Automotive
Dealer Group, LLC.”
Defendant filed the instant
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint on October 30, 2024. No opposition has
been filed to date.
Discussion
Defendant demurs on the grounds
that the First Amended Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action, uncertainty, and failure to allege whether the contract is
written, oral, or implied. (Notice of Demurrer, p. 1:5-23 [citing Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f), (g)].) Special demurrers,
however, are not permitted in a limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) Therefore, the Court will not consider the Demurrer
for uncertainty or for failure to allege whether the contract is written, oral,
or implied. The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Chapman Decl.,
¶¶5-8 and Exh. A.)
The Courts finds that the First
Amended Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
The pleading is set forth on Judicial Council Form PLD-C-001 and indicates that
Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for breach of contract. (FAC, ¶8.) However,
beyond the name of the cause of action, no supporting factual allegations that
must be included are attached. (Ibid.) As there are no factual
allegations included with the pleading, it fails to state any cause of action.
Nor has Plaintiff filed any opposition demonstrating what facts can be alleged
to state a cause of action against Defendant. Therefore, the Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend.
Conclusion
Defendant Trophy Universal City Group, LLC dba Universal
City Nissan’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Moving party to give notice.