 Case Number:  24STLC07066    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  26 Huntington5207, LLC v. Chen et al.TENTATIVE
RULING:
Defendant Hui Ying Chen’s Motion for Leave to Amend
Admissions; Request for Relief from Waiver of Objections; and Request for
Relief from Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. DEFENDANT IS TO SERVE AMENDED
RESPONSES TO THE REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
ANALYSIS:
On November 2,
2023, Plaintiff Huntington2507, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for breach
of lease agreement and fraud against Defendants Hui Ying Chen (“Defendant
Chen”) and Peggy Ly Chienh (“Defendant Chienh”).
Defendant Chen filed an answer on December 5, 2023. On April 9, 2024,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted
and Request for Monetary Sanctions against Defendant Chen. (Minute Order,
04/09/24.)
Defendant
filed the instant Motion for Leave to Amend Admissions; Request for Relief from
Waiver of Objections; and Request for Relief from Monetary Sanctions on August
8, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 19, 2024 and Defendant
replied on September 30, 2024. Defendant filed supplemental documents on
September 30, 2024 and October 2, 2024. At the time of the hearing on October
3, 2024, however, the documents filed just the day before were not available
for the Court’s review. Accordingly, the hearing was continued to December 4,
2024.
Evidentiary
Objections
The court rules on Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections as follows:• Chen declaration: Nos. 1-3, 5-7 overruled; No. 4 sustained• Liu declaration: Nos. 1-3 sustainedDiscussion
Defendant moves for an
order allowing them to amend their admissions pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.300, subdivision (a). Such an order may only be made “only
if [the Court] determines that the admission was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the
admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (b).) Defendant
also moves for relief from their waiver of objections to the requests for
admissions, which is also based on a showing of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).To demonstrate that Defendant’s
failure to respond to the requests for admissions was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, Defendant submits their own declaration,
explaining numerous difficulties: After moving out of their apartment, Defendant
set up a mail forwarding service but did not realize it excluded certified mail
and packages. (Motion, Chen Decl., ¶3 and Exh. 2.) As a result, Defendant did
not receive the meet and confer letter from Plaintiff’s counsel, or the motion
to deem requests for admission admitted. (Ibid.) The request for
admissions was also missing the document that Defendant was asked to admit as
genuine. (Ibid.) Defendant is an indigent who was granted political
asylum in the United States in 2019 and struggled to find an attorney to
represent her in this action for eight months. (Id. at ¶¶2, 4.) Plaintiff
paid for an attorney referral service called “AAA Legal” and was directed to a
purported attorney named “Jack Z.” who “assisted” with the requests for
admission by essentially telling Plaintiff to ignore the requests and prepare
for trial. (Id. at ¶4.)
In opposition, Plaintiff submits the declaration of the
person from AAA Legal, Inc., Jacky Zhu, who disputes ever advising Defendant to
ignore the discovery. (Opp., Zhu Decl., ¶¶5-7.) Zhu goes on to declare that
they did not give Plaintiff legal advice at any point and attaches a copy of
what appears to be their text conversation. (Id. at Exh. A.) The text
conversation, dated December 3-4, 2023, makes it clear that Zhu did not refer
to himself as an attorney at that time. (Ibid.) However, Defendant’s
reply declaration states that Defendant and Zhu had numerous conversations and
meetings, during which they were led to believe Zhu was an attorney. (Reply,
Chen Decl., ¶3.) Ultimately, this is a matter of contradictory declarations. The
Court finds Defendant has sufficiently shown they struggled significantly to
obtain legal counsel and were mistaken in believing no response to the
discovery was necessary, such that the admissions
were the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
Defendant also
points out that Plaintiff will not be substantially prejudiced by an amendment
to the admissions given that there is still plenty of time until trial to
conduct discovery. Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the question of
prejudice. Therefore, Defendant has demonstrated that the Court may make an
order allowing them to amend the admissions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.300 and for relief from Defendant’s waiver of objection under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280. Additionally, Defendant has served
Plaintiff with proposed responses to the requests for admission, as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280. (Motion, Exh. B.)
Finally, Defendant
moves for relief from the award of sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), which also may be granted on the basis
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. For the reasons stated above,
the sanctions award is hereby vacated.
Conclusion
Defendant Hui Ying Chen’s Motion for Leave to Amend
Admissions; Request for Relief from Waiver of Objections; and Request for
Relief from Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. DEFENDANT IS TO SERVE AMENDED
RESPONSES TO THE REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
Moving party to give
notice.