 Case Number:  23SMCV04372    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel a production by the LAPD.  The underlying alleged facts are these.  On August 21, 2022, a car arrived at a
store.  People exited the car and walked
to the entrance with a gun.  Shots were
fired and the people from the car fled. 
There were two victims, one of whom died.  While there has been an arrest, at least one
suspect remains at large.  The decedent’s
representative has sued the property owner and the tenant who ran the store.  The owner issued a subpoena to the LAPD for
certain records.  On the LAPD’s behalf,
the City Attorney responded with a letter stating that certain documents would
not be produced in light of the official records privilege in Evidence Code
section 1040 subdivision (b).  Further,
the City Attorney stated that there is an ongoing criminal matter.  The owner is willing to enter into a
protective order, but the LAPD has stated that doing so is not enough.  Redacted documents have been produced, but
the moving party contends that they are insufficient and incomplete.  The owner has moved to compel further
production.  The LAPD opposes, but has
offered to allow the court to conduct an in camera review of the
materials at issue. 
 
The official records privilege is conditional, and it
applies to information acquired in confidence by a public employee.  Where the disclosure of that information is
against public interest because of a more compelling concern than the
litigation, the privilege is upheld.  The
court must weigh the public’s interest against the litigant’s interest in
resolving that issue.  The law allows the
court, in its discretion, to review the material in camera or to hold a
full adversary hearing.
 
The court here notes that there is an ongoing investigation
and criminal proceeding here.  And the
crime is no less than murder.  Anything
that would jeopardize the criminal matter or apprehending the remaining
perpetrator would be against the public interest and far outweigh the moving
party’s rights.  The court can, and if
necessary would, ensure that the instant case is scheduled in a way to
eliminate that risk and potentially later obtain the information if that is
possible to mitigate any harm to the defendant in this case, but ensuring a
full and fair trial in the murder case and apprehending the suspect at large
will easily be the weightier factor.
 
The moving party suggests that the shooting occurred almost
two years ago, so anything that would be produced will almost certainly be
stale.  Given that, the moving party
argues, the need for confidentiality is not all that weighty and can be
protected through the confidentiality order to ensure no widespread
release.  In opposition, the detective
investigating the incident has stated that full disclosure could gravely impair
the investigation and prosecution. 
According to the detective’s declaration, the information sought
includes personal identifying information and sensitive subject matter in the
file, and that is especially concerning because a suspect is at large.
 
The court does not believe that the detective’s declaration
is enough standing alone to warrant an outright denial of the motion.  The declaration is too vague.  But of course, that is somewhat to be
expected.  Providing a detailed statement
in the declaration could itself cause significant damage to the case and
investigation by disclosing the very information that the LAPD contends must be
kept confidential.  Accordingly, while
the declaration is vague, the court does not find that to be a fatal flaw.  Rather, the court believes that the better
course is to allow an in camera review of the material that was
redacted.  The court will look at the
material and, with the detective’s input, determine whether any material can be
produced, any material can be produced but subject to a protective order, or
any material should be withheld.  In
making that determination, the court is aware that the owner is unlikely
deliberately to do anything that would jeopardize the investigation or case,
but the court is also aware that accidents happen, and sometimes through no
fault of anyone.  The consequences of a
mistake could be significant, and that bears weight.  The court is also prepared to make whatever
other orders it can to mitigate any harm that non-disclosure might otherwise
have.  For example, what is sensitive now
might not be sensitive later, such as after the criminal matter is resolved.  And it may be that lesser redactions will
mitigate any potential harm.  The court
will have a better idea after reviewing the material.
 
The court will discuss a hearing date with the LAPD’s
counsel.  The date must work for counsel
and the detective.  The court will then
either rule from chambers or set an additional hearing date to hear argument,
recalling, of course, that the court cannot disclose what the court sees in the
in camera review.
 