 Case Number:  19SMCV00671    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further.  Plaintiff sued defendant for various
construction-related problems.  Defendant
served special interrogatories going to the defects and damages.  Plaintiff responded to some of them by
referring to a three page chart.  To
others, plaintiff responded that the chart was created by Greg Wade, and that
plaintiff therefore does not have actual knowledge as to how it was created or
the documents that support the various entries, and that the information is
equally available to the defendant by deposing Wade.  Wade’s deposition is apparently on the
calendar.  Defendant argues that
plaintiff cannot plead ignorance of the underlying facts, nor can plaintiff refer
to a cryptic chart in response to an interrogatory asking to identify facts and
documents.  Specifically, defendant notes
that 2030.230 allows a party responding to an interrogatory to avoid making a
compilation or chart based on underlying documents where the same documents are
equally available.  This is sort of the
opposite.  Plaintiff made a chart and is
claiming that the defense can figure out the underlying documents.  Wade is a contractor plaintiff hired to
perform remedial work on the property; Wade has not (to the court’s
understanding) been retained as a consulting expert.  
  
With regard to what the parties have called “Category 1,”
the court tends to believe that the concept of a chart is fine, but more is
needed.  Plaintiff can answer the
interrogatory by way of a summary or chart, but the chart must set forth the
specific documents upon which it is based, and this one does not.  Defendant is right that it ought not be
required to fish through the discovery documents provided to figure out how the
chart was created.
 
Category 2 is where the plaintiff has answered the
interrogatory by stating that it generally does not know the answer—Wade
does.  Section 2030.220 requires that a
responding party must make a good faith and diligent effort to obtain the
information; it is not enough to say that the responding party itself lacks
actual knowledge.  Where Wade has that
knowledge, plaintiff needs to get the information and knowledge from Wade, or at
least try.  It is not “equally available”
on the theory that Wade can be deposed. 
That much ought to be self-evident.
 
The bottom line is that the responses are not sufficient or
code compliant and the question is not really a close one.  The court is inclined to GRANT the motion and
require supplemental verified responses to be served without objection within
30 days.  The Wade deposition can be
continued to allow defendant time to receive and digest the responses.  Because the responses are pretty plainly not
consistent with the code or even arguably so, the court believes that sanctions
are appropriate in the amount of $2280, payable by plaintiff but not counsel
within 30 days.
 
All of that said, plaintiff’s view is that it is far more
efficient to depose Wade and ask him to provide all of this information.  That might be the case.  It might be that defendant would be willing
to allow the Wade deposition to go forward and see if that in fact resolves
this dispute.  If so, then the motion can
be continued for now and later withdrawn as moot.  If more is needed, at least the “more” might
be narrowed and can be pursued at that time. 
The court notes, though, that such a plan will almost certainly require
Wade to be deposed twice—once to get this information and a second time to
examine him about the information after the defense has had a chance to digest
the source material.  Plaintiff ought to think
about whether that makes any sense. 
There is also the question of whether defendant ought to bear the cost
of two depositions where that need is based on plaintiff’s convenience.  The court will not order that procedure, but
merely throws it out there for the parties to consider.  Unless defendant agrees to that procedure,
the order above will be the order of the court.