  Case Number:  22AHCV00541    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SARA D. YOUNG, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MEDMEN
   ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00541
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   17, 2024




 


 


 



 
Allen
 Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP seeks to be relieved as
counsel of record for defendant MM Enterprises USA, LLC (“Defendant”) on
grounds that there has been an irreconcilable breakdown in the
 attorney-client relationship, and ethical and professional considerations and
 obligations justify a termination of the relationship. Absent a
showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be
granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
The Court notes that no prejudice will
result from granting this motion because judgment has already been entered. However,
the motions do not specify whether defense counsel has been able to confirm
that 8740 S. Sepulveda Boulevard, Suite 105, Los Angeles, CA 90045 is Defendant’s
“current” address or “last known” address because the declarations of counsel
and the proposed orders are inconsistent. Counsel declares that they have been
able to confirm that the address is current but the proposed order states that
the address is Defendant’s “last known” address. Whether the address is
“current” or “last known” affects the method by which Defendant is to be served
in the future and when counsel will be relieved. 
Accordingly, the hearing on the motion to
be relieved is CONTINUED to May 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the
Alhambra Courthouse. The revised proposed order should be filed no less than 5
days before the hearing. Item 3b of the revised proposed order should be
checked. If the address provided is Defendant’s “current” address, then Item 5a
should be checked. If the address is “last known”, then Item 5b should be
checked and state the hearing date. The Court additionally notes that the
proposed order should include all future proceedings, including the hearings
currently scheduled for May 2 and 3, 2024. 
If any of these issues apply to the two
other motions to be relieved on calendar for May 2 and 3, 2024, counsel should
endeavor to file proposed orders ahead of those hearing so that no further
continuances will be needed. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 17th
day of April, 2024  
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 