 Case Number:  20STCV39795    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  28  Having considered the moving
papers, the Court rules as follows.        
BACKGROUND 
On
October 16, 2020, Plaintiff Hongde Cui (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Ting Kwan Chan (“Chan”), Daniel Yanez (“Yanez”), and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
February 3, 2022, Chan filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Yanez and Roes 1-10 for implied indemnity, total indemnity,
declaratory relief and apportionment of fault. 
On
March 7, 2022, Yanez filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Chan and Roes 1-25 for indemnity, apportionment of fault and
declaratory relief. 
On
July 17, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
On
February 15, 2024, Yanez filed an answer to Chan’s cross-complaint. 
On
February 20, 2024, Chan filed an answer to Yanez’s cross-complaint. 
On
April 17, 2024, the Court granted Chan’s unopposed motion to advance the trial
date or, in the alternative, dismiss for failure to prosecute. The Court
dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint against Chan with prejudice for failure to
prosecute. 
On
June 5, 2024, Yanez filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and a
motion to dismiss for failure to prosecute, to be heard on July 10, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 19, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.420 provides: 
“(a) The court may not dismiss an action pursuant to
this article for delay in prosecution except after one of the following
conditions has occurred: 
“(1) Service is not made within two years after the
action is commenced against the defendant. 
“(2) The action is not brought to trial within the
following times: 
“(A) Three years after the action is commenced against
the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under subparagraph (B). 
“(B) Two years after the action is commenced against
the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to Section
583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the court
calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice. 
“(3) A new trial is granted and the action is not
again brought to trial within the following times: 
“(A) If a trial is commenced but no judgment is
entered because of a mistrial or because a jury is unable to reach a decision,
within two years after the order of the court declaring the mistrial or the
disagreement of the jury is entered. 
“(B) If after judgment a new trial is granted and no
appeal is taken, within two years after the order granting the new trial is
entered. 
“(C) If on appeal an order granting a new trial is
affirmed or a judgment is reversed and the action remanded for a new trial,
within two years after the remittitur is filed by the clerk of the trial court. 
“(b) The times provided in subdivision (a) shall be
computed in the manner provided for computation of the comparable times under
Articles 2 (commencing with Section 583.210) and 3 (commencing with Section
583.310).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.420.) 
          “A discretionary dismissal under [Code of Civil Procedure
section 583.410] (or for other delay in prosecution) is ‘without prejudice’ to
renewed litigation.”  (L. Edmon & C.
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
11:190.2, p. 11-83.) 
California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1340(a), provides: 
“(a) Discretionary dismissal two years after filing 
“The court on its own motion or on motion of the
defendant may dismiss an action under Code of Civil Procedure sections
583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought to
trial or conditionally settled within two years after the action was commenced
against the defendant.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1340(a).) 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1342, provides: 
“(a) Notice
of motion 
“A party
seeking dismissal of a case under Code of Civil Procedure sections
583.410-583.430 must serve and file a notice of motion at least 45 days before
the date set for hearing of the motion. The party may, with the memorandum,
serve and file a declaration stating facts in support of the motion. The filing
of the notice of motion must not preclude the opposing party from further
prosecution of the case to bring it to trial. 
“(b) Written
opposition 
“Within 15
days after service of the notice of motion, the opposing party may serve and
file a written opposition. The failure of the opposing party to serve and file
a written opposition may be construed by the court as an admission that the
motion is meritorious, and the court may grant the motion without a hearing on
the merits. 
“(c) Response
to opposition 
“Within 15
days after service of the written opposition, if any, the moving party may
serve and file a response. 
“(d) Reply 
“Within five
days after service of the response, if any, the opposing party may serve and
file a reply. 
“(e) Relevant
matters 
“In ruling on
the motion, the court must consider all matters relevant to a proper
determination of the motion, including: 
“(1)  The court's file in the case and the
declarations and supporting data submitted by the parties and, where
applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential parties
for service of process; 
“(2)  The diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; 
“(3)  The extent to which the parties engaged in
any settlement negotiations or discussions; 
“(4)  The diligence of the parties in pursuing
discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any extraordinary relief
sought by either party; 
“(5)  The nature and complexity of the case; 
“(6)  The law applicable to the case, including the
pendency of other litigation under a common set of facts or determinative of
the legal or factual issues in the case; 
“(7)  The nature of any extensions of time or other
delay attributable to either party; 
“(8)  The condition of the court's calendar and the
availability of an earlier trial date if the matter was ready for trial; 
“(9)  Whether the interests of justice are best
served by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
“(10)  Any other fact or circumstance relevant to a
fair determination of the issue. 
“The court
must be guided by the policies set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
583.130.” 
“(f) Court
action 
“The court
may grant or deny the motion or, where the facts warrant, the court may
continue or defer its ruling on the matter pending performance by either party
of any conditions relating to trial or dismissal of the case that may be
required by the court to effectuate substantial justice.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1342.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Motion to dismiss for failure to prosecute 
On
October 16, 2020, Plaintiff filed this action against Yanez and other
defendants. On March 7, 2022, Yanez filed an answer. 
Since
the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved on
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff has not appeared at any hearings or filed any papers
in this case. Plaintiff has not sent Yanez discovery since April 5, 2022, and Plaintiff
has never attempted to take Yanez's deposition. Plaintiff did not appear for a
May 2, 2024, deposition noticed by Yanez. 
The
Court has considered the factors listed in California Rules of Court, rule
3.1342(e), and the policies listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130
and concludes that dismissal is appropriate based on Plaintiff’s failure to
prosecute the case. Therefore, the Court exercises its discretionary authority
under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.420, subdivision (a)(2), and
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1340, and dismisses Plaintiff’s case against
Yanez. 
B.   Motion to compel deposition 
Yanez’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is moot. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Daniel Yanez’s motion to dismiss and dismisses Plaintiff
Hongde Cui’s claims against Defendant Daniel Yanez without prejudice under Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.420, subdivision (a)(2), and California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1340. 
The
Court DENIES as moot Defendant Daniel Yanez’s motion to compel the deposition
of Plaintiff Hongde Cui. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.