  Case Number:  22AHCV01376    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YESENIA LOERA CASAS, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MAZDA
   MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01376
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY
   ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 12,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On December 23, 2022, plaintiffs
Yesenia Loera Casas and Oscar Casas collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action asserting a single cause of action for breach of express warranty
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”). Plaintiffs allege
that on September 2, 2019, they entered into a warranty contract with defendant
Mazda Motor of America, Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a 2016 Mazda Mazda6.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff claim that defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period and
Defendant was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to the warranty after a
reasonable number of repair attempts by Defendant’s authorized repair facility.
(Compl., ¶¶ 16-18.) Plaintiffs contend that Defendant violated the SBA by
failing to promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or make restitution. (Compl., ¶
20.) 
On January 25, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary
adjudication. Defendant argues that it did not issue any warranties in
connection with the sale of the Vehicle as a used vehicle by Toyota of
Pasadena, an independent third-party dealer. Defendant also argues that Oscar
Casas lacks standing to maintain a cause of action under the SBA because he is
not a “buyer” of the Subject Vehicle. In addition, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ claim for a civil penalty fails because there was no willful
failure to comply with obligations under the SBA. 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
opposition papers. 
On April 5, 2025, Defendant filed its
reply and evidentiary objections. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to enable summary dismissal without the need for
trial where an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)
Courts analyze motions for summary judgment in three steps: “(1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition ahs
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Summary judgment
is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in
the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact
exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 741.) As to each claim as framed by a complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts
to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
III.       
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
IV.       
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests judicial notice of trial
court orders, federal district court opinions, and a certified status
certificate from the Department of Consumer Affairs attesting that Defendant
operates a state-certified arbitration program. The unopposed request is
GRANTED. 
V.         
DISCUSSION
The facts of this case are largely
undisputed and this motion presents primarily a question of law. The parties
agree that Yesenia Loera Casas purchased the Subject Vehicle from Toyota of
Pasadena on September 2, 2019. (Defendant’s Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”)
No. 1.) At the time of purchase, the Subject Vehicle had 43,291 miles. (UMF No.
2.) Defendant was the original distributor of the Subject Vehicle and made
express warranties when it was new; it did not make any express warranties with
respect to the sale of the Subject Vehicle as a used vehicle by Toyota of
Pasadena. (UMF No. 3.)  The Subject
Vehicle was not sold as a certified preowned vehicle. (UMF No. 3.) The Subject Vehicle
originally came with a 36 month/36,000 mile “bumper to bumper warranty” which
expired prior to purchase, and the Subject Vehicle had the balance of the 60
month/60,000 powertrain warranty at the time of sale. (UMF No. 4.) This
powertrain warranty covers components such as the engine, transmission, and
front/rear drive system. (UMF No. 5.) 
Based on these facts, Defendant argues
that summary judgment is appropriate because the Subject Vehicle was not a “new
motor vehicle” because it was not purchased with a full new car warranty. 
A “new motor vehicle” is defined to
encompass “a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty[.]” (Civ. Code § 1793.2, subd.
(e)(2).) Defendant relies on Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209, in which the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s grant
of summary judgment and held that “previously sold cars accompanied by some
balance of the original warranty” did not meet the definition of a “new motor
vehicle” under the SBA. In Rodriguez, the plaintiffs argued that the
phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” in
section 1793.22(e)(2) applied to their vehicle, which was purchased used with a
balance remaining on an express warranty from the manufacturer. (Id. at p.
219.) The Court of Appeal disagreed with the plaintiffs and concluded that
"the phrase ‘other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty’ refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold cars
accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.” 
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite to Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, in which the Court
of Appeal stated that “cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's
new motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of ‘new motor
vehicle.’ ” (Id. at 123.) Plaintiffs argue that the Rodriguez
court mistakenly believed that the vehicle in Jensen was a demonstrator
used by the dealership. (Opp., p. 6.) But the Rodriguez court found Jensen
distinguishable because it involved a vehicle sold by a manufacturer-affiliated
dealer who, as the manufacturer’s representative, gave a 36,000-mile warranty “on
top” of the miles already on the car. The Rodriguez court did not assume
that the vehicle in Jensen was a demonstrator and even acknowledged that
the defendant manufacturer unsuccessfully argued that it was not a “new motor
vehicle” because it was not a demonstrator. (Rodriguez, supra, at
p. 224 [citing Jensen at p. 119.) The Rodriguez court also engaged
in an expansive analysis of the broader statutory context of the SBA, which
distinguishes between manufacturers, distributors, and sellers, as well as new
and used goods. The Rodriguez court noted that express warranty
protections for used goods were limited and only bind the seller or distributor
if an express warranty is issued at the time of sale. (Civ. Code, § 1795.5.) 
Last, Plaintiffs point out that
Defendant’s express warranty was transferable and suggests that a manufacturer has
ongoing obligations under the SBA. The transferability of the warranty is not
disputed by Defendant. Rather, Defendant argues on reply that the Rodriguez court
already considered the issue of transferability and stated that a transferrable
express warranty is a separate issue from Plaintiffs’ entitlement to the SBA’s
refund-or-replace remedy. (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.
225.) Instead, the Rodriguez court stated that “the beneficiary of a
transferrable express warranty can sue a manufacturer for breach of an express
warranty to repair defects under the California Uniform Commercial Code.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff argues that the SBA is intended to give broader protection to
consumers than the Commercial Code and that consumers who cannot afford to
purchase a new vehicle generally cannot afford the costs of a lawyer. (Opp..
pp. 13.) But this position ignores the protections granted under section 1795.5
of the SBA for used cars with express warranties made by a distributor or
retail seller. 
The Court acknowledges that the Supreme
Court granted petition for review of Rodriguez on July 13, 2022, but
notes that it denied requests for depublication of the opinion. Instead, the
Supreme Court stated, “Pending review, the opinion of the Court of Appeal [in Rodriguez]
. . . may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in
turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 . . ., to choose between sides
of any such conflict.” (Rodriguez v. FCA US (Cal. 2022) 512 P.3d 654;
see Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e).) The Court chooses to exercise its
discretion here and follow Rodriguez instead of Jensen as the
more factually apposite authority. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
granted. 
VI.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED. 
Dated
this 12th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 