 Case Number:  23AHCV01274    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YAWLIN CANDACE CHEN, a.k.a. CANDACE CHEN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LY MAI
   CHAU a.k.a. CHAU LY MAI, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01274
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 12,
  2024




 


 


 



 
          On December
20, 2023, Plaintiff Yawlin Candace Chen a.k.a. Candace Chen (“Plaintiff”) filed
this application for default judgment. Plaintiff requests a permanent
injunction as a remedy for her defamation claim against defendant Ly Mai Chau
aka Chau Ly Mai (“Defendant”). Defendant, who was formerly Plaintiff’s
sister-in-law, allegedly said that Plaintiff was illegally holding Defendant in
Plaintiff’s residence and withholding the address of the residence from
Defendant in order to isolate Defendant as if Plaintiff were a criminal
kidnapper. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Defendant also allegedly stated that Plaintiff was
forcing her to babysit and care for Plaintiff’s children as if Plaintiff were a
criminal that perpetrated the illegal act of involuntary servitude. (Compl., ¶
14.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant made these statements to Defendant’s aunt
and uncle and that Defendant also “made libelous statements on her social
media, via chat messages, and via text messages to others.” (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15.)

          Plaintiff
alleges that these statements were not true and that Defendant’s allegations
were an attempt to claim abuse and obtain a green card without Plaintiff’s
brother. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Defendant was allegedly given her own key to
Plaintiff’s residence and entered and exited Plaintiff’s residence at will.
(Compl., ¶ 16.) Defendant also used public transportation. (Ibid.)
Defendant also owned a California Real ID that she kept in her own handbag
which listed the address of Plaintiff’s address, and Plaintiff’s address was
also on the mail and packages that were “routinely left out in the open where
[Defendant] could see.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Defendant also owned her own cell phone
and table which she used daily, and had access to credit cards and cash. (Ibid.)
Additionally, Plaintiff did not want Defendant to care for her children and
declined Defendant’s requests to interact with her children until the eldest
child was 1.5 years old. (Compl., ¶ 18.) Plaintiff also took precautionary
steps to ensure that Defendant was never allowed to be lone with, feed, or
bathe the children due to her concern for their safety. (Ibid.) 
A defendant's failure to answer a
complaint has the same effect as an express admission of the matters well
pleaded in the complaint. (Steven M. Garber & Associates v. Eskandarian
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 813, 823) Because the default confesses those properly
pleaded facts, plaintiff has no responsibility to provide the court with
sufficient evidence to prove them—they are treated as true for purposes of
obtaining a default judgment. (Ostling v. Loring (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
1731, 1746). Here, Plaintiff asserts a claim for defamation. The elements of a
defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage. (See Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369.) Based
on the allegations of the Complaint, and as set forth above, Plaintiff has
adequately pleaded a claim for defamation. The Court proceeds to address her
request for a permanent injunction. 
The California Supreme Court has held
that, following a trial at which it is determined that the defendant defamed
the plaintiff, the court may issue an injunction prohibiting the defendant from
repeating the statements determined to be defamatory. (Balboa Island Village
Inn, Inc. v. Lemen (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1141, 1155–1156, as modified (Apr. 26,
2007).) However, Supreme Court also emphasized that any injunction must be
narrowly drawn. Plaintiff’s proposed judgment is overly broad in that it orders
Defendant to: (1) remove each and every defamatory statement published by her
about [Plaintiff] on social media and from anywhere else they appear on the
internet within 5 days after being served with this Judgment. The proposed
judgment also states that Defendant “is further enjoined from publishing or
causing to be published any defamatory statements of [Plaintiff].” (Proposed
Judgment, p. 2.) Plaintiff fails to define what constitutes a “defamatory
statement” in the proposed judgment (and any such definition would be limited
to the statements alleged in the Complaint). Additionally, Plaintiff’s brief
requests injunctive relief “prohibiting [Defendant] and her employees,
partners, principals, agents, affiliates, co-conspirators, alter-egos,
subsidiaries, aliases, and/or consultants of the other defendants from
publishing or causing to be published any defamatory statements of [Plaintiff].”
Like in Balboa Island, there is no evidence that anyone other than
Defendant defamed Plaintiff, or that Defendant is likely to induce others to do
so in the future. (See Balboa Island, supra, 40 Cal.4th at p.
1160.) Therefore, any requested injunction must apply only to Defendant
personally. Last, as the Supreme Court in Balboa Island specified, the
proposed injunction must not prevent Defendant from presenting her grievances
to government officials. (Id. at p. 1161.) 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
application for default judgment is DENIED without prejudice. 
Dated this 12th day of April,
2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 