  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Maria Angela Rodriguez v. Mercado  Latino, Inc., et al. Plaintiff Maria Angela Rodriguez’s  Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE RULING             The Court  GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff  must file the proposed First Amended Complaint within five days of the Court’s  order. Defendants must file a responsive pleading per code.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof  of service of same within five calendar days.  BACKGROUND This  is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela  Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.  (Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto  Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants) and  Does 1 through 50 for involuntary dissolution of Mercado Latino, involuntary  dissolution of Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, and an accounting.  On  November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to file a First  Amended Complaint. On July 13, 2023, Defendants opposed the motion. On November  29, 2023, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides,  in relevant part:  “The court may, in  furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to  amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any  party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any  other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or  demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its  discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be  just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may  upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this  code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “This discretion should be  exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors  resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports  Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of  Court, a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed  amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate  it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state  what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and  where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are  located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule  3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate  declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the  amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts  giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why  the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1324, subd. (b).)EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS             The Court OVERRULES Defendants’  evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Beverly J. Bickel.DISCUSSION             Plaintiff seeks leave to  file a First Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for elder abuse.  Plaintiff contends that this proposed amendment is necessary and proper because  it will add a new cause of action, and that denial of Plaintiff’s motion would  unduly prejudice Plaintiff by depriving Plaintiff of the ability to pursue this  cause of action. Plaintiff indicates that this additional cause of action is  based on the same set of facts as before and will not result in surprise to  Defendants. Plaintiff indicates that it was after Plaintiff’s current counsel  substituted in as counsel for Plaintiff and during subsequent discovery that Plaintiff  discovered facts indicating she had a potential elder abuse claim. (Bickel  Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff further indicates that Defendants refused to stipulate  to this amendment, thus necessitating this motion. The Court agrees with  Plaintiff and finds Plaintiff has substantially complied with the requirements  of Rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court.              Judicial discretion “should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,  for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same  lawsuit.” (Lincoln Prop. Co., N.C. v. Travelers Indem.  Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 905, 916, quoting Kittredge Sports  Co., supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1047.) While the Court agrees with  Defendants that Plaintiff has not adequately explained when the facts giving  rise to the amended allegations were discovered or why the request for leave to  amend was not made earlier, the public policy favoring permitting leave to  amend is strong. (See Id.)  To the extent Defendants argue the proposed First  Amended Complaint fails to state a cause of action for elder abuse, the Court  declines to consider those arguments at this time. “Ordinarily, the judge will not consider the  validity of the proposed amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to  amend. Grounds for demurrer or motion to strike  are premature. After leave to amend is granted, the opposing party will have  the opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading… [Citations.]” (E. Amended and Supplemental Pleadings, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial  Ch. 6-E, italics in original.) If Defendants need more time to file a  responsive pleading to the proposed First Amended Complaint and to conduct  discovery, a trial continuance would be appropriate considering this action is  only two and a half years old at this point in time. A new trial date can be  discussed at the hearing on this motion.              Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint.  CONCLUSION             The Court  GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff  must file the proposed First Amended Complaint within five days of the Court’s  order. Defendants must file a responsive pleading per code.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof  of service of same within five calendar days.