  Case Number:  23STCP00080    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




101 pine street, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
jeroen bik

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCP00080




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   25, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff / judgment creditor’s motion for
  order charging defendants / judgment debtors’ membership interest in limited
  liability companies and foreclosure thereof
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff and judgment creditor
101 Pine Street, LLC            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion for Order Charging Defendants / Judgment Debtors’ Membership
Interest in Limited Liability Companies and Foreclosure Thereof
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff and judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC (“Judgment
Creditor”) moves the court for an order (1) charging the interest of defendants
and judgment debtors Jeroen Bik and Miray Bik (“Judgment Debtors”) in KEP MTM 1
LLC, KEP MTM II LLC, KEP Fortune, LLC, and Fretca LLC (collectively, the
“Limited Liability Companies”) with payment of the unpaid balance of the
judgment entered against them by the court, (2) directing the Limited Liability
Companies and all managers and members thereof to pay any money or property due
or to become due to Judgment Debtors directly to Judgment Creditor until the
amount remaining on the judgment, including interest, is paid in full, and (3)
authorizing Judgment Creditor to foreclose upon and to sell Judgment Debtors’
membership interests in the Limited Liability Companies to the highest bidder. 
“If a money judgment is rendered against a partner or member but not
against the partnership or limited liability company, the judgment debtor’s
interest in the partnership or limited liability company may be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment by an order charging the judgment debtor’s
interest pursuant to Section 15907.03, 16504, or 17705.03 of the Corporations
Code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.310.)  Corporations Code section 17705.03 provides,
in relevant part, that “[o]n application by a judgment creditor of a member or
transferee, a court may enter a charging order against the transferable
interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied amount of the
judgment.  A charging order constitutes a
lien on a judgment debtor’s transferable interest and requires the limited
liability company to pay over to the person to which the charging order was
issued any distribution that would otherwise be paid to the judgment debtor.”  (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (a); Curci
Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 223 [“if the debtor
is a member of an LLC, the creditor may only obtain a charging order against distributions
made to the member”].) 
            First, the court grants Judgment
Creditor’s requests (1) for a charging order against Judgment Debtors’
interests in the Limited Liability Companies, and (2) for an order directing
the Limited Liability Companies to pay any money or property to become due to
Judgment Debtors directly to Judgment Creditor until the judgment entered by
the court in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtors on January
12, 2023, is satisfied.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.310; Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (a).) 
On January 12, 2023, the court entered judgment pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1710.25 in favor of Judgment Creditor and against
Judgment Debtors in the amount of $140,547.08, consisting of $138,473.17 on the
sister state judgment, $1,638.91 in accrued interest on the sister state
judgment, and $435 in filing fees for entry of the sister state judgment.  (Jan. 12, 2023 Judgment, p. 1.)  Plaintiff has presented evidence establishing
that (1) Judgment Debtors are members of the Limited Liability Companies, and
(2) Plaintiff has not collected any amount due under its judgment.  (Allyn Decl., Ex. 4, KEP MTM 1 LLC First
Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, p. 4, Exhibit A [naming as members
Judgment Debtors, Robert Radnoti, and Noelle Radnoti], Ex. 5, KEP MTM II LLC
Operating Agreement, p. 3 [naming as members Judgment Debtors and Robert
Radnoti], Ex. 6, Fretca LLC Operating Agreement, p. 15, Exhibit A [listing as
Members Judgment Debtors and Hermine Kafardian]; Allyn Decl., Ex. 3, Judgment
Debtor Exam, p. 44:6-24 [testifying that Judgment Debtors and Robert Radnoti
are members of KEP Fortune LLC]; Allyn Decl., ¶ 5].)  
Thus, the court finds that Judgment Creditor has shown that the court
should enter a charging order against Judgment Debtors’ interests in the
Limited Liability Companies. 
Second, the court denies, without prejudice, Judgment Creditor’s
request for an order authorizing Judgment Creditor to foreclose upon and sell
Judgment Debtors’ membership interests in the Limited Liability Companies.  (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (b)(3).) 
            “To the extent necessary to
effectuate the collection of distributions pursuant to a charging order in
effect under subdivision (a), the court may do any of the following: [¶¶] (3)
Upon a showing that distributions under a charging order will not pay the judgment
debt within a reasonable time, foreclose the lien and order the sale of the
transferable interest.  The purchaser at
the foreclosure sale obtains only the transferable interest, does not thereby
become a member, and is subject to Section 17705.02.”  (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (b)(3).) 
            The court finds that Judgment
Creditor has not shown “that distributions under a charging order will not pay
the judgment debt within a reasonable time” and therefore has not supported its
request for an order compelling foreclosure and sale of the transferable
interests.  (Corp. Code, § 17705.03,
subd. (b)(3).)  The court notes that, in
its motion, Judgment Creditor asserts that Judgment Debtors own 90 percent of
three of the Limited Liability Companies and 18 percent of one, and that
“[t]hey do not anticipate making any distribution to their members that
Judgment Creditor might capture by way of the Charging Order.”  (Mot., p. 7:16-18.)  However, while the court acknowledges that Judgment
Debtors testified that they do not take distributions from KEP MTM 1 LLC
because there is not enough capital or equity to make a distribution, Judgment
Debtors did not testify that (1) they do not anticipate receiving any
distributions from that LLC in the future, or (2) they do not receive
distributions from any of the other three companies.  (Allyn Decl., Ex. 3, Judgment Debtor Exam.,
pp. 37:17-38:5; Mot., p. 5:12-14 [citing to transcript pages 37:17-38:5 of
Judgment Debtors’ examination].)  
Thus, the court finds, based on the evidence submitted in connection
with the pending motion, that Judgment Creditor has not shown that distributions
made under the charging order will not pay the debt within a reasonable time as
required to support an order of foreclosure and sale of Judgment Debtors’
transferable interests in the Limited Liability Companies.  (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (b)(3).)
Third, the court denies Judgment Creditor’s request that the court issue
an order “specifically enjoin[ing]” the Judgment Debtors and Limited Liability
Companies “from transferring, cancelling, voiding, or modifying any interest of
the Judgment Debtors” in the Limited Liability Companies, and “from otherwise
transferring any distributions or funds in [a] manner that would avoid
satisfying the underlying Judgment[,]” because Judgment Creditor did not cite a
statute or other law authorizing the court to enter such an order.  (Mot., pp. 6:18-22, 7:26-8:1.)
ORDER
            The court grants in part and denies
in part plaintiff and judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC’s motion for order
charging judgment debtors’ membership interest in limited liability companies
and foreclosure thereof as follows. 
            The court grants plaintiff and
judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC’s request for a charging order against judgment
debtors Jeroen Bik and Miray Bik’s interests in KEP MTM 1 LLC, KEP MTM II, LLC,
KEP Fortune, LLC, and Fretca LLC.  
            The court denies plaintiff and
judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC’s request for foreclosure and sale of
the transferable interests, without prejudice to plaintiff and judgment
creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC’s filing a new motion that establishes the
requirements for such an order pursuant to Corporations Code section 17705.03,
subdivision (b)(3).
            The court will sign and file the
proposed “Order Charging Defendants/Judgment Debtors Jeroen Bik and Miray Bik’s
Membership Interest in Limited Liability Companies and for Foreclosure
Thereof,” lodged by plaintiff and judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC on October
5, 2023, as modified by the court. 
            The court orders plaintiff and
judgment creditor 101 Pine Street, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 25, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court