  Case Number:  22STCV11789    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative
Ruling: 
            Defendant
General Motors, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant General Motors, LLC moves for summary judgment of this action by
plaintiff Beth Gregorian.  In the
alternative, defendant moves for summary adjudication of each of plaintiff’s
five causes of action.  
Legal
Standard
Summary judgment should be granted where
no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as
a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFerren
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts
use a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  
Summary
of Facts
            On July 23, 2021, plaintiff Beth L.
Gregorian entered into a Lease Assumption Agreement pursuant to which she assumed
the lease of the subject vehicle from Joseph Sola.  (UMF 3, citing Jensen Decl., Ex. C.)  The agreement provides that it “is entered
into between the original Lessee(s) …, the Assuming Party(s) …, and ACAR
Leasing Ltd. (‘GM Financial Leasing’).  (Jensen
Decl., Ex. C.)  Joseph R. Sola was the
original lessee.  Plaintiff Gregorian was
the assuming party.  The “description of
lease” section provides: “Lessor/Assignee: [¶] CAMINO REAL CHEVROLET / ACAR
Leasing Ltd.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Under the contract, plaintiff “agree[d] to
pay GM Financial an Assumption Fee of $625.00 at signing.”  (Id., ¶ 4.)
The agreement’s section for additional
terms and conditions provides: “Consent: Lessee asks GM Financial Leasing to
consent to such transfer and assumption upon the terms and conditions of this
Agreement. [¶] Vehicle Condition: Assuming Party accepts the Vehicle in its
present, ‘AS IS’ condition.”  (Jensen
Decl., Ex. C, ¶ 5.)  Under the space for
Sola’s and plaintiff’s signatures, the lease provides: “Accepted By: [¶] ACAR
Leasing Ltd. by: AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc., as
attorney-in-fact.”  (Id., ¶ 7.)  The signature on AmeriCredit’s behalf is by
“Thomas Spurrier,” a “Supervisor.”  (Ibid.)
  
In
her response to defendant’s asserted fact No. 3, plaintiff stated, “Undisputed
and incomplete.”  She contends it is
incomplete because she “leased the Vehicle directly from Defendant GM” and that
“AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc. was acquired by Defendant GM in October,
2010.”
1st
to 3rd Causes of Action: Claims Under Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
            Plaintiff’s first three causes of
action are based on Civil Code section 1793.2, a provision of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (Song-Beverly Act): (1) failure repair or replace after a
reasonable number of attempts (§ 1793.2, subd. (d)); (2) failure to commence
repairs within a reasonable time (§ 1793.2, subd. (b)); and (3) failure to make
available sufficient literature (§ 1793.2, subd. (a)(3).)
            Defendant argues plaintiff has no
standing to bring these causes of action because she is not a “buyer” under
Civil Code section 1791, subdivision (b). 
That subdivision provides, “ ‘Buyer’ or ‘retail buyer’ means any
individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of
manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.”  Generally, under the Song-Beverly Act,
lessors have the same warranty obligations as sellers and lessees have the same
warranty rights as buyers.  (See Civ.
Code, § 1795.4.)  A “lessor” means “a
person who regularly leases consumer goods under a lease.”  (Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (i).)  Defendant contends that the definition of
“buyer” does not apply because plaintiff assumed the lease from Sola, the prior
lessee, who was not a seller engaged in the business of manufacturing,
distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.  
            The court rejects this
argument.  Under the Lease Assumption
Agreement, plaintiff was obligated to make lease payments to GM Financial
Leasing, not Sola.  There is no evidence
in the record regarding whether GM Financial Leasing is in the business of
manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail or whether it regularly
leases consumer goods.  As the moving
party, defendant has the initial burden of showing that plaintiff cannot prevail
on its causes of action.  Defendant has
not met its burden on this issue.
            Defendant also argues the subject vehicle
was not a “consumer good” under Civil Code section 1791, subdivision (a).  That subdivision provides, “ ‘Consumer goods’
means any new product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased
for use primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, except for
clothing and consumables.  ‘Consumer
goods’ shall include new and used assistive devices sold at retail.”  (Italics added.)  Defendant contends that the subject vehicle
was not a “new” car.
            With respect to plaintiff’s first
cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), the
more specific definition of “new” vehicle of Civil Code section 1793.22,
subdivision (e)(2) applies.  (Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 126 (Jensen);
see also Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (d)(2) [“defined in paragraph 2 of
subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22”]; §1793.22, subd. (e) [“For purposes of
subdivision (d) of Section 1793.3”].)  
            Civil Code section 1793.22,
subdivision (e)(2) provides: “ ‘New motor vehicle’ means a new motor
vehicle that is bought or used primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes.  ‘New motor vehicle’ also means
a new motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds that
is bought or used primarily for business purposes by a person . . . to which
not more than five motor vehicles are registered in this state.  ‘New motor vehicle’ includes the
chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion,
but does not include any portion designed, used, or maintained primarily for
human habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a “demonstrator” or other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty . . . .”  (Emphasis added.)  
            The Courts of Appeal are split
regarding the meaning of the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty.”  
            Jensen cites this phrase to
support its conclusion that a “new motor vehicle” within the meaning of Civil
Code section 1793.22 “includes cars sold with a balance remaining on the new
motor vehicle warranty.”  (Jensen,
supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 126.)
Several later decisions have distinguished
or criticized Jensen.  In Dagher
v. Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905, the court distinguished Jensen
because there, “the subsequent purchaser had leased from the dealer, not from a
private party.”  (Id. at p. 923.)  The court stated, “The statements in Jensen
about the Act’s coverage for subsequent purchasers of vehicles with a balance
remaining on the express warranty, must be read in light of the facts then
before the court, and are limited in that respect.”  (Ibid.)  “In Jensen, the vehicle qualified as
new because she acquired it from the dealer, at retail, under warranty.  [Citation.] 
Here, however, Plaintiff acquired the used truck from private parties.”  (Ibid.)
More recently, Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 209 (review granted July 13, 2022, S274625) (Rodriguez) held
the Song-Beverly Act’s definition of “new motor vehicle” applies “to vehicles
that have never been previously sold to a consumer and come with full express
warranties” but not to “used vehicles sold with some part of the manufacturer’s
warranty still in force.”  (Id. at
pp. 220-221.)  The court distinguished Jensen
on the basis that there, the vehicle was “leased with a full manufacturer’s
warranty issued by the manufacturer’s representative” instead of “a used car
with an unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller.”  (Id. at p. 224.)
Finally, Stiles v. Kia Motors America,
Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 913 (review granted July 24, 2024, S285433) (Stiles)
disagreed with Rodriguez and held, “[A] previously owned motor vehicle
purchased with the manufacturer’s new car warranty still in effect is a ‘new
motor vehicle’ as defined by section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2).”  (Id. at p. 915.)  
Both Rodriguez and Stiles
may be cited for their persuasive authority pending review by the California
Supreme Court.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 8.1115(e)(1) [“Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court’s opinion,
unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of
a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may
be cited for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of
Appeal opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by
the Supreme Court.”].)  The Supreme
Court’s orders granting review of both opinions did not prohibit citing them
for persuasive value.  
The Supreme Court recently heard oral
argument in Rodriguez.  Accordingly,
to save judicial resources and to efficiently manage its docket, the court
shall continue the hearing on this motion so that it can consider the Supreme
Court’s ruling on Rodriguez before making a final decision on
plaintiff’s first cause of action.
With respect to plaintiff’s second and
third causes of action, the more specific definition Civil Code section 1793.22,
subdivision (e)(2) does not apply.  Plaintiff
thus must show the subject vehicle is a “new product” within the meaning of
Civil Code section 1791, subdivision (a) to prevail on her claims.  Because the parties did not brief the issue,
the court will abstain from ruling on it at this time.
4th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability
            Defendant is entitled to judgment as
a matter of law on this cause of action. 
The fourth cause of action alleges defendant breached the implied
warranty of merchantability under Civil Code sections 1791.1, 1794, and
1795.5.  (FAC, ¶¶ 15-18.)  Civil Code section 1791.3 provides, “As used
in this chapter, a sale ‘as is’ or ‘with all faults’ means that the
manufacturer, distributor, and retailer disclaim all implied warranties that
would otherwise attach to the sale of consumer goods under the provisions of
this chapter.”  
It is undisputed that plaintiff acquired
the subject vehicle via a Lease Assumption Agreement in 2021.  (Jensen Decl., Ex. C.)  The agreement provides, “Vehicle Condition:
Assuming Party accepts the Vehicle in its present, ‘AS IS’ condition.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address this dispositive
issue.  It instead only makes a generic
argument about the implied warranty of merchantability.  
5th
Cause of Action: Fraud
            Defendant does not meet its burden
of showing it is entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.  Defendant contends plaintiff cannot establish
the element of defendant’s duty to disclose because the parties had no
fiduciary relationship or any direct transaction.  
Assuming defendant had no direct
transaction with plaintiff, that does not mean plaintiff cannot establish the
element of duty to disclose.  That duty does
not always require a direct transaction or contract.  (Heliotis
v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) 
A defendant can be liable for fraud by omission “when the defendant had
exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff.”  (Ibid.; accord LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.)  “[A] vendor has a duty to disclose material
facts not only to the immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent
purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be
resold.”  (OCM Principal Opportunities
Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859.)  Defendant does not meet its initial burden of
presenting evidence that it did not have exclusive knowledge of the alleged
defect.
In its reply brief, defendant contends it
did not have exclusive knowledge of the defect because it “made information
concerning the ‘Battery Defect’ available.” 
(Reply, p. 8, citing plaintiff’s evidence.)  The court will not grant summary adjudication
based on grounds raised for the first time in the reply brief.  (See Pereda v. Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 759, 766; San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316.) 

Moreover, assuming a direct transaction or
contract is required, the parties have one direct transaction.  The manufacturer’s express warranty for
plaintiff’s vehicle may constitute a “contractual relationship or transaction”
that “gives rise to a duty to disclose.” 
(Scherer v. FCA US, LLC (S.D. Cal. 2021) 565 F.Supp.3d 1184, 1194.)
Code
of Civil Procedure 437c(h)
Finally, plaintiff argues the court should
deny this motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  That provision permits a court to deny a
motion for summary judgment when “it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff makes no such showing.  Plaintiff makes only a conclusory assertion
that facts essential to justify opposition may exist because plaintiff has yet
to depose defendant’s person most qualified or discover various documents
requested.  This motion relies almost
exclusively on the single-page lease assumption agreement.  The court will only grant this motion as to
the fourth cause of action based on the “as-is” provision in that agreement.  Plaintiff gives no explanation of how
additional discovery from defendant could include any evidence that would
justify opposing the motion.           
Disposition
            Defendant
General Motors, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is denied.  Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is denied.  Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is granted.  The court shall continue the hearing on this
motion with respect to plaintiff’s first, second, and third causes of action to
February 20, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.  The
parties may file further briefing plaintiff’s first, second, and third causes
of action on or before February 12, 2025.
            The
court, on its own motion, continues the trial to March 19, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.,
and the final status conference to March 12, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.  The joint trial documents required by the
December 16, 2022, trial preparation order, shall be filed no later than March 4,
2025.  
            