 Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
Farmers Defendants’ Motion to Compel Answers
to Deposition Questions
            Defendants Farmers
Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company (collectively, “Farmers”) move to compel plaintiff Maureen
Martinez to answer 14 questions asked at her deposition.  “If a deponent fails to answer any question
…, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer.”  (CCP § 2025.480(a).)  
Generally, the deponent may avoid
answering a question only based on an objection “to protect privileged
information from disclosure.”  (Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.)  For other objectionable questions, “counsel
should not instruct the deponent not to answer … ‘[u]nless the objecting party
demands that the taking of the deposition be suspended to permit a motion for a
protective order.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
Of the 14 questions plaintiff did
not answer, her counsel objected based on privilege only to Nos. 1, 5, 11, 12.  For question Nos. 2-4, 6-10, 13, and 14,
plaintiff objected for other reasons such as relevance, privacy, or that the
question was argumentative.  Those are
objections to admissibility of evidence or the form of the question, not to disclosure
of information in discovery.  None of
those objections permit plaintiff to avoid answering the question.
Attorney-Client Privilege (Nos. 1 & 5)
            Plaintiff
does not show that question Nos. 1 and 5 seek information protected by
attorney-client privilege.  The attorney-client privilege protects
“information transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the course
of that relationship and in confidence.” (Evid. Code, § 952.)
            No. 1 asks, “Have they [plaintiff’s
attorneys] return[ed] any of the records you turned over to them?”  It does not ask about the substance of any information
transmitted.  It asks about possession of
documents.  Assuming the privilege
applied, plaintiff waived it.  She already
testified that the “records would have been given to my attorneys.”  Answering whether the attorneys returned
those records reveals no additional information transmitted between plaintiff
and her counsel.
            No. 5 asks, “Among the documents
that you turned over to your lawyers, are there documents that indicate what
the corporation paid you in salary or net profit in the year 2018?”  The question does not invade attorney-client
privilege.  “Where the privilege applies,
it may not be used to shield facts, as opposed to communications, from
discovery.”  (Edwards Wildman Palmer
LLP v. Superior Court (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1226.)  “Relevant facts may not be withheld merely
because they were incorporated into a communication involving an attorney, and
knowledge that is not otherwise privileged does not become so by being
communicated to an attorney.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff already testified she gave some
documents to her lawyers.  That she did
so does not mean she has a privilege to refuse to disclose what documents she
possessed.  Turning the documents over to
her lawyers does not shield the facts about their existence.
Tax Return Privilege (Nos. 11 & 12)
Plaintiff does not show that
question Nos. 11 and 12 seek information protected under the tax return
privilege.  There is “a statutory
privilege against disclosing tax returns.” 
(Weingarten v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 268,
274.)  The privilege extends beyond tax
returns themselves and applies to other documents that “constitute an integral
part of the return,” like W-2 forms.  (Brown
v. Superior Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, 143.)  And parties may not “avoid the application of the privilege by indirect
means” of discovery, such as asking for “information concerning specific
entries in” a tax return.  (Sav-On
Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 7.)
Question No. 11 asks plaintiff about an email she wrote:
“And then you write, ‘Our personal taxes show we write everything off.’  Was that an accurate statement at the time you
wrote it?”  The question does not violate
the tax return privilege.  Plaintiff made
a prior statement about her tax returns. 
Farmers asked her whether that statement was accurate.  The answer would disclose no more than generic
information about her taxes.
Question No. 12 asks another question about an email
plaintiff wrote: “What did you mean when you wrote, ‘but this year we have been
bumping up our payroll’?”  Plaintiff
fails to show that has anything to do with her taxes.  At most, it would reveal general information,
not specific entries or an integral part of the return.
Sanctions
            Farmers
moves for $3,500 in sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480(j)
provides, “The court shall impose a monetary … against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  Plaintiff
unsuccessfully opposed this motion.  She
did not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Farmers reasonably incurred $3,500 in
expenses.
Disposition
            Defendants Farmers
Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company’s motion to compel answers to deposition questions is granted.

            Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez is ordered to appear for deposition within 20 days and
answer question Nos. 1-14 as listed in defendants’ separate statement in
support of this motion.  
            Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez and her counsel of record, Maryann P. Gallagher, are ordered
to pay the Farmers defendants $3,500 in sanctions within 20 days.  Plaintiff and her counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.Tentative Ruling: 
Defendant Jeff Sharp’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Deposition
            Defendant
Jeff Sharp moves to compel the deposition of plaintiff Maureen Martinez.  Any party to the action may depose any other
party.  (CCP § 2025.010.)  Though the attorney for other defendants has
questioned plaintiff, Jeff Sharp’s counsel has not.
Plaintiff’s opposition provides no
reason to deny the motion.  Plaintiff objects
that she has already testified for 21 hours. 
This action alleges violations of employment law, so the usual
seven-hour limit does not apply.  (CCP §
2025.290(a)(4).)  There is no time
limit.  Plaintiff also contends Christopher
Maile wasted time at the depositions. 
Maile does not represent Jeff Sharp. 
Maile’s conduct has no bearing on Sharp’s right to have his attorney,
Candice Nam, question plaintiff.  Finally,
plaintiff argues Nam “deferred to Mr. Maile to ask all of the questions.”  (Opp., p. 4.) 
Letting Maile ask questions first does not mean Nam waived the right to
ask questions.  Permitting Maile to
finish questioning plaintiff before Nam began her questions, rather than
interrupting in the middle of Maile’s questions, was orderly and
courteous.           
            Defendant
Jeff Sharp’s motion to compel the deposition of plaintiff Maureen Martinez is granted.  Plaintiff Maureen Martinez is ordered
to appear and testify at a deposition by defendant Jeff Sharp within 20
days.  