 Case Number:  23STCV22402    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  34 Archey v. Madactive
Productions, LLC, et al. (23STCV22402)
1.         Plaintiff
Lamon Archey’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Set Two of Form
Interrogatories No. 17.1 Propounded on Walton/Isaacson, LLC is GRANTED.
Defendant Walton/Isaacson, LLC is to
provide verified response(s), without objections, to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Set Two of Form Interrogatories No. 17.1, if
necessary within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.  
2.         Plaintiff
Lamon Archey’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Set Two of Special
Interrogatories Nos. 13, 14 and 15 Propounded on Walton/Isaacson, LLC is DENIED.
3.         Plaintiff
Lamon Archey’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Set Two of Request for
Admissions No. 13 Propounded on Walton/Isaacson, LLC is GRANTED. Defendant
Walton/Isaacson, LLC is to provide
verified responses, without objections, to Set Two of Request for
Admissions No. 13, within 20 days from
the date of the notice of ruling.  
4.         Plaintiff
Lamon Archey’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Set One of Request for
Admissions Re Genuineness No. 1 Propounded on Walton/Isaacson, LLC is GRANTED. Defendant
Walton/Isaacson, LLC is to provide
verified responses, without objections, to Set Two of Request for
Admissions Re Genuineness No. 1, within
20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.  
Background   
Plaintiff Lamon Archey (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On or around March 2, 2022, Defendants
Madactive Productions, LLP and Walton/Isaacson, LLC (“Madactive” and “WI” and
collectively “Defendants”) employed Plaintiff as a model for a still image
shoot conducted for the production of still images for use in print, digital,
or internet media. That employment began on March 2, 2022, and concluded on
March 2, 2022. Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants was pursuant to an
employment agreement pursuant to which the employment was to last for one day,
and for which Defendants agreed to pay PLAINTIFF wages at the rate of $7,500.00
for the one day of employment. 
 
Pursuant to Labor Code section 201.6, Plaintiff
was entitled to be paid his wages by Defendants the next regular payday (as
used herein, “next regular payday” has the meaning as defined in Labor Code
section 201.6(a)(2)) following Plaintiff’s termination from his employment with
Defendants. Plaintiff’s termination from his employment with Defendants
occurred on March 2, 2022, and as such, pursuant to Labor Code section 204, Defendants’
next regular payday was required to occur on or before March 26, 2022.  Despite having discharged Plaintiff from his
employment on March 2, 2022, Defendants failed to make payment of Plaintiff’s
wages on or before Defendants’ next regular payday following that date of
discharge.
On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause
of action against Defendants and Does 1-50 for nonpayment of wages and waiting
time penalties (Labor Code section 203):
A Final Status Conference is set for January 9, 2025 and
Trial is set for January 21, 2025.
1.              
Motion to Compel Furthers Re: Form
Interrogatories
Legal Standard
“[T]he propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that . .
. (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[,] (2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate[,
and/or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
The moving
party must demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal
resolution of each issue presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1).) “In lieu of a separate statement required under the California
Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise
outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(2).)
Notice of the motion must be provided “within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections to the requests. (Coy v.
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction. . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order compelling WI to provide further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two (i.e., No. 17.1). Specifically, the interrogatory requests the
following:
Is your response to each request for
admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not,
for each response that is not an unqualified admission: 
(a)        state the number of the request; 
(b)       state all facts upon which you base your
response; 
(c)        state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone
numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(d)       identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible
things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Timothy Hall, declares as follows:
On March 28, 2024, on behalf of
Plaintiff, we propounded written discovery to Defendant Walton/Isaacson, LLC (“WI”
or “Defendant”). Included in that written discovery were Set One of Requests
for Admissions re Genuineness; Set Two of Requests for Admissions; Set Two of
Special Interrogatories; and Set Two of Form Interrogatories. (Hall Decl., ¶
2.) 
 
On May 2, 2024, we received service of
WI’s responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery. (Id., ¶ 3.) Among those
responses were WI’s Responses to Set One of Requests for Admissions re
Genuineness; WI’s Responses to Set Two of Requests for Admissions; WI’s
Responses to Set Two of Special Interrogatories; and WI’s Reponses to Set Two
of Form Interrogatories. (Id.)
 
On May 15, 2024, I sent a letter to
counsel for WI discussing the insufficiencies of WI’s responses to Plaintiff’s
written discovery in an attempt to informally resolve those deficiencies. (Id.,
¶ 4.) That letter was sent by email. (Id.) On May 21, 2024, the
assistant to WI’s counsel, Mr. Fisher, sent me an email indicating that Mr.
Fisher had not been able to respond to the meet and confer letter, but that he
would make a formal response within the week. (Id., ¶ 4.) Thereafter, on
May 28, 2024, we responded to Mr. Fisher’s assistant’s email proposing that the
deadline for WI’s supplemental responses be extended to May 28, 2024 and that
the deadline for filing motions to compel be extended to June 21, 2024. (Id.)
Mr. Fisher responded: “agreed”. (Id.) 
 
On May 28, 2024, Mr. Fisher emailed me
indicating that he had earlier tried to telephone me and had left a message,
but would be in all day the following day. (Id., ¶ 6.) I responded on
that same day and suggested that we have a telephone discussion on the
following day. (Id.) On May 29, 2024, I had a telephone discussion with
Mr. Fisher regarding WI’s written discovery responses. (Id., ¶ 7.) Mr.
Fisher indicated that WI would make supplemental responses to some of the Set
Two of Special Interrogatories, but that WI would not make any supplemental
responses to the Set One of Requests for Admissions re Genuineness, Set Two of
Requests for Admissions, or to the Set Two of Form Interrogatories. (Id.)
He indicated that the deadlines for the motions to compel would be extended to
24 days after the date upon which WI made its supplemental responses. (Id.)

 
On June 6, 2024, Mr. Fisher emailed me
indicating that WI would supplement some responses and that the deadline for
filing our motions to compel further responses would be extended to 24 days
after the date of those supplemental responses. (Id., ¶ 8.) On that same
day, my co-counsel, John Matheny, emailed Mr. Fisher to clarify that the
extension for the deadline for filing motions to compel applied to all of the
disputed written discovery and would run at 24 days after the date WI made any
supplemental responses. (Id.) Mr. Fisher confirmed that all dates would
be extended by 24 days after the date of supplemental responses. (Id.)  On June 13, 2024, WI served supplemental
responses to Special Interrogatories Set Two[.] (Id., ¶ 8.)  
Given the court’s
order concerning the requests for admission below, a further response by WI to
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 may be necessary if WI does not provide an unqualified
admission.
2.              
Motion to Compel Furthers Re: Special
Interrogatories
Legal Standard
See
Synopsis for Motion #1
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order compelling WI to provide further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two (i.e., Nos. 13-15).
See
Synopsis for Motion #1
On June 13, 2024,
Plaintiff received supplemental responses to Set Two of the Special
Interrogatories. The court has no information whether those responses are
inadequate. In any event, if they are inadequate, it appears that a further
meet and confer may be necessary because of the recent submission. Therefore,
the court will deny the motion.
3.              
Requests for
Admissions
Legal Standard
“[T]he
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that . . . (1) [a]n answer to a particular request is
evasive or incomplete [and/or] (2) [a]n objection to a particular request is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).)
The moving party
must demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal
resolution of each issue presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2033.290,
subd. (b)(1).) “In lieu of a separate statement required under the
California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b)(2).)
Notice
of the motion must be provided “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to
which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing . .
.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) The responding
party has the burden of justifying the objections to the requests. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d
210, 220-221.)
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order compelling WI to provide a further response to Set Two of Requests
for Admission (i.e., No. 13).
See Synopsis for Motion #1
Plaintiff’s Request
for Admission No. 13 requests:
Admit that the photographs produced at
the PHOTOSHOOT were produced for use in print, digital, or internet media. 
(Hall Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit B.) WI objects that the request is
“vague and ambiguous” because  photographs
is not defined. WI also objected on the grounds the request is “compound,
conjunctive, or disjunctive.” A plain reading of the request demonstrates that
Plaintiff is seeking WI to admit that the photographs taken on the day
Plaintiff was employed were made for use in the three areas identified. A further
response will be ordered.
4.              
Request for
Admission Re: Genuineness
Legal Standard
See Synopsis for Motion #3
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court for an order compelling WI to provide a further response to Set Two of Requests
for Admission (i.e., No. 1).
See Synopsis for Motion #1
Plaintiff’s Request
for Admission No. 1 requests:
Admit that the original of the
document, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this
reference as Exhibit A, is genuine. 
(Hall Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) WI objects that the request is
“vague and ambiguous” because  photographs
is not defined. WI also objected on the grounds the request is “compound,
conjunctive, or disjunctive.” A plain reading of the request demonstrates that
Plaintiff is seeking WI to admit that a document sent to Plaintiff. A further
response will be ordered.