 Case Number:  21SMCV00574    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Estevez v. General
Motors, LLC, Case No. 21SMCV00574
Hearing Date
October 5, 2023 
Plaintiff
Estevez’s Motion for Attorney Fees 
 
Plaintiff Estevez sued
General Motors, alleging failure to fix a transmission defect. The parties
settled, with defendant agreeing to pay prevailing party attorney’s fees
pursuant to a motion and memorandum of costs.
 
Estevez seeks
$70,802.50 in attorneys’ fees and $3,723 in anticipated fees (reduced in the
reply brief from the amount sought in the initial motion), billed at hourly
rates of $300-515/hour, for five attorneys who performed almost 200 hours of
work. Plaintiff’s initial motion sought costs, but the reply stated that costs
would be sought via a separate mechanism.
 
The prevailing
party in a defective vehicle case brought by a buyer is entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees. Cal. Civ. Code §1794(d). A court has broad discretion to
adjust an award of attorney’s fees downward if plaintiff fails to prove the
fees incurred and tasks performed were reasonable and necessary. Ketchum v.
Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1138. 
 
Estevez argues the
requested fees are reasonable and necessary, reflecting time propounding
written discovery, deposing GM’s PMQ, attending a vehicle inspection, court
hearings, including informal discovery conferences and case management
conferences, reviewing discovery responses, moving to compel responses and
securing a settlement. Cohen decl. ¶¶30-52. 
Estevez states the matter was hotly litigated, with GM employing a
“stonewalling” throughout. The hourly rates sought are not excessive.
 
GM argues the total
fees requested is excessive. Much of GM’s opposition is based on the argument
that since Estevez’s counsel relied on work product from prior cases to draft
discovery requests and motions, they should not have had to spend as much time
as was billed. Estevez does not dispute that counsel relied on templates but
argues their use should not be used as a basis for reducing the fee award. 
 
The court agrees that
some of the amounts billed are excessive and do not seem to reflect the time
efficiencies use of a template should yield. Estevez requests 5.3 hours on
discovery responses and 12.7 hours drafting a motion to compel further
discovery responses and reply. These amounts are reasonable.
 
Ten hours spent
preparing discovery requests is not reasonable, nor is 5.1 hours spent
preparing a meet and confer letter, 6.6 hours spent preparing deposition
subpoenas, or 10.8 hours spent preparing a motion to compel, since use of a
template should have resulted in less time spent on each task. To reflect a
reasonable amount of time saved through templates, the time spent drafting
discovery requests will be reduced by four hours ($860.70), the time spent
drafting the meet and confer letters will be reduced by three hours ($992.64),
the time spent preparing the deposition subpoenas and reviewing objections will
be reduced by four hours ($1,600) and the time preparing the motion to compel
will be reduced by five hours ($1,600). A total reduction of $5,052.70, to
reflect time saved using pre-existing briefs and other documents, is
appropriate. 
 
The other
requested fees and costs are reasonable and supported by billing records and
the nature of the tasks performed. Plaintiff Estevez is awarded $69,499.80 in
attorneys’ fees. 