 Case Number:  23SMCV01332    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Poulton v. Network
Capital Funding, Case No. 23SMCV01332
Hearing Date
October 5, 2023 
Defendant Network
Capital Funding’s Petition to Compel Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff Poulton
alleges constructive termination by defendant Network Capital Funding in
retaliation for complaints about working conditions, illegal practices and
deceptive recruitment techniques. Defendant moves to compel arbitration, based
on an arbitration agreement covering all disputes arising out of employment
with NCFC.  
 
There is a liberal
federal policy favoring arbitration, requiring arbitration agreements to be put
on equal footing with other contracts and requiring courts to resolve any
doubts as to whether a dispute falls within an arbitration provision in favor
of arbitration. AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S.
333, 339; AT&T Tech., Inc. v. Comm Workers of Am. (1986) 475 U.S.
643, 650. A similar policy has been expressed by California courts. Hayes
Children Leasing Co. v. NCR Corp. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 775, 788.
 
An arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
if it unduly favors the side with greater bargaining power. Carbajal v.
CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 249. Procedural unconscionability
exists when there are elements of surprise or oppression in the formation of
the contract due to unequal bargaining power. Magno v. The Coll. Network,
Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 284-287. A contract of adhesion – a
standardized agreement drafted by the party with superior bargaining strength
and granting the subscribing party no opportunity to negotiate its terms – is
not per se unconscionable, but is subject to heightened scrutiny for
one-sided terms or elements of surprise in its formation. Peng v. First
Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469-1470. Absent other elements
of unconscionability, an arbitration agreement imposed as a condition of
employment is enforceable. Serafin v. Balco Properties, Ltd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 179. 
 
Plaintiff signed
an arbitration agreement and voluntary dispute resolution policy. Exhs. A and
B. Both contain arbitration clauses. Plaintiff argues she was required to sign
them to begin employment with NCFC. Poulton decl. ¶16. Though the agreements
were contracts of adhesion, per Peng and Serafin, this fact alone
does not render them unenforceable.
 
Plaintiff does not
identify other meaningful indicia of unconscionability. The motion lists nine
factors alleged to demonstrate procedural unconscionability, but seven
essentially argue the contract was adhesive. The other two– the recruiter’s
failure to explain the contents of the contract and failure to provide a copy
of the contract– do not suggest unconscionability. There is no allegation the
recruiter prevented plaintiff from reading the documents or asking questions
about their contents or that she concealed their meaning or import from plaintiff.
Plaintiff fails to show procedural unconscionability. 
 
Plaintiff also argues
the agreement is substantively unconscionable. It requires claims against
“parent, subsidiary, or client entities” of NCFC’s “owners, directors,
officers, managers, agents, contractors, attorneys, benefit plan
administrators, and insurers,” to be arbitrated, requiring plaintiff to give up
a broad swath of potential claims against unidentified third parties. Second,
the agreement requires Poulton to arbitrate all claims against these
third parties, not just employment-related claims. Id. Finally, Poulton
argues the contract is one-sided, as it does not compel NCFC to waive claims
against unidentified third parties. 
 
These arguments
mischaracterize the terms of the agreements. The dispute resolution agreement
is bilateral, applying to both “[Poulton] and Network Capital Funding
Corporation.” Baumann decl., Exhibit A ¶1. The agreement applies only to
“claims that might arise out of or be related in any way to [Poulton’s] employment
by the company,” not any other category of claim. Id., emphasis added. Further,
absent one-sidedness, overbreadth alone is not a valid basis for declaring a
contract unconscionable. The agreement is bilateral, and not substantively
unconscionable. 
 
GRANTED. The
matter is referred to arbitration, and this action is stayed. The court will
set a status conference regarding the status of arbitration out six to nine
months.