  Case Number:  20STCV46976    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Adefuye v. Surly
Goat Group Inc. et al., Case No. 20STCV46976
Hearing Date October
5, 2023 
Defendant Chompol
Properties, Aivarzian, Sweeney and Bradford’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
Plaintiff Adefuye,
who worked as a security guard/bouncer at the Surly Goat bar/restaurant, alleges
he was assaulted by other guards/bouncers. Defendant Chompol Properties, LLC,
which owns the Surly Goat, and its members Aivazian, Sweeney and Bradford move
for summary judgment/adjudication, arguing undisputed facts show Adefuye’s
claims lack evidentiary support.
 
Member Defendants—Assault/Battery
A corporate
officer or director is not liable for the corporation’s torts unless they
ratify or directly participate in the wrongdoing. Frances T. v. Village
Green Owners Ass’n. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503-504. 
 
At deposition,
Adefuye admitted he never met Aivizian or Sweeney, and no member defendant
battered him. Defendants’ Separate Statement No. 31. This is sufficient to
carry the initial burden on summary judgment, as LLC members are not liable for
their entity’s torts absent direct participation.
 
Adefuye’s
opposition does not directly address this argument. While plaintiff argues
Chompol Properties employed the bouncers, he does not claim the individual members
were employers and presents no evidence they participated in or ratified the
alleged assault. There is no evidentiary basis for these claims against moving
defendants on a direct or vicarious liability theory. Summary adjudication GRANTED
as to the assault and battery claims in favor of moving defendants. 
 
Chompol –
Assault/Battery 
An employee is
vicariously liable for an employee’s tortious acts committed within the course
and scope of employment. CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 1255, 1260. An employer is not liable for the torts of its
independent contractors. Johnson v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 1097, 1107. An independent contractor is (1) free from the control
and direction of the hiring entity, (2) performs work outside the usual course
of the hiring entity’s usual business, (3) is customarily engaged in an
independently established trade. Dynamex Operations W. v. Superior Court (2018)
4 Cal.5th 903, 957. 
 
Chompol provides
evidence it does not control the manner and means of the guards’ work at the
Surly Goat, works through a third-party contractor rather than hiring them
directly, and is not in the business of providing security. Defendants’
separate statement 4-19. This is evidence the bouncers are not Chompol’s
employees, so Chompol is not vicariously liable for their torts. The burden
shifts to Adefuye to show a triable issue of fact as to the bouncers’ status as
employees. 
 
Adefuye argues
Chompol controlled the bouncers’ activity, exposing the LLC to vicarious
liability as an employer, but cites no evidence in support of this contention.
Adefuye’s separate statement includes no citation to evidence that Chompol was
the bouncers’ direct employer. The undisputed evidence shows they were
independent contractors, not employees. There is no basis to hold Chompol
vicariously liable for the alleged assault. Summary adjudication GRANTED as to
the assault and battery claims against Chompol. 
 
Ralph Act
To establish a
claim under the Ralph act, plaintiff must establish defendant’s violent act or
threat of violence had a discriminatory motive. Gabrielle A. v. County of
Orange (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1291.
 
As stated, there
is no basis to hold Chompol or its members directly liable for assault/battery.
No violent act or threat of violence is alleged other than the assault by
bouncers. Since Chompol and its members are not liable for the alleged assault,
they consequently cannot be liable under the Ralph Act. Summary adjudication
GRANTED as to the Ralph Act claims against Chompol and the moving defendants.
 
Breach of Contract

Defendants present
evidence Adefuye admitted no contract existed between him and Chompol.
Defendants’ Separate Statement No. 19. This is sufficient to shift the initial
burden on summary judgment. Adefuye’s opposition does not address the breach of
contract cause of action, which the court will treat as an admission that no
contract exists. Summary adjudication GRANTED against Chompol as to the breach
of contract cause of action. 
 
Premises Liability

A cause of action
for premises liability requires a plaintiff to show the property owner had
knowledge of a dangerous condition that caused injury. Moore v. Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th, 472, 479. 
 
Defendants present
evidence the bouncers did not constitute a dangerous condition, since Adefuye
was only removed because he was drunk and unruly, and Adefuye admitted he never
saw a patron injured while he worked at the bar. Defendants’ Separate Statement
at pgs. 39-40. 
 
The burden shifts
to Adefuye. His separate statement presents evidence that The Doorman, Inc.,
Chompol’s security provider, lacked a license, did not train its security
guards, the guards were not supervised, and Chompol was aware of these
deficiencies. Plaintiff’s separate statement 29-39. This creates a triable
issue of fact as to whether the presence of untrained, unsupervised security
guards at the Surly Goat constituted a dangerous condition. DENIED. 