 Case Number:  23GDCV02489    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 07/12/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV02489
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: VARTOUHIE ACHAKIAN, an individual; v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, A
Delaware Limited Liability Company, and CALSTAR MOTORS INC., a California
Corporation d/b/a CALSTAR MOTORS, and DOES 1-10, inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING – COMPEL RESPONSES
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Vartouhie Achakian, filed a Complaint on 11/22/2023 alleging
three causes of action.
 
The first two causes of action for (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty are alleged against Defendant, Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC.
 
The third cause of action for negligent repair is alleged
against Defendant, Calstar Motors Inc., a California Corporation dba Calstar
Motors.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Plaintiff Vartouhie Achakian (“Plaintiff”) will, and hereby does, move for an
order to compel response, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One (collectively, the “RFPs”).
 
Plaintiff brings this Motion
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.310, and 2031.320, on
the grounds that Defendant failed to provide any responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs,
which seek documents relevant to their claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“SBA”). Thus, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”) to produce responses, without objections,
within 10 calendar days of the Court’s order.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff seeks monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,220.00, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§
2031.310, 2023,030, et seq for Defendant’s misuse and abuse of the discovery
act and its failure to file any responses or production to Plaintiff’s initial
set of RFPs.
 
The Motion is based upon this
Notice, the following Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Declaration of
Luis Serrano, the papers on file, and upon any other matters that may be
presented to the Court at the hearing.
 
No separate statement is being
submitted in support of the instant Motion, as it is not required pursuant to
rule 3.1345(b), of the California Rules of Court. (LAS Decl., ¶ 19.)
 
(Mot. p. 2.)
 
Procedural 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff,
Vartouhie Achakian 
 
Responding Party: Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Serrano Declaration; Proposed
Order
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition
 
Reply: Reply; Serrano Declaration

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Ok
LEGAL
STANDARD – COMPEL RESPONSES, INSPECTION DEMANDS
Within
30 days after service of a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the party to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of
the response to it on the party making the demand, and a copy of the response
on all other parties who have appeared in the action, unless on motion of the
party making the demand, the court has shortened the time for response, or
unless on motion of the party to whom the demand has been directed, the court
has extended the time for response. (CCP § 2031.260(a).)
If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand. (CCP § 2031.300(b).)
If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). (CCP § 2031.300(a).) “The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions
are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240,
and 2031.280. (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result
of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2031.300(a)(1)-(2).)
Unlike a motion to compel further responses, a motion
to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit, and the propounding
party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a
“meet and confer” requirement. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404
citing Weil and Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2006) ¶¶ 8:1137 to 8:1144, pp. 8F-59 to 8F-60, ¶¶ 8:1483 to
8:1489, pp. 8H-29 to hH-30 (Weil & Brown).)
 
ANALYSIS

Plaintiff’s Moving Arguments
Plaintiff
moves this Court for an order compelling full and complete responses, without
objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents Set One, due to
Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s (MBUSA) failure and outright refusal to
provide any responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery requests nor responsive
materials.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Serrano, states that the instant discovery was propounded on January
3, 2024. (Serrano Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) Serrano states that responses were due no
later than February 2, 2024. (Serrano Decl. ¶ 10.) As of May 29, 2024, Serrano
states that Defendant’s counsel has not served any responses nor production to
Plaintiff’s initial set of RFPs (See Serrano Decl. ¶ 13.)
 
Defendant’s
Opposition Arguments
Defendant’s
Opposition appears to argue that either: (1) this hearing be continued for
60-75 days to investigate the issues raised in the motion, or (2) this motion
be denied because Plaintiff failed to properly serve the RFPs to Defendant’s
email authorized for service of pleadings and written discovery; therefore,
Defendant had no obligation to provide the responses Plaintiff now seeks via
its motion.
 
Continuance
Defendant
first argues that the hearing on this motion be continued for 60-75 days.
Defendant argues that the attorney handling the discovery and motions in this
case has recently taken a leave of absence and has not been in communication
with the Defendant’s firm. Defendant thus argues that its counsel has been unable
to discuss the facts of the preparation and service of discovery with the
handling attorney. Defendant argues that a 60-75 day continuance will provide
the time necessary to investigate the status of the discovery in this case and
present all relevant facts to the Court.
 
Defendant also
argues:
 
It is MBUS’ contention that such
circumstances provide the “substantial justification” or are the kind of “circumstances
[which] make the imposition of the sanction unjust” that the California
Legislature had in mind pursuant to Civil Code Section 2030.290(c). Therefore,
the Court should deny Plaintiff’s requested relief – at least for the moment –
and in turn continue the Motion hearing for 60-75 days.
 
(Oppo. p. 2.)
 
Court’s Discussion on Continuance
The
Court does not find Defendant’s request for a 60-75 day continuance availing. 
 
First, Defendant argued that the attorney
handling the discovery and motions in this case recently took a leave of
absence and has not been in communication with Defendant’s law firm. Because of
this, Defendant explains that counsel has been unable to discuss the facts of
the preparation and service of discovery with the handling attorney. The Court
does not find Defendant’s excuse persuasive or compelling. It is up to
Defendant’s counsel to effectively operate its own law firm so that it can
diligently represent its client.
 
Second, Defendant provides no legal
authority for its request for a continuance. Defendant cites § 2030.290(c)
which pertains to interrogatories, and the instant motion pertains to RFPs.
Further, even if this motion pertained to interrogatories, § 2030.290(c)
addresses the issue of sanctions when compelling responses to interrogatories.
CCP § 2030.290(c) does not address what the legal standard is for granting or
denying a continuance on a motion to compel responses to RFPs.
 
Failing to
Properly Serve the RFPs
Defendant
argues that the subject discovery requests were not properly served, thus it
did not owe a response.
 
Defendant argues as follows:
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.251
states: “When a document may be served by mail, express mail, overnight
delivery, or fax transmission, the document may be served electronically under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6”. “Electronic service” under Civ. Proc.
Code section 1010.6 “means service of a document, on a person, by either
electronic transmission or electronic notification. “‘Electronic
transmission,’” in turn, “means the transmission of a document by electronic
means to the electronic service address at or through which a person
receives electronic service.” Section 1010.6(a)(1)(B) (emphasis added).
Similarly, “‘Electronic notification’” means “the notification of the person
that a document is served by sending an electronic message to the electronic
address at or through which the person receives electronic service,
specifying the exact name of the document served, and providing a hyperlink at
which the served document may be viewed and downloaded.” Section
1010.6(a)(1)(C).
 
Electronic service is only effective under
the Code if the service is to the electronic service address which the
receiving party has agreed to be served. That was not done. In this case, the
“electronic service address” is MBUSA@clarkhill.com.” Plaintiff cannot produce
evidence that he served the MBUSA@clarkhill.com email address, the correct
email account. In the Proof of Service dated January 3, 2024, Noel Castellon of
Plaintiff’s law firm declares under penalty of perjury that Castellon served
the subject discovery “BY ELECTORNIC MAIL” to several addresses, none of which
was MBUSA@clarkhill.com. (Hom Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
 
While it is correct that Plaintiff and
MBUSA had an agreement to accept service by e-mail, by and through counsel,
that agreement required Plaintiff to serve any such documents to the email
address “MBUSA@clarkhill.com.” Any documents not served to
“MBUSA@clarkhill.com” falls outside of the e-service agreement and is not
proper service. This is not a valid service address for MBUSA in this case.
(Hom Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel knew that all service
by e-mail must be sent to the email address MBUSA@clarkhill.com. The current
motion to compel, for instance, was served on May 29, 2024, on
MBUSA@clarkhill.com. The agreement of the parties to accept service by e-mail
did not change between January 3, 2024, when Plaintiff served the discovery
requests, and May 29, 2024, when Plaintiff served the present motion.
Plaintiff’s counsel knew and understood what email addresses needed to be
served and failed to serve the correct email box – MBUSA@clarkhill.com – when
they served the subject discovery. That failing is fatal to the instant Motion
because it demonstrates that the subject discovery was not properly served, and
no responses were required. (Hom Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of
Documents were not properly served pursuant to C.C.P. section 2031.080(a), and
MBUSA was not obligated to respond.
 
(Oppo. p. 2-4.)
 
Court’s Discussion on Failing to Properly
Serve the RFPs
Defendant
cites to CRC, rule 2.251 without specifying which subsection of 2.251 it is
citing. It appears as if Defendant is citing to a portion of 2.251(a) which
states in relevant part, “When a document may be served by mail, express mail,
overnight delivery, or fax transmission, the document may be served
electronically under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6[.]” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 2.251(a).)
 
The Court notes that Defendant’s citation
to 2.251(a) is not particularly helpful. Defendant argued that Plaintiff served
the wrong e-mail address, but Defendant’s citation provides no help on how the
Court is determine what the proper service address is for any given party. 
 
Defendant also cited to CCP §
1010.6(a)(1)(B) and 1010.6(a)(1)(C). These citations are also unhelpful to the
Court.
 
As stated in CCP § 1010.6(a):
 
(a) A document may be served
electronically in an action filed with the court as provided in this section,
in accordance with rules adopted pursuant to subdivision (h).
(1) For purposes of this section:
(A) “Electronic service” means
service of a document, on a person, by either electronic transmission or
electronic notification. Electronic service may be performed directly by a
person, including a party, by a person’s agent, including the person’s
attorney, or through an electronic filing service provider, and by a court.
(B) “Electronic transmission” means
the transmission of a document by electronic means to the electronic service
address at or through which a person receives electronic service.
(C) “Electronic notification” means
the notification of the person that a document is served by sending an
electronic message to the electronic address at or through which the person
receives electronic service, specifying the exact name of the document served,
and providing a hyperlink at which the served document may be viewed and
downloaded.
(D) “Electronic filing” means the
electronic transmission to a court of a document presented for filing in
electronic form. For purposes of this section, this definition of electronic
filing concerns the activity of filing and does not include the processing and
review of the document and its entry into the court’s records, which are
necessary for a document to be officially filed.
 
(CCP § 1010.6(a)(1)(A)-(D).)
 
Defendant argues that “Electronic service
is only effective under the Code if the service is to the electronic service
address which the receiving party has agreed to be served.” (Oppo. p. 3.) As a
preliminary matter, the Court points out that Defendant provided no legal
authority for this argument.
 
Defendant then concedes that Plaintiff and
MBUSA had an agreement to accept service by e-mail and that that agreement
required Plaintiff to serve documents to the email address MBUSA@clarkhill.com.
Defendant argues that since Plaintiff’s counsel knew that all service by e-mail
must be sent to MBUSA@clarkhill.com, and since the discovery was not served to
MBUSA@clarkhill.com, the subject discovery was not properly served and no
responses were required. 
 
While Defendant bolded specific portions
of § 1010.6(a)(1)(B) that stated, “to the electronic service address at or
through which a person receives electronic service,” this citation does not
address how the Court is to determine what is the proper electronic service
address.
 
Further, even if the Court were to assume
the truth of Defendant’s argument, which Defendant provided no legal authority
for, that electronic service is only effective under the Code if the service is
to the electronic service address which the receiving party has agreed to be
served, Defendant does not come forward with proof of any type of agreement
that shows where the parties agreed to be electronically served. Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration simply stated in relevant part, “While it is correct that
Plaintiff and MBUSA had an agreement to accept service by email, by and through
counsel, that agreement required Plaintiff to serve any such documents to the
email address “MBUSA@clarkhill.com.”" (Hom Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Opposition also argues that Plaintiff
served the instant motion to the correct email address, as opposed to the
discovery at issue, because Plaintiff’s counsel knew and understood what email
address needed to be served. Opposition argues that even though the instant
motion was served at the proper email address on 5/29/2024, when Plaintiff
previously served the discovery on January 3, 2024, nothing between January 3,
2024 and 5/29/2024 changed with the parties’ agreement, thus, Opposition
appears to be implying that Plaintiff knew the proper service email address all
along. However, this argument doesn’t help the Court assess how it is to
determine what the proper email service address of the parties is. 
 
Therefore, the Court will hear argument on
what Defendant is attempting to assert with respect to CCP § 1010.6(a)(1). 
 
 
Plaintiff’s Reply Arguments
Court’s
Discussion on Improper Address for Opposition
Plaintiff’s
Reply points out that the Opposition was served at the wrong e-service address.
 
Here, the Court finds this argument of no
significance. First, the Reply clearly indicates that it received the
Opposition. Second, the Reply fails to explain how the Opposition being served
on the wrong address warrants the Court to grant Plaintiff’s motion.
 
The Court will consider the Opposition.
 
Court’s Discussion on CCP § 1010.6 and
CRC, rule 2.251
Plaintiff’s
Reply argues that when Defendant, a represented party, filed its Answer on
December 21, 2023, Defendant affirmatively consented to e-service under Section
1010.6 et seq. and Rule 2.251(b)(1)(B). For the reasons explained below, the
Court will explain the problems it had analyzing Plaintiff’s arguments that the
instant discovery was in fact properly served.
 
Plaintiff states in Reply:
 
Rule 2.251(c)(1) of the California Rules
of the Court, expressly provides that “[a] court may require parties to serve
documents electronically in specified civil actions by local rule or court
order, as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and the rules in
this chapter.”
 
(Reply, p. 5.)
 
Here, the Court fails to understand
Plaintiff’s argument. CRC, Rule 2.251(c)(1) states, “ A court may require
parties to serve documents electronically in specified civil actions by local
rule or court order, as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and
the rules in this chapter.” (CRC, Rule 2.251(c)(1).) The Court fails to
understand Plaintiff’s argument because 2.251(c)(1) does not address how the
Court is to determine what the proper email address is for the parties to be
served at. 
 
Plaintiff also stated in Reply:
 
Section 1010.6 of the Code of Civil
Procedure provides that “documents filed by represented parties in all limited,
unlimited, and complex civil actions must be filed electronically
and allow for service electronically, unless the Court excuses
parties from doing so. Although not required, self-represented parties are
encouraged to participate in electronic filing and service. If a party with a
fee waiver files documents electronically, that party is exempt from the fees
and costs associated with electronic filing.” Thus, contrary to MBUSA’s
position, Rule 2.251 et seq. confirms that service of Plaintiff’s initial set
of discovery was properly on effected on December 21, 2023. (Serrano Decl., ¶
7, Ex. 1.)
 
(Reply, p. 5.)
 
Here, again the Court fails to understand
Plaintiff’s argument. First, Plaintiff does not specify which subsection of
1010.6 that Plaintiff is quoting from, and the Court is unclear as to which
subsection of 1010.6 Plaintiff is quoting from. Further, whatever legal
authority Plaintiff is attempting to cite, Plaintiff’s argument does not
address the issue of how the Court is to determine the proper electronic
service address for the parties.
 
Plaintiff also stated in Reply:
 
Section 1010.6 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, made effective January 1, 2023, works in conjunction with Rule 2.251
of the California Rules of the Court, which, together, unequivocally authorizes
electronic service as an appropriate medium of service for parties that have
appeared in action and are represented by counsel for which the Court requires
mandatory e-filing under 1010.6(h), without requiring any prior consent. In
fact, 1010.6(b)(2), expressly confirms that “[a] person represented by counsel,
who has appeared in an action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of
a notice or document that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight
delivery, or facsimile transmission.” Notably, the statutory scheme’s only
reference to prior consent to e-service is embodied in subdivision (c)(1-2).
However, this is limited to “unrepresented part[ies],” which MBUSA’s Answer
confirms it is not.
 
In any event 1010.6(c)(3)(ii), provides
that affirmative consent to e-service of even non-represented parties can be
established “through electronic means with the court or the court's electronic
filing service provider, and concurrently providing the party's electronic
address with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic service.”
 
(Reply, p. 5, ln. 19-28, - p. 6. ln. 1-4.)
 
The Court has several problems with
Plaintiff’s arguments.
 
First, Plaintiff cites to § 1010.6(b)(2)
which states, “ A person represented by counsel, who has appeared in an
action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a notice or document
that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile
transmission.” (Ibid.) Problematic with Plaintiff’s argument is that its
citation does not address how the Court is to determine the proper service
address of the parties.
 
Second, Plaintiff cites to § 1010.6(c)(1)-(2).
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s citation to § 1010.6(c) availing. Although
Plaintiff argues that the statutory scheme’s only reference to prior consent to
e-service is embodied in 1010.6(c)(1)-(2), that does not appear to be the case.
CCP § 1010.6(c) “applies to electronic service by consent of an unrepresented
person in a civil action.” Here, the Defendant that Opposed this motion is not
an unrepresented person. Further, while Plaintiff argues the only reference to
prior consent to e-service is embodied in § 1010.6(c)(1)-(2), 1010.6(b)(3)
seems to be more on point as it pertains to represented parties and what must
be done before first serving electronically.
 
Therefore, overall with respect to the
Reply’s arguments on  p. 5, ln. 19-28, -
p. 6. ln. 1-4 , the Court does not find the arguments availing because it does
not provide legal authority that addresses the issue that is before this Court,
i.e., how the Court is to determine what the proper service address is.
 
Further, while the Reply on page 5, ln.
19-28 cites § 1010.6(b)(2), the Reply fails to cite § 1010.6(b)(3), which
appears as if it would have been helpful to the Court. 
 
As stated in § 1010.6(b):
 
(b) (1) This subdivision applies
to mandatory electronic service. The court may order electronic service on a
person represented by counsel who has appeared in an action or proceeding.
(2) A person represented by counsel,
who has appeared in an action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of
a notice or document that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight
delivery, or facsimile transmission.
(3) Before first serving a
represented person electronically, the person effecting service shall confirm
the appropriate electronic service address for the counsel being served.
(4) A person represented by counsel
shall, upon the request of any person who has appeared in an action or
proceeding and who provides an electronic service address, electronically serve
the requesting person with any notice or document that may be served by mail,
express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile transmission.
 
(CCP § 1010.6(b)(1)-(4).)
 
Therefore, 1010.6(b)(2) appears relevant
because the Defendant opposing this motion seems to have appeared on 12/21/2023
when its counsel filed an Answer. Further, what the Reply failed to cite to was
1010.6(b)(3) which stated, “Before first serving a represented person
electronically, the person effecting service shall confirm the appropriate
electronic service address for the counsel being served.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Reply does not address § 1010.6(b)(3).
Under § 1010.6(b)(3), it appears as if Plaintiff was to confirm the appropriate
electronic service address for the counsel being served; however, the Reply
does not address this. The Court will hear argument. 
 
Reply also states:
 
Rule 2.251(b)(1)(B) sets forth the means
by which a party may manifest express consent to eservice, specifically
providing that “[m]anifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with
the court or the court's electronic filing service provider, and concurrently
providing the party’s electronic service address with that consent for the
purpose of receiving electronic service. A party or other person may manifest
affirmative consent by serving notice of consent to all parties and other
persons and either: (i) Agreeing to the terms of service with an electronic
filing service provider, which clearly states that agreement constitutes
consent to receive electronic service; or (ii) Filing Consent to Electronic
Service and Notice of Electronic Service Address (form EFS-005-CV). (See also,
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.253, subds. (b)(1)-(6) [conditions for mandatory
e-filing set forth by local rule.)
 
Here, because Defendant, a represented
party, electronically filed its Answer, on December 21, 2023, it has
affirmatively consented to e-service under Section 1010.6 et seq. and Rule
2.251(b)(1)(B). (Serrano Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 1.) Moreover, Plaintiff properly
effectuated service on Defendant’s counsel of record after Defendant’s Answer
was electronically filed with Court. (Serrano Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.) Moreover,
Plaintiff’s electronic service of the RFPs was made on the attorneys listed on
the first page of Defendant’s Answer. (Id. ¶ 9.) What’s more, Defendant failed
to list their electronic service address of MBUSA@clarkhill.com on their both
their email when they electronically served their Answer on Plaintiff’s counsel
and the first page of the Answer itself
 
Consequently, Plaintiff’s service of RFPs unequivocally
occurred electronically on January 3, 2024; rendering Defendant’s tactics to
delay discovery as a bad faith stratagem designed to obstruct Plaintiff’s
efforts to conduct meaningful discovery.
 
(Reply, p. 6, ln. 5-24.)
 
The Court has several issues with the
arguments asserted in the Reply on page 6, lines 5-24. 
 
Plaintiff cites to CRC, rule 2.251(b)(1(B)
to argue that by Defendant electronically filing an Answer, and by Defendant
listing several email addresses on said Answer, the email addresses listed on
the Answer demonstrate that Defendant affirmatively consented to be
electronically served documents at the email addresses listed on said Answer.
The Court does not find this argument availing because 2.251(b)(1)(B) does not
say anything about how the email addresses listed on an Answer determine where
a party can receive electronic service.
 
For the sake of clarity, the Court will
cite CRC, rule 2.251(b) in full below:
 
(b) Electronic service by express consent
(1)  A party or other person
indicates that the party or other person agrees to accept electronic service
by:
(A)  Serving a notice on all parties
and other persons that the party or other person accepts electronic service and
filing the notice with the court. The notice must include the electronic
service address at which the party or other person agrees to accept service; or
(B)  Manifesting affirmative consent
through electronic means with the court or the court's electronic filing
service provider, and concurrently providing the party's electronic service
address with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic service. A
party or other person may manifest affirmative consent by serving notice of
consent to all parties and other persons and either:
(i)  Agreeing to the terms of service
with an electronic filing service provider, which clearly states that agreement
constitutes consent to receive electronic service; or
(ii)  Filing Consent to Electronic
Service and Notice of Electronic Service Address (form EFS-005-CV).
(2)  A party or other person that has
consented to electronic service under (1) and has used an electronic filing
service provider to serve and file documents in a case consents to service on
that electronic filing service provider as the designated agent for service for
the party or other person in the case, until such time as the party or other
person designates a different agent for service.
 
(CRC, rule 2.251(b)(1)-(2).)
 
Although Plaintiff’s Reply argues that
2.251(b) shows that Defendant can be served at the email addresses listed on
the Answer because the Answer was electronically filed, the Court fails to see
how Plaintiff arrives at such a conclusion based on 2.251(b).
 
Therefore, both parties should be prepared
to address all aspects of CRC, rule 2.251(b) at the hearing. For example, both
parties should be prepared to address if 2.251(b)(1) or 2.251(b)(2) is
applicable here. Further, if the parties think 2.251(b)(1) is applicable, they
need to explain if 2.251(b)(1) has been met by either 2.251(b)(1)(A) or
2.251(b)(1)(B). 
 
Further, the Court notes that eCourt lists
counsel for MBUSA as Brian Hom. On eCourt, Brian Hom’s email address is listed
as bhom@clarkhill.com. The discovery at issue here was in fact served at
bhom@clarkhill.com. CRC, Rule 2.251(b)(1)(B) states, “Manifesting affirmative
consent through electronic means with the court or the court's electronic
filing service provider, and concurrently providing the party's electronic
service address with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic
service.” Here, it would be helpful for the Court if Defendant came forward
with any documents it filed/signed with the electronic service provider when
initially filing its Answer. The instant discovery was served at the email
address that Defendant’s counsel provided on eCourt; however, it is unclear as
to what email address Defendant’s counsel provided to the electronic filing
service provider as the email address that it consents to for the purpose of
receiving electronic service. Further, the parties should be prepared to
address 2.251(b)(2) because (b)(2) addresses how a party can consent to service
on the electronic filing service provider. Likewise, Defendant alleged it had
an agreement to be electronically served at MBUSA@clarkhill.com; therefore,
Defendant should be prepared to come forward with this alleged agreement.
 
Court’s Discussion on Additional Arguments
in Reply
On
page 2 of the Reply, Plaintiff points out that nowhere in the Opposition nor
the accompanying Brian Hom Declaration does MBUSA claim it was not in
possession or had not received Plaintiff’s discovery. Reply points out how the
declaration only points out that service was improper. Reply argues that it is
thus safe to assume that MBUSA received the discovery. 
 
The Court notes that while it is true that
the Opposition and the Hom Declaration fail to state that it never received the
discovery, the problem with the Reply’s argument is it fails to explain how
this argument is legally relevant. This argument seems to be rooted in the
common sense argument that Defendant must have received the discovery because
Defendant’s declaration did not state that it did not receive the discovery.
However, this does not help the Court because Plaintiff does not explain how this
argument is legally relevant for determining the ruling on this motion.
 
On page 2 of the Reply, Plaintiff also
argues that MBUSA cited no applicable statutory authority to support its
position that it did not have to respond to the discovery because the service
address was improper. Here, the Court will hear argument. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING OVERALL
The
Court will hear argument. Both parties should be prepared to address all issues
the Court noted in its Analysis section. Both parties should be prepared to
address CCP § 1010.6(b)(3) and CRC, Rule 2.251(b)(1)-(2). Further, both parties
should be prepared to come forward with any alleged agreements on service, or
any documents filed/signed with the Court’s electronic filing service provider
that either party would need to prove its argument.
 
If the Court were to find that the instant
discovery was properly served, the Court notes that Opposition did not address
the merits of Plaintiff’s motion. Therefore, it would appear as if the Court
could compel responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, since Defendant has not provided any responses, much less timely
responses. Further, Defendant’s argument on a request for a continuance is
unavailing.
 
But to take a step back for a moment from
the minutiae of e-service procedures, the Court is aware that the parties
before the Court handle matters together frequently. The parties appear in this
Department almost daily on various matters. 
 
It is well accepted in the case law and
elsewhere that discovery is primarily meant to be dealt with by counsel,
corresponding and discussing the issues that arise with each other in good
faith and with a spirit of professionalism. 
 
To require the parsing of various statutes
and Rules of Court regarding electronic service on discovery matters such as
this one—if disputes like this one became commonplace—would literally bring the
calendar in this Department to a grinding halt. 

 
For perspective, imagine a member of the
public reading this tentative decision. Besides having their eyes glaze over,
that imagined member of the public would perhaps justifiably ask themselves
what was going on in the courts the taxpayers were funding? Thirteen pages of
small type about email addresses?
 
In any event, in the interests of
efficiency, the parties are encouraged to attempt, as best they can, to talk to
each other and work out issues like service and confirming receipt of discovery
requests and other items with professional courtesies such as a follow up
telephone call or email. Simple follow-up steps like these could potentially
save the parties and the Court unnecessary expenditure of resources on
contretemps such as the one presented in this motion.
 
 
Sanctions - Inspection Demands
In relevant part, § 2031.300(c) states as follows:
Except as provided
in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(CCP §
2031.300(c).)
 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,220.00.

Plaintiff bases its sanctions request on the
following:
• Draft Plaintiff s meet and confer letter
regarding Defendant’s lack of responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One. – .5 of an hour 
• Draft Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion and
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One. – 3 hours 
• Draft Declaration in Support of
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. – 1 hour 
• Anticipated time to review Defendant’s
Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, and Draft Plaintiff’s Reply Brief. – 2.5
hours; 
• Anticipated time to prepare for, and
attend, the hearing regarding Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One. – 1 hour; 
• Filing fee - $60.00
(Serrano Decl. ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff’s counsel also states his billable rate is
$395.00 per hour. (See Serrano Decl. ¶ 17.)
 