 Case Number:  23GDCV00332    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 07/12/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00332
Trial Date: 01/27/2025
Case Name: GOHAR THOMAS v. ONNI 700 BRAND LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a limited
partnership
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
ONNI 700 BRAND LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (“Defendant”) will and hereby does move this
court for an order permitting the filing of a Cross-Complaint against
third-party CITIBANK, N.A. (“Cross-Defendant”). Accordingly, a copy of the
proposed Cross-Complaint is attached as “Exhibit A” to the Declaration
of Michael A. Diaz.
Defendant seeks leave to file the Cross-Complaint
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 426.50, 428.10, and 428.50. This Motion
is made on the grounds that the proposed Cross-Complaint arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as alleged in
Plaintiff GOHAR THOMAS’ Complaint. Moreover, the Cross-Complaint was previously
not filed due to Defendant’s oversight, and Cross-Defendant has recently
rejected Defendant’s tender for indemnity and defense. Lastly, filing the
proposed Cross-Complaint will serve the interests of justice and promote
efficient resolution of all claims and defenses in a single civil action.
This Motion is based on this Notice of Motion, the
supporting Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Declaration of Michael A.
Diaz, the attached proposed Cross-Complaint, the papers and pleadings on file,
and such other or further argument or evidence as may be presented to the Court
at or before the hearing.”
(Mot. p. 1-2.)
BACKGROUND
On
02/17/2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action against Defendant, Onni 700
Brand Limited Partnership. The Complaint alleges causes of action for general
negligence and premises liability.
The allegations pertain to an incident wherein
Plaintiff allegedly slipped and fell due to an uneven floor surface while using
the common entry walkway to access the subject premises.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: Defendant, Onni 700 Brand Limited Partnership
Responding Party: No Opposition
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order

Opposition Papers: No Opposition

Reply Papers: No Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1 013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
ANALYSIS
428.10
Under
CCP § 428.10:
A party against whom a cause of action has
been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint
setting forth either or both of the following:
(a) Any cause of action he has
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint
against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with
Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
(b) Any cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or
(2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
(CCP § 428.10(a)-(b).)
Defendant, Onni 700 Brand Limited Partnership, seeks
leave to file a cross-complaint against Citibank, N.A.,, an entity which  is not currently a party to this action, for implied
indemnity, equitable indemnity, equitable contribution, express contractual
indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory relief.
Defendant moves under § 428.10(b), which requires the
cause of action asserted in the cross-complaint to arise out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him.
Here, Defendant explains how Plaintiff’s allegations
arise from a slip-and-fall injury due to an alleged dangerous condition at
Defendant’s property. Defendant’s counsel states that Citibank, N.A. was a
tenant at the subject property and contends that Citibank is liable for any
negligent use and/or maintenance at the subject property. (Diaz Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant
explains that it seeks to cross-complain against Citibank because it will seek
indemnity from Citibank should Plaintiff prevail on her Complaint, as well as
recovery for the cost of defense. (Diaz Decl. ¶ 4.)
The Court finds Defendant’s arguments availing that
the causes of action in the proposed cross-complaint arise out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action brought against Defendant. 
Further, “Cross-Complaints for comparative equitable indemnity
would appear virtually always transactionally related to the main action.” (Time
for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development Co. (1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)
Section 428.50
Under
CCP § 428.50:
(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.
(CCP § 428.50(a)-(c).)
Here, Defendant does not
meet the requirements of § 428.50(a) because Defendant filed its Answer on
4/24/2023. Further, Defendant does not meet the requirements of § 428.50(b)
because this Court already set a date for trial.
Therefore, Defendant here
must obtain leave to file the proposed cross-complaint under § 428.50(c). 
CCP § 428.50(c) indicates
that leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action. 
Defendant argues that the
interests of justice warrant leave to file the cross-complaint because if
Plaintiff was in fact injured, Defendant argues that Cross-Defendant’s
negligent use and/or maintenance of the subject property was the substantial
intervening cause of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Defendant also argues that leave
to file the cross-complaint will allow Plaintiff’s entire Complaint to be
resolved in a single case. Defendant’s counsel’s declaration further states
that Defendant did not previously file the cross-complaint due to Defendant’s
oversight. (Diaz Decl. ¶ 5.) Further, Diaz states that the proposed
cross-defendant recently rejected Defendant’s tender for indemnity and defense.
(See Diaz Decl. ¶ 5.)
This Court finds that
Defendant has demonstrated that leave may be granted in the interest of
justice.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED. 
The Court reminds
Defendant of the service obligations set forth in CCP § 428.60:
A cross-complaint shall be served on each
of the parties in an action in the following manner:
(1) If a party has not appeared in
the action, a summons upon the cross-complaint shall be issued and served upon
him in the same manner as upon commencement of an original action.
(2) If a party has appeared in the action,
the cross-complaint shall be served upon his attorney, or upon the party if he
has appeared without an attorney, in the manner provided for service of summons
or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title
14 of Part 2 of this code.
(CCP § 428.60(1)-(2).)
 
 
 
 


