 Case Number:  23GDCV00969    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 07/12/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00969
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: RENE HERNANDEZ v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware Corporation,
BLUESKY DIVERSIFIED, INC. dba PUENTE HILLS FORD, a California Corporation, and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
BACKGROUND
On
05/10/2023, Plaintiff Rene Hernandez filed a Complaint. The first two causes of
action – (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and (2)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty – are alleged
against Defendant Ford Motor Company.
The third cause of action for negligent repair is
alleged against Bluesky Diversified, Inc., dba Puente Hills Ford.
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that on January 26,
2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Ford Motor Company
regarding a 2021 Ford Explorer. 
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Plaintiff,
will, and hereby does, move the Court for an order compelling further responses
to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories and for monetary sanctions in the amount
of $2,695.00 against Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY and its attorneys of record,
Mortenson Taggart Adams LLP.
This
motion is made on the grounds that Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY has not
provided Code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories
numbers 45-48, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300,
subdivision (e) and 2023.030, subdivision (g).)
This
motion is based upon the Memorandum of Points and Authorities attached hereto,
the Declaration of Zachary Powell, the Separate Statement of Issues in Dispute,
the papers and records on file, and upon such oral and documentary evidence
that may be presented at the hearing on this matter.”
(Mot.
p. 1.)
Procedural
Moving
Party: Plaintiff, Rene Hernandez
Responding
Party: Defendant, Ford Motor Company
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok 
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed Order; Powell Declaration
Opposition
Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Biemann Declaration
Reply
Papers: Reply

LEGAL
STANDARD - COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is
itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  The
Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,”
and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons
having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence,
description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document,
electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”
On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply:
(1)   An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete.
(2)   An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.
(3)   An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.
(CCP § 2030.300(a).
If a timely motion to compel has been filed,
the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or failure fully
to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58
Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
“While the party propounding interrogatories may have
the burden of filing a motion to compel if it finds the answers it receives
unsatisfactory, the burden of justifying any objection and failure to respond
remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541 citing Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
Furthermore, to the extent there is any doubt in
whether these records should be discoverable, California’s liberal approach to
discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2
Cal.3d 161, 173.)
The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following:
(1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered.
(2) An exercise of
the party’s option to produce writings.
(3) An objection to
the particular interrogatory.
 
(CCP §2030.210(a).)
PROCEDURAL
ANALYSIS
45-Day
Requirement
“Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (CCP
§2030.300(c).)
Here, Plaintiff timely filed this motion in accordance
with the parties agreement to extend the deadline to file this motion. (See
Powell Decl. ¶11.)
Meet and Confer
“A
motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2030.300(b)(1).)
Here, this requirement was met. (See Powell Decl. ¶¶
5-11.)
INTERROGATORIES AND RESPONSES AT ISSUE


SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 45.

At the time of release for the 2021 Ford Explorer
vehicles, state your anticipated range for repairs per thousand vehicles sold
(R/1000). 
RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY 45:

Ford objects to this Interrogatory because it is
overly broad, unduly burdensome, and seeks information that is irrelevant
because it is not limited to a relevant timeframe, any specific claim or
repair, to Plaintiff, or the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint, or to any
specific or alleged malfunction, problem, or concern, or to the allegations in
this case. Moreover, this Interrogatory contains no subject matter for any
anticipated repairs per thousand vehicles sold and contains no specific
identification of any of the multiple vehicle systems contained in the 2021
Ford Explorer, which are in turn comprised of hundreds, if not thousands, of
individual components and parts. Further, this Interrogatory is not limited to
any of the specific components or parts at issue in this case for which
information regarding anticipated range of repair, or repair rate per thousand
vehicles, is sought.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 46.
State the repairs per thousand vehicles sold (R/1000)
for 2021 Ford Explorer vehicles.
RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY 46:

Ford objects to this Interrogatory because it is
overly broad, unduly burdensome, and seeks information that is irrelevant
because it is not limited to a relevant timeframe, to any vehicle or customer,
any specific claim, any alleged malfunction, problem or concern, to Plaintiff,
or the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Moreover, this Interrogatory
contains no subject matter for any anticipated repairs per thousand vehicles
sold and contains no specific identification of any of the multiple vehicle systems
contained in the 2021 Ford Explorer, which are in turn comprised of hundreds,
if not thousands, of individual components and parts, much less to any of the
specific components or parts at issue in this case for which information
regarding repairs per thousand vehicles is sought. Further, a customer could
require vehicle repair for various reasons, including those unrelated to Ford,
or could be due to the improper use, maintenance or servicing of the vehicle.
Therefore, the circumstances giving rise to repairs to other vehicles are
wholly unrelated and are dissimilar to those in this litigation.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 47.
Identify in order the five symptoms with the highest repairs per thousand
(R/1000) for 2021 Ford Explorer vehicles, and the corresponding repairs per
thousand. 
RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY 47:

Ford objects to this Interrogatory because it is
overly broad, unduly burdensome, and seeks information that is irrelevant in
that it is not limited to a relevant timeframe, to any vehicle or customer, any
specific claim, any alleged malfunction, problem, or concern, or to Plaintiff
or the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Moreover, this Interrogatory
contains no subject matter for any anticipated symptoms of repairs per thousand
vehicles sold and contains no specific identification of any of the multiple
vehicle systems contained in the 2021 Ford Explorer, which are in turn
comprised of hundreds, if not thousands, of individual components and parts.
Further, this Interrogatory is not limited to any of the specific components or
parts at issue in this case for which information regarding the highest repairs
per thousand vehicles by symptom is sought. Ford also objects to this
Interrogatory as vague because symptom is not defined or related to a specific
allegation in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
Further, a customer could require vehicle repair for
various reasons, including those unrelated to Ford, or could be due to the
improper use, maintenance or servicing of the vehicle. Therefore, the
circumstances giving rise to repairs to other vehicles are wholly unrelated and
are dissimilar to those in this litigation.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 48.

Identify in order the five components with the highest
repairs per thousand (R/1000) for 2021 Ford Explorer vehicles, and the
corresponding repairs per thousand. 
RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY 48:

Ford objects to this Interrogatory because it is
overly broad, unduly burdensome, and seeks information that is irrelevant in
that it is not limited to a relevant timeframe, to any vehicle or customer, any
specific claim, any alleged malfunction, problem or concern, or to Plaintiff or
the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Moreover, this Interrogatory contains
no subject matter for any anticipated repairs per thousand vehicles sold and
contains no specific identification of any of the multiple vehicle systems
contained in the 2021 Ford Explorer, which are in turn comprised of hundreds,
if not thousands, of individual components and parts. Further, this
Interrogatory is not limited to any of the specific components or parts at
issue in this case for which information regarding the highest repairs per
thousand vehicles is sought. Further, a customer could require vehicle repair
for various reasons, including those unrelated to Ford, or could be due to the
improper use, maintenance or servicing of the vehicle. Therefore, the
circumstances giving rise to repairs to other vehicles are wholly unrelated and
are dissimilar to those in this litigation.
SUBSTANTIVE ANALYSIS
Upon
reading Plaintiff’s motion and separate statement, it is entirely unclear as to
what information SROGs 45-48 are requesting. All of the SROGs at issue contains
terms and phrases the meanings of which are unclear to this Court.
However, that being said, Plaintiff does not have the
burden to first establish good cause.
“While the party propounding interrogatories may have
the burden of filing a motion to compel if it finds the answers it receives
unsatisfactory, the burden of justifying any objection and failure to respond
remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541 citing Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
While a motion to compel a further response to an inspection
demand requires good cause, a motion to compel a further response to an
interrogatory does not. (Compare CCP § 2031.310(b)(1) to CCP § 2030.300(b).)
In Opposition, in order to justify its objections,
Defendant argues:
None of these Interrogatories are limited
to Plaintiff, to his 2021 Ford Explorer, to any specific claim or repair, to
any specific or alleged malfunction, problem or concern, or to the allegations
in Plaintiff’s Complaint. These Interrogatories contain no subject matter for
any anticipated repairs or symptoms of repairs per thousand vehicles sold and
contain no specific identification of any of the multiple vehicle systems
contained in the 2021 Ford Explorer. Rather, they seek information about the
entire Ford Explorer, which is comprised of hundreds of systems and
sub-systems, and thousands of individual components and parts, much less any of
the specific components or parts that were repaired on Plaintiff’s Explorer.
Systems, components, and parts that were never repaired on Plaintiff’s vehicle,
and which are not at issue in his Complaint, are plainly not relevant, as
information about them is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible information.
(Oppo. p. 7.)
As a preliminary matter, because the requests in the
SROGs are difficult to understand, the Opposition’s objections on irrelevancy
and overbreadth seem persuasive: the Court can’t even understand the requests. 
While moving Plaintiff did not have the initial burden
to establish good cause, the Court points Plaintiff to CRC 3.1345(c):
A separate statement is a separate
document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the
information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses to it that are at issue. The separate statement must be full and
complete so that no person is required to review any other document in order to
determine the full request and the full response. Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference. The separate statement
must include-for each discovery request (e.g., each interrogatory, request for
admission, deposition question, or inspection demand) to which a further
response, answer, or production is requested-the following:
…
(4)  If necessary, the text of all
definitions, instructions, and other matters required to understand each
discovery request and the responses to it;
(CRC, rule 3.1345(c)(4).)
A motion to compel further
responses to interrogatories must be accompanied by a separate statement. (See
CRC, rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
Here, Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement did not provide the information necessary for the Court to
understand each request at issue.
Further, to the extent
that this Court can decipher these requests, Defendant’s argument – that the
requests are not limited to a specific claim or repair, to any specific or
alleged malfunction, problem or concern, or to the allegations in Plaintiff’s
Complaint – seems to justify Defendant’s objections on irrelevancy and overly
broad. 
In Reply, Plaintiff
argues:
Interrogatories 45-48 would be probative
of whether Ford had reason to know that its 2021 Ford Explorer vehicles were
experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs regarding the same
problems that Plaintiff experienced with their vehicle. Not only would this
information be relevant to demonstrating that a defect likely exists in
Plaintiff’s vehicle, but it would also show that Ford failed to provide remedy
to Plaintiff even though it knew that these vehicles were suffering from
widespread warranty problems. Because courts have recognized that a
manufacturer’s decision refusing to provide remedy to a consumer that is “made
without the use of reasonably available information germane to that decision is
not a reasonable, good faith decision” and warrants a civil penalty, the
information regarding Ford’s knowledge of similar widespread warranty issues is
relevant to proving that a civil penalty is appropriate. (Lukather v. General
Motors, LLC, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th at p. 1051, italics added; see also Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154 [holding that the use of
“other vehicle” evidence at trial “certainly was probative and not
prejudicial.”].)
(Reply p. 2.)
Again, the Court is not
entirely clear as to what Plaintiff is trying to argue. Plaintiff mentions that
the requests would be probative to whether Ford had reason to know that its
2021 Ford Explorer vehicles were experiencing the same problems that Plaintiff
experienced, but the Court fails to understand Plaintiff’s argument because
these requests don’t specifically seek information about the problems that
Plaintiff’s car was experiencing; it appears as if these requests could easily
encompass problems that are not the same as the problems at issue in this case.
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court’s tentative is to DENY Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to SROGs
45-48. Defendant appeared to justify its objections. However, the Court will
hear argument from the parties since the requests were difficult to decipher.
Sanctions
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP
§2030.300(d).)
 
“The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
 
Movant request monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,695.00
against Defendant Ford Motor Company and its attorney of record, Mortenson
Taggart Adamas LLP.
Plaintiff’s counsel, Powell, explains its sanctions
request as follows:
a. I spent 2.2 hours drafting the instant
motion, separate statement, proposed order, notice of motion, and declaration,
at my normal billing rate of $425.00 per hour, for a total of $935.00. 
b. It is also reasonably anticipated that
I will spend an additional two hours reviewing Defendant’s opposition and
drafting a reply at my normal billing rate of $425.00 per hour, for a total of
$850.00. 
c. Finally, it is reasonably anticipated I
will spend an additional two hours preparing for and attending the scheduled
hearing on this matter at my normal billing rate of $425.00, for a total of
$850.00 
d. In all, legal fees will total
$2,635.00. 
13. Our office will be forced to spend
$60.00 in filing the instant motion
(Powell Decl. ¶¶ 12a – 13.)
 
Opposition argues that sanctions against
Ford are not warranted because the responses and objections were proper and
appropriate, and thus it acted with substantial justification to render an
imposition of a sanction unjust.
 
The Court will hear argument on sanctions.