  Case Number:  21PSCV00702    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Cecilia  Robledo, et al. v. Jenny Milner, et al.  Defendant  Peter Elias’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Peter Elias’ motion for judgment on the  pleadings as to Plaintiff Rachel Neu. The Court hereby dismisses Plaintiff  Rachel Neu from this action.               Defendant Peter Elias is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a dispute regarding collection of rents. On August 30,  2021, plaintiff Cecilia Robledo, trustee of the Luis M. Elias Trust, filed this  action against defendants Jenny Milner, Peter Elias (Elias), Mario Garcia, and Does  1 through 20. On March 30, 2022, plaintiffs Sheila Robles, aka Cecilia Robledo  (Robledo), and Rachel Neu (Neu), co-trustees of the Luis M. Elias Trust  (collectively, Plaintiffs), filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against  the same defendants, alleging causes of action for conversion, breach of  fiduciary duty, money had and received, and action for rent. On July 27, 2022,  Elias answered the SAC. On March 20, 2023, defendant Jenny Millner was  dismissed from this action.  On October 7, 2024, Elias moved for judgment on the pleadings. On October  17, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the motion. Elias did not reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD  A defendant may move for judgment on the  pleadings when the court lacks jurisdiction over the cause of action or the  complaint does not state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action  against the defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).) The issue of  a plaintiff’s standing may be raised at any time during the proceedings. (Californians for Disability Rts. v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 233.)   A  motion for judgment on the pleadings tests the legal sufficiency of the  complaint and is analyzed in all material respects as though it were a  demurrer. (Wise v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132  Cal.App.4th 725, 738; Kapsimallis v. Allstate Insurance Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 667, 672.)  “A motion for  judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and  hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters  that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.  (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [citations omitted].)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  Elias’ request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code,  § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court  takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence,  content and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it  does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in  those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.  App. 5th 389, 400.) But, where there is only one reasonable interpretation of  the contents of a document, the Court may take judicial notice of the contents  as well. (See Baldwin v. AAA Northern California, Nevada & Utah Ins.  Exchange (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 545, 552.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 439, subdivision (a), Elias  was required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs before moving for judgment on  the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a).) The Court finds Elias’  efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Palacios Decl., ¶ 2, subd. (a).)  Standing  Lack  of standing is a jurisdictional defect that requires dismissal and also  constitutes a failure to state a cause of action. (Cummings v. Stanley (2009) 177  Cal.App.4th 493, 501.)  Elias moves for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that  Plaintiff Neu lacks standing. Elias contends Neu is not a proper co-trustee  because the trust instrument itself does not provide any procedure for the  appointment of additional or alternate co-trustees, and a judgment in a  different court appointed Robledo as the sole trustee. Elias contends Neu was  not properly appointed as co-trustee under the trust instrument and that the  unanimous beneficiary agreement is insufficient. Elias contends Neu’s  appointment does not comply with Probate Code section 15660, subdivision (a),  because the trust does not name a successor trustee to fill the vacancy, and  appointment by unanimous written agreement applies only if the trust instrument  does not provide otherwise; therefore, the only other option would be court  appointment, which has not happened here. Elias contends Neu lacks standing under  Probate Code section 16429 because Neu was not validly appointed.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the SAC unequivocally alleges Neu  is a co-trustee and that the allegation regarding the beneficiaries unanimously  appointing Neu as co-trustee is not essential to the claim that she is a  co-trustee. Plaintiffs contend that Elias’ argument regarding the removal of a  prior co-trustee, Jennie Milner, is unnecessary here. Plaintiffs note that  Elias’ answer to the SAC does not deny that Neu was a co-trustee, nor does it  list lack of standing as an affirmative defense. Plaintiffs also note that  Elias is suing Neu as a co-trustee in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint.  The Court agrees with Elias that the SAC fails to demonstrate that  Neu is a properly appointed trustee, The Court notes that Elias’ moving papers  inaccurately quote Probate Code section 15660, subdivision (a). That code provision  reads, “If the trust has no trustee or if the trust instrument requires a  vacancy in the office of a cotrustee [sic] to be filled, the vacancy  shall be filled as provided in this section.” (Probate Code, § 15660, subd.  (a).) Subdivision (b) states that any vacancies should be filled per the terms  of the trust instrument, while subdivision (c) states that a trust company may  fill the vacancy on agreement of all the adult beneficiaries if the vacancy is  not filled per the terms of the trust instrument. (Id., § 15660, subds.  (b), (c).) Subdivision (d) then provides that if neither of those methods  apply, an interested person or named trustee may petition the court to fill the  vacancy. (Id., § 15660, subd. (d).)  Plaintiffs allege the beneficiaries unanimously appointed Neu as a  co-trustee. (See SAC,  ¶ 3.) However,  this unanimous appointment is not a statutorily authorized method, nor does the  subject trust agreement provide for such an appointment method. (See SAC, ¶ 3,  Ex. A.) To the extent Plaintiffs rely on the requirement that the Court assumes  the truth of all allegations in the SAC on this motion, that assumption does  not apply if there are contradictory statements made in an attachment to the  SAC, such as the subject trust instrument here. (Moran v. Prime Healthcare  Mgmt., Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1146 [the  court gives precedence to facts contained in exhibits attached to the complaint  over inconsistent allegations].) Since the SAC alleges that the unanimous  beneficiaries of the trust stipulated to add Neu as a co-trustee, this  allegation is taken as true. (See SAC, ¶ 3.)  However, the attached trust does not provide  for the appointment of a trustee by unanimous agreement of the beneficiaries  and it is not a statutorily authorized method. (See ibid.; SAC, ¶ 3, Ex.  A; Probate Code, § 15660.) Additionally, the SAC does not allege that Neu is a  trust company that may be appointed by agreement of all the beneficiaries.  (Probate Code, § 15660, subd. (c).) Thus, Neu lacks standing.  Furthermore, Elias correctly contends the trust instrument does  not explicitly provide for Neu’s appointment as a co-trustee, as it does not  name Neu as a co-trustee or provide the procedure by which Neu was appointed as  a co-trustee. (SAC, Ex. A.) The procedure for appointing successor trustees under  the subject trust instrument only addresses what happens if a co-trustee  predeceases the trustor or predeceases the completion of the trust instrument,  and provides that the administration of the trust would pass to the  representatives of the estate of the predeceased co-trustee. (SAC, Ex. A.) Additionally,  the SAC does not allege facts demonstrating Neu was appointed as a trustee by  court order. (Probate Code, § 15660, subd. (d).)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Peter Elias’ motion for judgment on the  pleadings as to Plaintiff Rachel Neu. The Court hereby dismisses Plaintiff  Rachel Neu from this action.               Defendant Peter Elias is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.