  Case Number:  24STCV04105    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  76  Moving Defendant expressly acknowledges that the parties did not meet and confer, but Defendant did not present a declaration reflecting an attempt to meet and confer in accordance with Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41 and § 435.5. Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41 and § 435.5 do not apply to self represented litigants only if they are incarcerated, or if the proceeding is for forcible entry, forcible detainer, or unlawful detainer. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(d)(1); § 435.5(d)(1)(also inapplicable to a SLAPP motion or motion brought less than 30 days before trial.) None of those situations apply here. On June 7, 2024, Defendant Lichtman submitted a Declaration indicating that he attempted to contact Plaintiffs by telephone to meet and confer about the punitive damages, which only pertains to the motion to strike, and fraud, which is only part of the demurrer.  Lichtman does not indicate that he left a message for each Plaintiff regarding a meet and confer effort.More fundamentally, Plaintiff Vanessa Poydras filed a Declaration indicating that, not only did Defendant fail to meet and confer regarding this motion, but he also did not serve Plaintiff with the motions. This is consistent with the proof of service not indicating the method of service.The Court continued the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike for Defendant is to properly serve Plaintiffs with the demurrer and motion to strike and satisfy the meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41. Defendant was directed to file a supplemental declaration reflecting compliance with this Court’s order by July 8, 2024.While Defendant did not file a supplemental declaration, on July 9, 2024, Plaintiffs did, indicating they were never served with the demurrer and motion to strike, and no meet and confer effort occurred.On July 12, 2024, a substitution of attorney was filed, indicating that Defendant in pro per is now represented by counsel, Dignity Law Group, APC. The Court continued the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike was CONTINUED to August 5, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition indicating that they were never properly served with the demurrer and motion to strike and there has been no meet and confer.The hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike was again CONTINUED to September 11, 2024, and then again to October 7, 2024. Defense counsel was ordered to file proof of service of demurrer and motion to strike and serve plaintiffs. Defense counsel was also ordered to file a meet and confer declaration regarding issues in demurrer within 10 days of the order.As of October 3, 2024, the Court has no indication that defense counsel has complied with the Court’s order. If Plaintiffs were represented by counsel, and not self-represented, the Court at this time would invite them to file a motion for sanctions in the form of attorney's fees for the multiple continuances required by Defendant's noncompliance.  While the Court is mindful that failure to meet and confer shall not be a basis to overrule a demurrer.  However, the repeated and consistent failure to comply with the meet and confer requirement shows that Defendant is unwilling to comply.  As such, the demurrer and motion to strike are placed OFF-CALENDAR, and Defendant is ordered to answer the Complaint within 10 days. Defendant may bring a motion for judgment on the pleadings if he wants, but a motion to strike would be untimely.