  Case Number:  23STCV04164    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
5-8-24
Case
#23STCV04164
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Mark Geragos
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Donald Erikson
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
David Erikson, “an elite and highly experienced attorney” accepted an “offer to
act as “Of Counsel” for the law firm Geragos & Geragos. In addition to
handling the equivalent of an “entire intellectual property department” and
handling “two raging litigation matters,” Plaintiff also contributed more than
2,000 hours of work in other “important and lucrative civil matters” for the
firm. While the parties engaged in some form of moderately specified
compensation agreement, Plaintiff maintains Defendant in fact “stiffed”
Plaintiff on some or all promised compensation, notwithstanding the tremendous
wealth of Mark Geragos. While the parties sought a compensation payment, no
satisfactory agreement materialized. 
 
On
February 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Quantum Meruit, Breach of
Contract, Open Book Account, Account Stated, Promissory Fraud, and Unjust
Enrichment. On March 14, 2024, a notice of death and request for stay was filed
with the court stating Plaintiff Erickson passed away on February 19, 2024. 
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The
court takes judicial notice for purposes of confirming the death of Donald
Erikson. 
 
Defendant Mark Geragos submits a demurrer to the complaint
based on the lack of capacity of Plaintiff David Erickson to prosecute the
action, as a result of the noticed death on February 19, 2024. The opposition
in no way disputes the lack of capacity of the decedent to proceed with the
action, and instead requests the court stay or at least take the demurrer
off-calendar. At least some if not all of the subject claims survive, and the
case will proceed upon substitution of an estate representative. The court
electronic filing system shows no reply on file at the time of the tentative
ruling publication cutoff. 
 
“(a) Except as
otherwise provided by statute, a cause of action for or against a person is not
lost by reason of the person's death, but survives subject to the applicable
limitations period. (b) This section applies even though a loss or
damage occurs simultaneously with or after the death of a person who would have
been liable if the person's death had not preceded or occurred simultaneously
with the loss or damage.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.20, subd. (a).) A
decedent’s appointed personal representative may substitute into an action for
causes of action that survive a plaintiff’s death. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 377.30,
377.34.)
 
The court declines to stay, overrule or declare the motion
moot in that the demurrer still presents a valid basis for the lack of capacity
as to the currently operative complaint brought in the name of decedent. The
court finds the substantive challenge to the merits of the demurrer
unchallenged. The loss of Donald Erickson necessarily supports sustaining the
demurrer with leave to amend in that certain if not all causes of action
survive, and the necessity of the estate representative substituting into the
action. The demurrer lacks any cited case law from the last 150 years either
establishing a statute of limitations ban, or other form of ban before the
estate has been given an opportunity to seek a substitution of a personal
representative. The subject action in no way involves any post judgment
proceedings.  (See Pedlar v. Stroud (1897) 116
Cal. 461, 462; Judson v. Love (1868) 35 Cal. 463, 467.)
 
The court therefore sustains the demurrer with leave to
amend. Given the currently set motion to substitute in an estate representative
on August 18, 2024, (102 days from the hearing of the instant date), the court
grants plaintiff 150 days leave to amend. The extended time frame will allow time
for the estate representative to attempt to substitute into the case as the
real party in interest, and file an amended pleading, pending and assuming approval
of the motion for substitution.
 
Motion to Substitute Party scheduled for August 18, 2024. 
 
Moving
Defendant to provide notice.
 