  Case Number:  19STCV32575    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
HEATHER A. AKER
  BUCK,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALLSTATE NORTHBROOK INDEMNITY COMPANY, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.:       19STCV32575
 
 Hearing Date: May 1, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant allstate northbrook indemnity
  coMpany’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
  adjudication 




 


 



 
Background
            On July 18, 2016, Plaintiff Heather
A. Aker Buck (“Plaintiff”) suffered personal injury as a result of a car
accident with non-party Alyssa R. Garcia. 
Plaintiff filed a lawsuit against Garcia on February 3, 2017.  Plaintiff settled her lawsuit against Garcia
for Garcia’s policy limits in the amount of $25,000, far less than her alleged
injuries due to the accident..  
            Plaintiff holds an auto liability insurance
policy with Defendant Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company.  Plaintiff submitted her claim to Allstate on
July 18, 2016 for the Garcia accident.  On
August 22, 2018, Plaintiff informed Allstate of her settlement with Garcia and
made a formal demand under the Underinsured Motorist coverage of her Allstate
policy.  Plaintiff submitted her bills
and invoices in support of her demand.  
            On May 31, 2019, Allstate offered
Buck $28,500 to settle her claim. 
Plaintiff alleges the offer was far below the $400,000 in damages she
suffered. Plaintiff alleges Allstate failed to provide any basis for its low
offer and appeared to ignore the medical reports and billings Plaintiff had
provided.  Plaintiff claims Allstate’s refusal
to pay Plaintiff’s claim in full was the result of bad faith.  
            On September 12, 2019, Plaintiff
filed this action against Allstate alleging (1) breach of insurance contract;
(2) insurance bad faith; and (3) declaratory relief.  On December 3, 2019, the parties stipulated
to stay this action pending arbitration. 
On April 12, 2023, parties stated at a Post-Arbitration Status
Conference that the parties had settled the underlying uninsured motorist claim
and lifted the stay on this action
            On October 5, 2023, Defendant
Allstated filed the Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication currently before this Court. 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  A reply was filed on April 26, 2024.
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  CCP § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to
establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“If the defendant meets this burden, then
the burden of production shifts to the plaintiff to establish the existence of
a triable issue of material fact. 
[Citation.]”  (Donohue v. AMN Services, LLC (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 1068, 1077.)  “A triable issue of material fact may not be created by
speculation or a ‘stream of conjecture and surmise.’  [Citations.] 
Instead, the plaintiff must produce ‘substantial responsive
evidence.’  [Citation.]”  (Miller
v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 221.)  “There is a
triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof. 
[Citation.]’  [Citation.]”  (Gabrielle
A. v. County of Orange (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1282.)
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant’s
Objections to Frangimore Declaration—OVERRULED
Defendant’s
Objections to Estrada Declaration—OVERRULED
Defendant’s
Objections to Hamrick Declaration—OVERRULED
Discussion
Parties’ Positions
            Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
            Defendant argues the breach of contract fails
as a matter of law, because Defendant undisputedly paid Plaintiff the full Underinsured
Motorist (“UIM”) policy limit.  Defendant
also argues the breach of contract claim fails as a matter of law, because it
is duplicative of the insurance bad faith claim.  
            Defendant argues the insurance bad faith claim also fails
as a matter of law.  Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s claim is now limited to delay in payment, since Defendant has paid fully
the policy limit amount in settlement of Plaintiff’s UIM claim.  Defendant argues that it is not liable for
insurance bad faith based on the undisputed facts, which are (1) it was
actively investigating the claim during the period of delay; (2) Plaintiff refused
to appear for deposition in violation of her contractual obligation to
cooperate, providing Defendant with an absolute defense to any claim that she
should have been paid sooner than July 13, 2022, after Defendant was finally
able to depose her; and (3) the undisputed facts raised legitimate questions about
Buck’s ongoing symptoms and treatments, whether they were the result of the
Garcia accident or conditions that preexisted the Garcia accident; (4) the
amount Plaintiff’s damages and as a result, the value of her claim.  Defendant argues the undisputed evidence
establishes that there was a good faith, a genuine dispute over Plaintiff’s
claim, and no bad faith claim can therefore be maintained.    
            Defendant
argues the declaratory relief claim fails as a matter of law.  Defendant argues Plaintiff has an adequate
legal remedy and she only alleges past wrongs. 

            Defendant
argues the punitive damages claim fails as a matter of law.  Defendant argues there is no evidence of
malice, fraud or oppression, nor is there any evidence that the wrongful
conduct was committed or ratified by an officer director or managing agent.
            Plaintiff’s Opposition 
            Plaintiff argues whether an insurer has
committed insurance bad faith is a question of fact for the jury and can only
be determined as an issue of law where the facts are undisputed and reasonable
minds could only conclude that there was no bad faith.  Plaintiff argues the genuine dispute doctrine
can only be resolved as a question of law where the evidence is undisputed and
viewing the facts in the light most favorable to the insured, a jury could not
find that the insurer acted unreasonably. 

            Plaintiff argues there are triable issues of fact
regarding whether Allstate performed a thorough investigation and fair
evaluation of her claim.  Plaintiff
argues Defendant had originally reserved $65,000 in additional money to
Garcia’s insurance payment for Plaintiff’s UIM claim.  However, Allstate reduced that amount to
$28,315.04 and $39,455.04 on May 28, 2019. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s re-evaluation failed to take into account Plaintiff’s
serious injuries and extensive medical records. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant selectively relied only on certain facts that
supported Defendant’s position and disregarded others that supported
Plaintiff’s position.  
            Plaintiff argues Defendant’s bad faith is also evidenced
by the fact that Defendant waited until July 5, 2022, over three years from its
initial re-evaluation, to conduct another re-evaluation.  Plaintiff argues Defendant claims it only
learned of Plaintiff’s serious injuries after her deposition on June 30,
2022.  Plaintiff argues this is evidence
of bad faith given that her serious injuries were reflected in the medical
records originally submitted to Defendant much earlier.  Plaintiff argues the low-ball settlement
initially offered ($28,315.03) was followed by two additional offers of $32,500
and $36,500.  Plaintiff argues the
undisputed evidence establishes that Defendant’s initial valuation of
Plaintiff’s claim was $28,315.03 to $39,455.03. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s decision to offer the lowest of its
evaluated range followed by likewise low-ball offers is evidence of bad
faith.  Plaintiff argues her own
insurance expert testifies that the failure to offer the $65,000 reserved
initially was itself bad faith and violated insurance industry custom and
practice.  Plaintiff argues Defendant
ignored Plaintiff’s severe injuries, multiple surgeries and years of treatment
in making these low-ball offers.  
            Plaintiff argues there are also triable issues of
material fact as to whether Defendant engaged in bad faith tactics designed to
frustrate Plaintiff’s right to promptly receive benefits due to her. Plaintiff
argues Defendant refused to cooperate in appointing an arbitrator to resolve
Plaintiff’s UIM claim for over two years. 
Plaintiff also argues Defendant unreasonably and improperly filed a separate
lawsuit against Plaintiff for the purpose of harassing her.  
            Plaintiff also argues Defendant’s claim that she refused
to cooperate in the investigation of her claim misconstrues the evidence.  Moreover, Plaintiff argues an insured’s
breach of a cooperation clause does not excuse the insurer of its duty of good
faith and fair dealing.  Plaintiff argues
an insurer’s duty of good faith is not conditional as it is absolute.  
            Plaintiff
argues Defendant can still be held liable for breach of contract based on unreasonable
delay in paying policy benefits as there are triable issues of fact remaining
as to whether Defendant unreasonably delayed in paying benefits and therefore
summary judgment must be denied as to the contract claim.  
            Plaintiff
argues triable issues of fact also exist as to her punitive damages claim.  Plaintiff argues summary adjudication of the
punitive damages claim is improper when the bad faith insurance claim still
survives.  
            Defendant’s
Reply
            Defendant reiterates on reply that there was a genuine dispute over
Plaintiff’s general damages.  Defendant
argues it reduced Plaintiff’s medical expenses to the amount accepted by her
medical providers, as allowed under Howell v. Hamilton Meats &
Provisions (2011) 52 Cal.4th 541.  Defendant argues the dispute was therefore
not over her medical expenses but her general damages, which are notoriously
difficult to value. 
            Defendant
also maintains Plaintiff violated her duty to appear for deposition.  Defendant argues it discovered new
information after her deposition that justified increasing the claim
payment.  Defendant maintains Plaintiff’s
refusal to sit for deposition is a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims.  
            Defendant
argues it did not unreasonably delay, because it was investigating Plaintiff’s
claims.  Defendant disagrees that it was
unreasonable to question Plaintiff’s initial claim given Plaintiff’s medical
history and her subsequent accidents.  Defendant
also disputes that it is required to pay its reserves before completing its
investigation.  
            Defendant
argues the punitive damages claim fails, because Plaintiff does not have any
evidence of malice, fraud or oppression or ratification or authorization of the
alleged wrongful conduct by a managing agent, officer or director.
Triable Issues of Fact Remain 
            1.  Applicable Law
            “Every
contract imposes on each party an implied duty of good faith and fair
dealing.  Simply stated, the burden
imposed is that neither party will do anything which will injure the right of
the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.  Or, to put it another way, the ‘implied
covenant imposes upon each party the obligation to do everything that the
contract presupposes they will do to accomplish its purpose.’”  (Chateau Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n v.
Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 335, 345-346.)  In the insurance context, the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing with respect to handling a claim “is
not the requirement mandated by the terms of the policy itself-to defend,
settle, or pay” but the requirement that the insurer must act “fairly and in
good faith in discharging its contractual responsibilities.”  (Id. at 346.)  “The reasonableness of an insurer's conduct
is ordinarily a question of fact, except in the exceptional instance when only
one reasonable inference can be drawn from the evidence.”  (Mt. Hawley Insurance Company v. Lopez
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1424.)
            In
order to hold an insurer liable for its delay or denial in the payment of
policy benefits as bad faith, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the insurer
acted unreasonably or without proper cause. 
(Id. at 347.)  In
California, an insurer cannot be held liable for conduct in handling a claim
where a genuine dispute exists over either the existence of coverage or the
amount of a particular claim and it advances its side of the dispute.  (Id.) 
           
Thus, under the “genuine dispute” doctrine, an insurer relying on the
advice and opinions of independent experts may be able to assert the genuine
dispute doctrine as a complete defense, depending on whether the investigation
and the expert were subject to bias or bad faith distortion.  (Id. at 348 (reliance upon expert
testimony in evaluating claim does not “automatically” protect an insurer from
a bad faith claim).)  “Where the parties
rely on expert opinions, even a substantial disparity in estimates for the
scope and cost of repairs does not, by itself, suggest the insurer acted in bad
faith. Despite the ‘special relationship’ between an insurer and its insureds,
an insurer may give its own interests consideration equal to that it gives the
interests of its insureds.” (Fraley v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 1282, 1293.)  Likewise, the
“mistaken or erroneous withholding of policy benefits, if reasonable or if
based on a legitimate dispute as to the insurer's liability under California
law, does not expose the insurer to bad faith liability.”  (Chateau Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n, supra,
90 Cal. App.4th at 347.)
However, an
insurer’s reliance on expert opinion to deny benefits does not automatically
insulate it from liability for bad faith denial of claim.  (Chateau, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th
at 348.)  For example, if an insured were
able to present evidence of one of the following scenarios, whether a “genuine
dispute” existed had to be determined by a jury:  “(1) the insurer was guilty of
misrepresenting the nature of the investigatory proceedings; (2) the insurer's
employees lied during the depositions or to the insured; (3) the insurer
dishonestly selected its experts; (4) the insurer's experts were unreasonable;
and (5) the insurer failed to conduct a thorough investigation.”  (Id.) 
(citations omitted). 
           
The “reasonableness of the insurer's decisions and actions must be
evaluated as of the time that they were made; the evaluation cannot fairly be
made in the light of subsequent events which may provide evidence of the
insurer's errors.”  (Id.)  “Although an insurer's bad faith is
ordinarily a question of fact to be determined by a jury by considering the
evidence of motive, intent and state of mind, the question becomes one of law
when, because there are no conflicting inferences, reasonable minds could not
differ… Thus, the issue of bad faith may, in specific instances, be treated as
an issue of law.”  (Id. at 350
(citations omitted).)
            2.  Defendant fails to establish that it acted
reasonably and in good faith as a matter of law and whether there was a genuine
 
            Plaintiff
submitted a UIM claim to Defendant for $75,000 after settling with the other
driver for policy limits of $25,000 in September 2018.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 8.)  Defendant submits the declaration of its
adjuster to establish that its rejection of Plaintiff’s $75,000 claim and its
offers ranging from $28,500 to $36,500 were made in good faith after a
reasonable investigation.  (Zogg Dec.,
¶2.)  Zogg’s testimony does not establish
that the offer was reasonable as a matter of law.  Zogg does not cite to any expert testimony
relied upon her to determine the reasonableness of Plaintiff’s demand and merely
states that the offer was reasonable based on the information available.  (Zogg Dec., ¶14.)  Zogg testifies she did not believe $75,000 to
be a reasonable valuation of Plaintiff’s claim, because Plaintiff had prior
injuries, her nasal fracture seemed to resolve after the accident and Plaintiff
suffered injuries due to subsequent accidents. 
(Zogg Dec., ¶¶13-14.)  Zogg’s
explanation for her assessment of Plaintiff’s value is conclusory and does not
establish reasonableness or even a genuine dispute as a matter of law.  Based on Zogg’s testimony, the Court cannot
determine precisely what Zogg reviewed and what was done to investigate the
claim.  
In fact,
Defendant does not submit all the medical records it received from Plaintiff, rather
Defendant only submits select “excerpted pages” of those medical records.  (Zogg Dec., ¶13; Notice of Filing (“NOF”),
Ex. 11.)  Essentially, Zogg testifies
that she thought the value of the claim was $28,500 to $36,500 based on her
unexplained assessment of Plaintiff’s medical records, which are not fully
provided or discussed.  The Court cannot evaluate
whether Defendant’s assessment of Plaintiff’s claim was reasonable and in good
faith as a matter of law without copies of what Plaintiff provided to Defendant
in support of her claim.  
Even based on
the excerpts, a dispute of fact as to whether Defendant’s assessment was
reasonable and in good faith exists. 
Apart from a multitude of other injuries, Plaintiff suffered from a
fractured nose and was to “proceed with surgery.”  (NOF, Ex. 11, p. 151.)  Plaintiff raises this issue as well, arguing
that the offer was not reasonable in light of the severe injuries she suffered,
undermining Defendant’s reliance on preexisting injuries and other subsequent
accidents as justification for the refusal to pay Plaintiff’s $75,000.  
Moreover,
Defendant ultimately paid Plaintiff $75,000 on her claim in July 2022, claiming
that the new offer was based on new information Plaintiff provided in her
deposition.  (Zogg Dec., ¶¶20-21; NOF Ex.
4 at CN000390 and CN000388 and Ex. 14.) 
Defendant fails to identify what new information they received that they
did not have before.  Exhibit 4, Bates
Nos. CN000390 and CN000388, do not identify any new information upon which the
claim was reevaluated.  They merely
indicate that the claim was reevaluated. 
Document Bates No. CN000388 merely indicates that the full value of
Plaintiff’s claim would be paid.  Exhibit
14 is merely the settlement check.  As
such, Defendant fails to establish that its ultimate decision to pay the full
claim was justified by any new information that it did not previously
have.  
Plaintiff also submits
evidence that nothing new was revealed at her deposition.  Plaintiff submits any information of value to
the assessment had been in Defendant’s possession since she provided her
medical records.  (Frangiamore Decl., ¶¶
8, 10-17, 35; HamrickDecl., Ex. A - CN_165-166, CN_593_595; Hamrick Decl., Ex.
C - ALL_3111-3113, ALL_3114-3117, ALL_3121-3122.)  
3.  Defendant fails to establish
that Plaintiff refused to be deposed in breach of her obligations under the
Insurance Code or the policy
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff refused to cooperate and appear for deposition in violation of
the Insurance Code and the policy. 
(Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 25-28.) 
However, based on Defendant’s own evidence, Plaintiff did not
unreasonably refuse to attend.  Plaintiff
had to reschedule several times due to unavailability and ultimately wanted to
schedule the deposition after the arbitrator had been selected.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff’s evidence confirms that she did not want to sit for
deposition until after an arbitrator was selected, because Allstate delayed in
selecting an arbitrator.  (Plaintiffs’
Additional Material Facts (“AMF”) Nos. 17-19.) 
Plaintiff was deposed on June 30, 2022, shortly after an arbitrator was
selected in May 2022. (Plaintiff’s AMF No. 19.) 
A triable issue of fact therefore exists as to whether Plaintiff “refused”
to sit for deposition in violation of Insurance Code §11580.2(f)(3), which provides
that a deposition may be taken without leave of court and in accordance with
CCP §2025.010, et seq., or in breach of the policy terms.  
Triable issues of fact remain as to the breach of
contract cause of action
            Defendant
fails to establish that it is entitled to summary judgment on the breach of
contract claim as an issue of law. 
Defendant argues it cannot be held liable for breach if it paid the full
amount of Plaintiff’s claim.  Defendant
overlooks Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim based on the delay in paying her
claim and the failure to properly investigate her claim.  “Unreasonable delay in paying policy benefits
or paying less than the amount due is actionable withholding of benefits which
may constitute a breach of contract as well as bad faith giving rise to damages
in tort.”  (Intergulf Development LLC
v. Superior Court (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 16, 20.)  
            Moreover,
the breach of contract claim is not duplicative of the insurance bad faith
claim.  Breach of contract sounds in
contract and can only support contract damages, while insurance bad faith can
sound in tort, giving rise to tort damages including punitive damages.  (Id.) 
By definition, punitive damages are not recoverable on a contract claim.
Triable issues of fact remain as to the punitive damages
claim
            “In
the usual case, the question of whether the defendant's conduct will support an
award of punitive damages is for the trier of fact, since the degree of
punishment depends on the peculiar circumstances of each case.  But the issue may be resolved on summary
judgment, giving due regard to the higher proof standard. While the clear and
convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a
plaintiff the obligation to prove a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment.  However, where the plaintiff's
ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher
standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim
for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.  Summary
judgment on the issue of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable
jury could find the plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of
malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson
& Johnson v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific
Gas and Electric Company v. Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150,
1158–1159.)
            As
the party moving for adjudication of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim,
Defendant bears the initial burden of production on Plaintiff’s punitive
damages claim.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2);
Johnson & Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)  A defendant may satisfy its initial burden on
summary judgment by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of
the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Summary
judgment still requires, however, the presentation of evidence in the form of
“affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice” to demonstrate that plaintiff does not
possess and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence to establish his or her
claim.  (Id. at 854.)
            For
this reason, a defendant does not meet its burden under CCP §437(c)(o)(1) by
merely “pointing out” or “arguing” that the plaintiff does not possess or
cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence. 
(Id.; Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89
(defendant bank did not meet its burden on summary judgment of wrongful
foreclosure by merely arguing that plaintiff lacked evidence to support her
claim and only documentary evidence submitted were the loan documents); Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 890 (defendant did not establish
plaintiff’s lack of evidence or inability to reasonably obtain evidence of
plaintiff’s ability and willingness to perform by pointing to plaintiff’s
refusal to answer certain questions during deposition on grounds of a meritless
privacy objection; such a refusal, regardless of its merit, was neither an
admission nor a factually devoid discovery response).)
            Defendant
fails to establish as an issue of law that it acted in good faith or that there
was a genuine dispute over the amount to be paid on the claim after reasonable
investigation.  Defendant cannot merely
argue that Plaintiff lacks clear and convincing evidence of malice based on
despicable conduct undertaken in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights.  Given the existence of triable
issues of fact on the underlying cause of action for insurance bad faith, the
Court cannot find that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails as a matter
of law.
Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action fails
as a matter of law
            Declaratory
relief is improper where “the rights of the complaining party have crystallized
into a cause of action for past wrongs, all relationship between the parties
has ceased to exist and there is no conduct of the parties subject to
regulation by the court.”  (Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners, LLC (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 357, 376.)
           
However, as explained in Osseous, this does not meant that
declaratory relief is improper in every case where a breach of contract
alleged.  The Court of Appeal created a
conceptual framework classifying declaratory relief into three types for the
purpose of determining whether the trial court erred by dismissing a
declaratory relief cause of action. In a “ ‘Type 1’ declaratory relief cause of
action, the complaint alleges only a past breach of contract, a breach of
contract remedy is available, and declaratory relief is unnecessary to guide
future conduct.  (Id. at pp. 365,
366–368.)  The court must dismiss the
Type 1 type of declaratory relief claims. 
(Id.)  A “Type 2”
declaratory relief cause of action alleges an actual and ongoing controversy,
such as a continuing contractual relationship, and future consequences that
depend on the court's interpretation of the contract.  (Id. at pp. 369–371.)  A trial court must not dismiss a Type 2
declaratory relief cause of action. (Id. at p. 365.)  A “Type 3” declaratory relief cause of action
alleges a current controversy over a past breach of contract and the potential
a declaration of the parties' rights under a contract might be necessary to
guide the parties' future conduct in a continuing contractual
relationship.  (Id. at pp.
374–376.)  A trial court has discretion
to dismiss a Type 3 declaratory relief cause of action.  (Id. at p. 365.)
            Plaintiff’s
declaratory relief claim is a Type 1 declaratory relief claim under Osseous
and must be dismissed.  As such, summary
adjudication is granted as to the declaratory relief cause of action.      
Conclusion and ORDER
            Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.  Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication of the third cause of action for declaratory relief is
GRANTED.  Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of contract, second cause
of action for insurance bad faith and punitive damages is DENIED.  
            Moving Party to give notice within
seven (7) days.
 
DATED:  May 1, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolana
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court