  Case Number:  22STCV35324    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JANE DOE C.J. 
 
        
  vs.
 
DOE #1, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV35324 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 17, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel compliance with the Court’s 3/7/2024 Order is GRANTED IN PART,
consistent with the ruling set forth below. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly
and severally with counsel, $700 payable within 30 days. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel the CTC to produce unredacted records subpoenaed by Plaintiff
is GRANTED. 
 
On 11/4/2022,
Plaintiff Jane Doe C.J. filed suit against Doe #1 (a public entity) and Doe #2.
On 1/4/2024, Plaintiff filed a seconded amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1)
childhood sexual abuse; (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3)
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; (4) failure to report suspected
child abuse; (5) negligent supervision of a minor; and (6) negligence. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s compliance with the Court’s 3/7/2024
Order, and moves to compel the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
(CTC) to produce unredacted records subpoenaed by Plaintiff. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Compel Compliance with
Court’s 3/7/2024 Order
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has failed to comply with the Court’s 3/7/2024 Order.
Namely, Plaintiff argues: 
 
The Court previously granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses and document production by Defendant Doe 1 aka LAUSD subject
to the entry of a stipulated protective order. Plaintiff and Defendant (the
“Parties”) entered into a stipulated protective order on June 27, 2024, which
was subsequently filed with the Court. The stipulated protective order allowed
for the Parties to be bound by the Stipulated Protective Order pending approval
and entry by the Court. Plaintiff met and conferred numerous times with
Defendant for the production under the stipulated protective order, as ordered
by the Court, and Defendant did not provide any further responses or document
production until August 1, 2024. However, Defendant produced severely redacted
documents related to Chester Kyle Williams’ personnel file that went far beyond
redacting Williams’ date of birth, social security number, phone number, and
addresses. Defendant’s document production Bate stamped Nos.
LAUSD000107-LAUSD000169 completely redacted large portions of the records
apparently concerning LAUSD’s investigation, interviews, and names of Williams’
other student victims in direct defiance and contravention of the Court’s March
7, 2024, Order.
 
            (Motion,
1: 12-25.)
 
            As
a result, Plaintiff seeks evidentiary and issue sanctions, as well as monetary
sanctions, as follows: 
 
1. Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District received complaints, warnings, and reports
of Chester Kyle Williams’ sexual abuse and/or inappropriate conduct with
students prior to Plaintiff’s abuse as a minors student at Defendant’s school
by Williams ending; 
 
2. Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District did not report any complaints, warnings, or
reports of Chester Kyle Williams’ abuse of minor students to law enforcement or
the police prior to Plaintiff’s abuse by Williams’ ending; and 
 
3. Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District did not terminate or remote Chester Kyle
Williams from teaching Plaintiff despite Defendant’s receipt of prior
complaints, warnings, and reports of Chester Kyle Williams’ sexual abuse and/or
inappropriate conduct with students prior to Plaintiff’s abuse as a minors
student at Defendant’s school by Williams ending.
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that it was required by Family Educational Rights
and Privacy Act (FERPA) to redact all third party student information, as such
information cannot only be released with a signed authorization or under
certain specified conditions. 
 
The applicable provision Section
99.31(a)(9)(ii), set forth as follows:
 
(a)  
An educational agency or institution
may disclose personally identifiable information from an education record of a
student without the consent required by § 99.30 if the disclosure meets one or
more of the following conditions:…
 
(9) (i) The
disclosure is to comply with a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena. 
 
(ii) The
educational agency or institution may disclose information under paragraph
(a)(9)(i) of this section only if the agency or institution makes a reasonable
effort to notify the parent or eligible student of the order or subpoena in
advance of compliance, so that the parent or eligible student may seek protective
action, unless the disclosure is in compliance with— 
 
(A) A Federal
grand jury subpoena and the court has ordered that the existence or the
contents of the subpoena or the information furnished in response to the
subpoena not be disclosed; 
 
(B) Any other
subpoena issued for a law enforcement purpose and the court or other issuing
agency has ordered that the existence or the contents of the subpoena or the
information furnished in response to the subpoena not be disclosed; or
 
 (C) An ex parte court order obtained by the
United States Attorney General (or designee not lower than an Assistant
Attorney General) concerning investigations or prosecutions of an offense
listed in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g)(5)(B) or an act of domestic or international
terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331. (Emphasis added)
 
Subsection
(b)(1) provides that redacted records may be released without consent: 
 
(b)  (1)
De-identified records and information. An educational agency or institution, or
a party that has received education records or information from education
records under this part, may release the records or information without the
consent required by § 99.30 after the removal of all personally identifiable
information provided that the educational agency or institution or other party
has made a reasonable determination that a student's identity is not personally
identifiable, whether through single or multiple releases, and taking into
account other reasonably available information.
 
As such,
Defendant contends that it has provided all responsive information in
compliance with this Court’s March 7, 2024 Court Order. However, student
identifiable information contained within Mr. Williams’ records (specifically,
student’s full first and last name (after first initial) and date of birth)
were redacted therefrom.
 
Defendant
contends that “To the extent that the Court orders that the student information
be provided (and the documents be provided in unredacted form), the School
District would need a separate order that such information be provided. That
Court Order will be provided to all students whose information is sought, to
comply with 34 CFR Section 99.31(a)(9)(ii), with a means for them to object to
disclosure of their information. The School District would need additional time
thereafter to produce the unredacted documents.” (Opp., 7: 2-7.) 
 
However, in
reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s arguments “ring hollow for numerous
reasons,” including that:
 
(1) the Court
already considered Defendant’s FERPA objections in Plaintiff’s original motion
to compel and still ordered production of Williams’ personnel file under a
protective order to protect all privacy interests at play; (2) Defendant’s
original opposition to Plaintiff’s failed to raise any FERPA arguments or
requests to redact the names of the other student-victims; (3) FERPA applies
only to educational records and the documents within Williams’ personnel file
that provide the names of the other victims are from publicly filed police
reports and criminal case filings against Williams by said victims which are
not educational records for the individual student victims and, thus, not
subject to FERPA; and (4) Defendant itself utilized the redacted information in
Williams’ personnel file and contacted one of the students victims, Martia
Williams, and obtained a declaration from her. There simply is no valid reason
for Defendant to continue to withhold highly relevant information from
Plaintiff after the Court’s prior March 7, 2024, Order was issued and less than
1.5 months from trial.
 
            (Reply,
2:26-3:8.) 
 
            The
Court agrees with Plaintiff, particularly given that Defendant has apparently
utilized the redacted information withheld from Plaintiff’s counsel to obtain a
statement from one of these other victims, Martia Williams. Defendant must
produce the unredacted versions of its document production by removing the
redactions of the other minor student victims of Williams so that Plaintiff can
obtain relevant discoverable information and names of potential other witnesses
such as the victims’ parents, friends, and Defendant’s employees who were
informed or received the complaints.
 
            The
Court finds that an order requiring production of these unredacted records is
sufficient, and the Court declines to award issue or evidentiary sanctions at
this time. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance with the Court’s
3/7/2024 Order is granted in part. Defendant is ordered to produce unredacted
records in keeping with the ruling set forth above, but the Court declines to
award monetary or evidentiary sanctions at this time. Defendant is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.)  
 
II.              
CCTC Subpoena 
 
Plaintiff
argues good cause exists to compel the CTC to produce all unredacted records
related to Defendant’s teacher, Chester Williams, deceased (Williams) in
response to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena.
 
The Subpoena
sought:
 
1. Any and
all DOCUMENTS, including statements of decision, findings, summaries, opinions,
rulings, and/or minutes regarding any California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing investigation and/or hearing regarding CHESTER KYLE WILLIAMS
(DOB: XXXXXXXX), who was licensed by the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing. 
 
2. Any and
all DOCUMENTS regarding any disciplinary action imposed on CHESTER KYLE
WILLIAMS, who is licensed by the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing. 
 
3. Any and
all DOCUMENTS regarding complaints about inappropriate behavior by CHESTER KYLE
WILLIAMS.
 
 4. Any and all DOCUMENTS regarding any
response by CHESTER KYLE WILLIAMS to any complaints made against him. 
 
5. Any and
all DOCUMENTS regarding any alleged improper behavior by licensee CHESTER KYLE
WILLIAMS. 
 
6. Any and
all DOCUMENTS submitted to the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
by CHESTER KYLE WILLIAMS, including but not limited to applications,
statements, fingerprints, and forms.
 
7. Any and
all DOCUMENTS referring and/or regarding correspondence and/or communications
between the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing and CHESTER KYLE WILLIAMS.
 
8. Any and
all DOCUMENTS referring and/or regarding correspondence and/or communications
between the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing and LOS ANGELES
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT regarding CHESTER KYLE WILLIAMS. 
 
9. The
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing's complete file of CHESTER KYLE
WILLIAMS.
 
Plaintiff
contends that LAUSD produced records with pertinent sections heavily redacted.
The Commission also objected to producing other records related to disciplinary
actions or complaints made against Williams.
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the documents sought are confidential under
the California Education Code, and thus can only be produced pursuant to a
Court order. 
 
After review,
the Court finds the records sought to be relevant and discoverable. The
teacher’s initial application, statements regarding prior professional conduct
and allegations, personnel file, disciplinary history, and whether he should
have been hired as a teacher in the first place without further investigation,
vetting, or supervision ties directly to the parties’ dispute. Education Code
section 44230 clearly permits the CTC to produce records so long as a Court
orders the CTC to do so, and section 44248 does not restrict the Commission
from responding to a properly served subpoena. 
 
Finally, CTC
argues that because it cannot attest to the admissibility of all documents
contained with Williams’ personnel file then it cannot respond to aspects of
Plaintiff’s subpoena. However, admissibility at trial is not required for
discovery. Rather, the test is whether the information sought might reasonably
lead to other evidence what would be admissible. (Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel to order the CTC to produce all
materials related to Plaintiff’s abuser in unredacted form outside of any
payroll, date of birth, and social security information of Williams is granted.

It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 