 Case Number:  BC669038    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CYNTHIA
  LOPEZ
                           
         vs.
 
KENNETH
  LOPEZ
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  BC669038
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 17, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s motion for an order of assignment is
CONTINUED, to allow for supplemental materials to be filed consistent with the
ruling set forth below. 
 
On 11/4/2015, Plaintiff Cynthia Lopez filed suit against Kenneth
Lopez. Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (FAC) alleges causes of action for:
(1) defamation-libel; (2) defamation-slander; (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (5)
malicious prosecution; (6) abuse of process; and (7) injunctive relief.
            
On 8/2/2024, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor (Judgment) moved
for an order of assignment. 
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff seeks an order of
assignment of payments made by Solidifi U.S.Inc to Defendant/Judgment Debtor
(Defendant).
            CCP section 708.510, subdivision (a)
authorizes the Court to issue an order
directing the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or part of a
right to payment due or to become due, including wages due from the
federal government that are not subject to withholding under an earnings
withholding order.
In determining whether to order an assignment or the
amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into
consideration all relevant factors, including the following:
(1) 
The
reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor.
 
(2) 
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or that
are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for support.
 
(3) 
The amount remaining due on the money judgment.
 
(4) 
The amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the
right to payment that may be assigned.
 
(CCP § 708.510, subd. (c).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff submitted evidence that Defendant is an
independent contractor engaged by Solidifi to provide appraisals. (See Boon
Decl.) 
 
Plaintiff also submitted evidence in the form of
Defendant’s own trial testimony that establishes that he is a “health, 54
year-old male with a master’s degree in financial economics, gainfully and
successfully self-employed with five income streams as a (1) real estate
appraiser; (2) real estate broker; (3) speculator (“flipper”) of real estate;
(4) owner of real estate; and (5) a financial asset/money manager.” (See Boon
Decl., Exh. C., pp 3-4.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant submitted a financial statement in
which he claims his gross monthly pay is only $1500, and that his total monthly
expenses total $2,310. Defendant further claims to have an outstanding balance
of $9,000 with Aerospace Credit Union, and an outstanding balance of $14,000
with Wells Fargo. However, Defendant did not submit any accompanying
documentation to corroborate his claims.
 
Given the lack of corroborating evidence, the Court is
unable to evaluate Defendant’s contention that he depends on all income for
living expenses. Accordingly, the Court cannot evaluate whether or not any
portion of his wages from Solidifi U.S. Inc can be assigned. This motion is
continued, and Defendant is directed to submit all necessary documentation to
corroborate his financial statement claims.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for an order
of assignment is continued, to allow for supplemental materials to be filed
consistent with this ruling. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        
            