  Case Number:  22STCV14520    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On
May 2, 2022, Plaintiffs Thomas Skehan (“Skehan”) and Brendan Trainotti (“Trainotti”) filed this action against Defendants The
Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”), John Doe Renter, Darva Rycewicz (“Rycewicz”), and
Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort.  On January 23,
2024, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Harlea Moreno in
place of John Doe Renter. 
On
July 25, 2022, Hertz filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Trainotti and Roes 1-25 for indemnification, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. 
Also
on July 25, 2022, Hertz filed a Notice of
Permanent Injunction Pursuant to Bankruptcy Court Confirmation Order and Demand
for Dismissal.  The notice stated that
Hertz had filed bankruptcy under Chapter 11, Case No. 20-11218 (MFW), in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.  According to the notice, “all entities that
have held, hold or may hold claims or interests against [Hertz] . . . are
permanently enjoined from and after the effective date of June 30, 2021, from
commencing or continuing in any manner any action or other proceeding of any
kind on account or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or
interest.” 
On
August 7, 2023, the Court stayed the entire action. 
On
October 30, 2023, Hertz filed a motion (1) for an order directing the Center
for Integrated Care (“Center”) to comply with a subpoena for production of records, (2) for
an order compelling Trainotti to execute an authorization allowing the Center to release Trainotti’s medical records, and (3) for
sanctions.  The motion was set to be
heard on February 8, 2024.  On January
26, 2024, Trainotti filed an opposition and request for sanctions.  On February 1, 2024, Hertz filed a reply. The
Court continued the hearing to May 1, 2024. 
No
trial is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Hertz
asks the Court (1) to order the Center to comply with Hertz’s subpoena for
records, (2) to order Trainotti to provide a signed authorization for the
Center to produce the requested records, and (3) to impose sanctions on Trainotti. 
Trainotti
asks the Court to deny the motion and to impose sanctions on Hertz. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2020.010 provides: 
“(a) Any of the following methods may be used to
obtain discovery within the state from a person who is not a party to the
action in which the discovery is sought: 
“(1) An oral deposition under Chapter 9 (commencing
with Section 2025.010). 
“(2) A written deposition under Chapter 11 (commencing
with Section 2028.010). 
“(3) A deposition for production of business records
and things under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410) or Article 5
(commencing with Section 2020.510). 
“(b) Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section
2025.280, the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a
deposition subpoena.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.020 provides: 
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the
following: 
“(a) Only the attendance and the testimony of the
deponent, under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2020.310). 
“(b) Only the production of business records for
copying, under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410). 
“(c) The attendance and the testimony of the deponent,
as well as the production of business records, other documents, electronically
stored information, and tangible things, under Article 5 (commencing with
Section 2020.510).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
“(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
“(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant
to subdivision (a): 
“(1) A party. 
“(2) A witness. 
“(3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3. 
“(4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. 
“(5) A person whose personally identifying
information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil
Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person’s
exercise of free speech rights. 
“(c) Nothing in this section shall require any person
to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of personal
records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
  “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).)             
DISCUSSION 
A.   The Court modifies the stay 
On
August 7, 2023, the Court stayed the entire action in response to Hertz’s July
25, 2022 Notice of Permanent Injunction Pursuant to Bankruptcy Court
Confirmation Order and Demand for Dismissal. 
The
Court now modifies its August 7, 2023 stay order and limits the stay to the claims
specified in Hertz’s July 25, 2022 notice. 
As modified,
the stay does not prevent the Court from considering Hertz’s motion. 
B.   Background 
In
his discovery responses, Trainotti stated that the Center provided
psychotherapy for an injury that he attributes to the accident. 
On
August 21, 2023, Hertz issued a deposition subpoena to the Center for production
of business records with a production date of September 14, 2023. The subpoena asks
the Center to produce Trainotti’s complete medical records, including (among
other things) cardiology reports, radiology reports, x-ray reports, MRI
reports, CT reports, myelogram reports, tomograms, MRAs, PET scans, CAT scans,
fluoroscopy, discograms, and EMGs. 
On
September 13, 2023, the Center sent Hertz a letter objecting to the subpoena.  In the letter, the Center asserted the
psychotherapist/patient privilege and the California constitution’s recognition
of a right to privacy.  The Center stated
that it required either Trainotti’s written authorization or a court order to
release the records.  
Trainotti
has refused Hertz’s request for a written authorization to obtain the Center’s
records. 
C.   Hertz’s request to compel the Center’s compliance with
the subpoena 
1.    California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides: 
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a
motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of
a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1346 (“Rule 3.1346”).) 
Trainotti
asserts that Hertz failed to comply with Rule 3.1346 because it did not
personally serve its motion on the Center and the Center has not agreed to
accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on a deposition record.  Therefore, Trainotti argues, the Court should
deny the motion. 
Hertz
responds that (1) it served the motion on the Center by certified mail “return
receipt requested” at the same address listed on the subpoena, (2) the Center
received the subpoena, and (3) “it is immaterial” that Hertz did not personally
serve the motion on the Center.  The argument
is not persuasive because it assumes that noncompliance with a rule of court is
not material. 
Hertz
also suggests that Rule 3.1346 does not apply because the Center was not
deposed.  The Court has found no
published authority on the question whether the rule applies only when the
deponent has already attended a deposition. 
Because Hertz’s interpretation is a plausible reading of the rule and Trainotti
has shown no prejudice from Hertz’s failure to personally serve the Center, the
Court finds that any noncompliance with Rule 3.1346 does not require the Court
to deny the motion. 
2.    Privacy 
Hertz
argues the Court should compel the Center to produce the responsive records
because the records are relevant and material to Trainotti’s claims for mental
and emotional injuries.  According to Hertz,
Trainotti has reduced his expectation of privacy by filing a lawsuit.  (Motion p. 8.) 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’  [Citation.] 
Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy
interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial.  Thus courts must balance the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons
subject to discovery”].) 
“Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]”  (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
“The
showing required to overcome the protection depends on the nature of the
privacy right asserted; in some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient,
while in others, a compelling interest must be shown.”  (L. Edmon & C.
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
8:294, p. 8C-98 (Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial).) 
“Although
a plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient privilege
with respect to the conditions in controversy [citation], plaintiff still has a
right of privacy in plaintiff’s medical records.  Compelled disclosure of the records turns on
balancing the need for disclosure against the need for confidentiality.  Ordinarily, disclosure of relevant medical
history is allowed because defendants have no other means by which to obtain
this information.  [Citations.] [¶]  But this does not open up plaintiff’s
‘lifetime’ medical history.  Plaintiff
still has privacy rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the
claim or injury sued upon.”  (R. Fairbank,
N. Epstein, M. Wegner & L. Wegner, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Trials and
Evidence (Rutter 2022) ¶ 8:2720, p. 8E-235, emphasis added.)  
“The
burden is on ‘the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent
and the seriousness of the prospective invasion,’ and then the court must
‘weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.’ ”  (Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial, supra, ¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.) 
 Trainotti’s
opposition does not address the privacy issue.  However, Trainotti could reasonably have assumed that the entire case was stayed, as the Court ruled on August 7, 2023, and therefore Trainotti was not required to brief the privacy issue on the merits.  It would be unfair to find that Trainotti has not carried his burden of establishing the
extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion of his privacy rights when the Court had stayed the action and Trainotti could reasonably have concluded that he was only required to bring that fact to the Court's attention. Trainotti's opposition also addressed the issue of service under Rule 3.1346 and it may have been prudent to address the privacy issue as well.  Nonetheless, the Court will continue the hearing on Hertz's motion to give Trainotti an opportunity to address the issue of whether the subpoena violates his privacy rights. 
D.   Hertz’s request to compel Trainotti to authorize the
Center’s production of responsive records
  The Court defers Hertz's request to compel Trainotti to authorize the Center's production of responsive records to the continued hearing date. 
E.   Sanctions 
The
Court defers both parties’ requests for sanctions to the continued hearing date. 
CONCLUSION
  The Court CONTINUES, to a date to be provided at the May 1, 2024 hearing, the hearing on Defendant The Hertz Corporation's motion (1) for an order directing the Center for Integrated Care to comply with a subpoena for production of records, (2) for an order compelling Plaintiff Brendan Trainotti to execute an authorization allowing the Center for Integrated Care to release Plaintiff Brendan Trainotti’s medical records, and (3) for sanctions. Plaintiff Brendan Trainotti may file a supplemental brief no later than 20 days before the continued hearing.  Defendant The Hertz Company may file a response to Plaintiff Brendan Trainotti's supplemental brief no later than 10 days before the continued hearing.  Plaintiff Brendan Trainotti may file a reply no later than 5 days before the continued hearing. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.