


[1] 
If the arbitration
agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed.
If the arbitration agreement does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator,
the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is
sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be
followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for
any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and
his or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to
the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
When a petition is made to the court to appoint
a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons from lists of persons
supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental
agency concerned with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned
with arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against
whom arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among
the nominees.
If the parties fail to select an arbitrator
within the five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
    (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)
 

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The motion
to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim and Plaintiff’s individual wage and hour claims. Plaintiff’s representative
PAGA claim shall remain in court.
 
However,
the litigation is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
The Court
sets a status conference re: arbitration
completion for August 19, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
 
            Defendants Silverline Construction, Inc.
and Michael D. Murphy move to compel arbitration and stay this action. 
 
Waiver
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants waived the
right to arbitrate by failing to plead it as an affirmative defense in the Answer.
It is true the Defendants failed to plead this as an affirmative defense. “At a
minimum, the failure to plead arbitration as an affirmative defense is an act inconsistent
with the later assertion of a right to arbitrate.”  (Guess?, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 553, 557-58.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants waived the right to arbitrate by engaging in discovery, forcing
Plaintiff to file a motion to compel discovery responses, engaging in case management
conferences and participating in setting a trial date.  Plaintiff argues that he suffered prejudice in
the form of costs for hearing dates and discovery.  Plaintiff also argues that Defendants did not bring
this motion until a year after being served with the summons and complaint in April
2023.
 
In assessing waiver of a contractual right to arbitration, the court
may consider the following factors when determining waiver: “‘“(1) whether the party's
actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation
machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation
of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate;
(3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial
date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant
seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the
proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage
of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’;
and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.”’”
(Citations omitted.)
 
(Desert Regional Medical Center, Inc. v. Miller (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 295, 315-16 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            Here, Plaintiff amended the Complaint before Defendants even
appeared in this action. Defendants answered the operative First Amended Complaint
on May 11, 2023 without having demurred to the First Amended Complaint filed on
March 14, 2023.  On August 7, 2023, the Court
set a March 3, 2025 trial date.  Notably,
as the August 7, 2023 case management conference, the Court ordered the parties
to schedule and participate in a mediation, with a mediation completion date of
December 9, 2024—which is still about 8 months away. Defendant did not file a counterclaim.

 
            Thereafter, on December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions
to compel further discovery responses from Defendant Silverline Construction Inc.
 However, Defendant’s service of responses
to discovery propounded by Plaintiff did not give Defendant an unfair advantage,
nor did it constitute substantial invocation of the litigation machinery, such as
would justify a finding of waiver. As noted, trial is not set to begin until 10
months away. 
 
With regard to the sixth factor—whether the nonmoving party has
been prejudiced—the California Supreme Court has stated that:
 
[C]ourts assess prejudice with the recognition that California’s
arbitration statutes reflect “‘a strong public policy in favor of arbitration
as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution’” and are
intended ‘“to encourage persons who wish to avoid delays incident to a civil
action to obtain an adjustment of their differences by a tribunal of their own choosing.’”
[Citation.]  Prejudice typically is found
only where the petitioning party’s conduct has substantially undermined this important
public policy or substantially impaired the other side’s ability to take
advantage of the benefits and efficiencies of arbitration. 
 
For example, courts have found prejudice where the petitioning
party used the judicial discovery processes to gain information about the other
side’s case that could not have been gained in arbitration [citations]; where a
party unduly delayed and waited until the eve of trial to seek arbitration
[citation]; or where the lengthy nature of the delays associated with the petitioning
party’s attempts to litigate resulted in lost evidence . . . .
 
(St. Agnes Medical Center v.
PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1204 (citations omitted).)
 Plaintiff indicates that the costs of
jury fees and motion fees, as well as expenditure of attorneys’ fees and the
time lost to delay are substantial forms of prejudice.  However, St. Agnes suggests that a
party’s costs and expenses of litigation would not support a finding of waiver
or prejudice, unless the expenditures are associated with conduct by the moving
party that would itself support a finding of waiver.  (St. Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th
at 1205.)  In this case, Defendants’
participation in case management conferences and meet and confer discussions
regarding Defendants’ responses to discovery propounded by Plaintiff are not
acts that inherently lend themselves to a finding of prejudice, and Defendants’
explanation for several months’ delay in seeking arbitration—that the
arbitration agreement was not immediately found—is plausible and does not
appear to have caused prejudice.
 
            When weighing the factors to be considered in a waiver analysis,
as set forth above in Desert Regional
Medical Center, the Court
finds Defendants have not waived the right to compel arbitration. 
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
California
favors arbitration. (Haworth v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 372, 380.) Civ. Proc. Code, §1281.2 provides: 
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence
of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:

 (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or

 (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.


            Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.
(Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1343; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration
has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and
the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348,
356.) The court may weigh the evidence by considering affidavits, declarations,
documents and oral testimony. (Id. at
357.)
 
            Defendants
present the following arbitration agreement which Plaintiff signed on January 4,
2021 (Declaration of Richard Ernst, ¶ 6; Exhs. A & B):
 
2. I, and SILVERLINE
CONSTRUCTION INC. agree to utilize binding individual arbitration as the sole and
exclusive means to resolve all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any
way to my employment, including but not limited to the termination of my employment
and my compensation. SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC. and I each specifically waive
and relinquish our respective rights to bring a claim against the other in a
court of law.
SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC. and I agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy
that I may have against SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC. (or their respective
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, or agents), or SILVERLINE
CONSTRUCTION
INC. may have
against me, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration
under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA"), in conformity with the procedures
of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec I280 et seq., including
section 1283.05 and all of the Act's other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery).
The FAA applies to this Agreement because SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC.'s business
involves interstate commerce. Included within the scope of this Agreement
are all disputes, whether based on tort, contract, statute (including, but not limited
to, any claims of discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation, whether they be
based on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of I964, as amended, or any other state or federal law or regulation),
equitable law, or otherwise. The only exception to the requirement of binding
arbitration shall be for claims arising under the National Labor Relations Act which
are brought before the National Labor Relations Board, claims for medical and disability
benefits under the California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development
Department claims, or other claims that are not subject to arbitration under current
law. However, nothing herein shall prevent me from filing and pursuing proceedings
before the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or the United States
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (although if I choose to pursue a claim
following the exhaustion of such administrative remedies, that claim would be subject
to the provisions of this Agreement). By this binding arbitration provision, I acknowledge
and agree that SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION |NC., and I give up our respective rights
to trial by jury of any claim I, or SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC. may have against
the other.
 
3. All claims
brought under this binding arbitration Agreement shall be brought
in the individual
capacity of myself, or SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC. This binding arbitration Agreement
shall not be construed to allow or permit the consolidation or joinder of other
claims or controversies involving any other employees or parties, or permit such
claims or controversies to proceed as a class action, collective action or any similar
representative action. No arbitrator shall have the authority under this agreement
to order any such class, collective or representative action. By signing this agreement,
I am agreeing to waive any substantive or procedural rights that I may have to bring
an action on a class, collective, representative, or other similar basis.
 
4. In addition
to any other requirements imposed by law, the arbitrator
selected to hear
claims under this Agreement shall be a retired California Superior Court Judge,
or an otherwise qualified individual to whom the parties mutually agree, and shall
be subject to disqualification on the same grounds as would apply to a judge of
such court. All rules of pleading (including the right of demurrer), all rules of
evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by means of motions for summary
judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 631.8 shall apply and be observed. The arbitrator shall have the immunity
of a judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity of an arbitrator,
which immunity supplements any other existing
immunity. Likewise,
all communications during or in connection with the arbitration proceedings are
privileged in accordance with Cal. Civil Code Section 47(b). As reasonably required
to allow full use and benefit of this agreement’s modifications to the Act’s procedures,
the arbitrator shall extend the times set by the Act for the giving of notices and
setting of hearings. Awards shall include the arbitrator's written reasoned opinion.
Resolution of all disputes shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims
and defenses pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including but
not limited to, notions of ”just cause") other than such controlling law.
 
5. This is the
entire agreement between SILVERLINE CONSTRUCTION INC., and me regarding dispute
resolution, the length of my employment, and the reasons for termination of my employment,
and this agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements regarding these issues.
Oral representations or agreements made before or after my employment do not alter
this Agreement.
 
6. If any term,
provision or portion of this Agreement is determined to be void
or unenforceable
it shall be severed and the remainder of this Agreement shall be fully enforceable.
 
(Employee Acknowledgement
and Agreement, Ernst Decl., Exh. A [bold emphasis added].)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges a cause of action for PAGA and wage and hour violations. This comes within
the broad scope of the Arbitration Agreement, which includes all disputes based
on statute. The arbitration expressly purports to apply to Silverline’s respective
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, or agents. Defendant Michael D.
Murphy is alleged to be chief 
executive officer, chief financial
officer, a director, and secretary of Silverline. (1AC, ¶ 26.) As such, Murphy is
entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement against Plaintiff.
 
In the Opposition
Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed the Arbitration Agreement.
 
Armendariz Factors:
            
Where a party
seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702, 711-12), such as the PAGA claim and wage and hour
claims involved here, there are: 
 
five minimum requirements
for the lawful arbitration of such rights pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration
agreement. Such an arbitration agreement is lawful if it "(1) provides for
neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires
a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise
be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable
costs or any arbitrators' fees or expenses as a condition of access
to the arbitration forum. Thus, an employee who is made to use arbitration as a
condition of employment 'effectively may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause
of action in the arbitral forum.' " (Citation omitted.) 


(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
Initially, we see no reason why Armendariz's
"particular scrutiny" of arbitration agreements should be confined to
claims under FEHA. Rather, under the Supreme Court's analysis, such scrutiny
should apply to the enforcement of rights under any statute enacted "for a
public reason."
 

(Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 167, 180 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
However, 
 
Armendariz
held that to the extent that the arbitration agreement was silent on these issues,
these requirements must be implied as a matter of law. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at pp. 106, 107, 113 [interpreted the agreement to provide for adequate
discovery, a written arbitration award, and the employer's payment of arbitration
costs].) To the extent that the agreement
expressly limited these rights, Armendariz held that the agreement was contrary
to public policy and unenforceable. (Id. at p. 104 [stated that a provision
limiting damages was unlawful].)

(Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 176 [bold emphasis added].)
 
(1)  Neutral arbitrators:  
            ¶
4 of the Arbitration Agreement provides in pertinent part:
4. In addition to any other requirements imposed
by law, the arbitrator selected to hear claims under this Agreement shall be a retired
California Superior Court Judge, or an otherwise qualified individual to whom the
parties mutually agree, and shall be subject to disqualification on the same grounds
as would apply to a judge of such court. 
            Plaintiff argues that this does not satisfy
Armendariz. However, this is not persuasive, as Plaintiff would have the
ability to disqualify an arbitrator and Plaintiff’s mutual agreement is required
if the parties cannot agree on a retired Superior Court Judge. 
This requirement is satisfied.
(2)  More than minimal discovery:
 
 “Adequate discovery is indispensable for the vindication
of statutory claims. (Citation omitted.) “ ‘[A]dequate’ discovery does not mean unfettered discovery … .”
(Citation omitted.) And parties may “agree
to something less than the full panoply of discovery provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1283.05.” (Citation omitted.) However, arbitration agreements
must “ensure minimum standards of fairness” so employees can vindicate their public
rights. (Citation omitted).” (Fitz v. NCR
Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-16[bold emphasis added].)
 
Here, the
agreement is silent as to discovery. As such, this requirement is implied as a matter
of law. (Sanchez, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th
at 176.)
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (3)  Written
award:
 
¶ 4 requires:
“Awards shall include the arbitrator's written reasoned opinion.”
 
Plaintiff
makes the following arguments: First, it does not state that the reasoned opinion
shall be written such that it allows for judicial review. However, it is implicit
that a written reasoned opinion allows for judicial review.
 
Second, it
only requires a written opinion if there is an Award.  If Plaintiff does not receive an award at arbitration,
no written opinion is needed, preventing judicial review of the arbitration decision
not to award Plaintiff anything. This ignores the fact that an Award may be in Defendants’
favor. The argument is frivolous.
 
Plaintiff
also argues that where a dispute is resolved by someone only considering the law
governing that dispute and defenses of the Defendant (i.e. no consideration of any
evidence or any legal analysis of the parties applying the law to the facts) such
a process amounts to substantive unconscionability. Further, it gives significant
advantage to the Defendant where the arbitrator only considers the Defendants affirmative
defenses in deciding the matter.
 
            This
interpretation of the language evidences a lack of reading comprehension by Plaintiff’s
counsel. The language upon which Plaintiff bases this unfounded argument is as follows:
“Resolution of all disputes shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims
and defenses pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including but
not limited to, notions of ”just cause") other than such controlling law.”
The reference to “law governing” means “law governing the claims” and “law governing
defenses pleaded.” 
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (4)  All
types of relief available in court:
 
The agreement
is silent as to the types of relief available. As such, this requirement is implied
as a matter of law. (Sanchez, supra,
172 Cal.App.4th at 176.)
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
 (5)  Does
not require employee to pay unreasonable
costs or any arbitrator’s fees or expenses as a condition to access to arbitration:
 
The agreement
is silent as to who will pay the arbitrator’s fees and costs of arbitration. As
such, this requirement is implied as a matter of law. (Sanchez, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at 176.)
Defendant employer shall pay all arbitrator’s fees and costs of arbitration.
 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 
Accordingly,
the minimum Armendariz requirements are satisfied. 
 
            As such, the
Court finds that an agreement exists whereby Plaintiff agreed to submit all of the
claims asserted in his Complaint to mandatory arbitration. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to demonstrate that a triable issue of material fact exists. 
 
            Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
 
The doctrine of unconscionability was
summarized in Walnut Producers of California
v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645-48 as follows:

“ ‘To briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine has
“ ‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression”
’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining 
power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ … or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results.” [Citation.]
The procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of
a contract of adhesion, “ ‘which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the
contract or reject it.’ ” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable terms may take various
forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.’ [Citation.]” (Citation
omitted.)

“Under this approach, both the procedural and substantive elements must be met before
a contract or term will be deemed unconscionable. Both, however, need not be present
to the same degree. A sliding scale is applied
so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term
is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Citations omitted.)


(Bold emphasis added.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“The procedural element of the unconscionability
analysis concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time. [Citation.] The element focuses on oppression or surprise.
[Citation.] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power that results
in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise
is defined as ‘ “the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain
are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the
disputed terms.” ’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion
contract. An adhesion contract is “a standardized contract … imposed upon the subscribing
party without an opportunity to negotiate the terms.” (Citation omitted.) “The term
signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)

The California Supreme Court has consistently stated that “ ‘[t]he procedural element
of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion
… .’ ” (Citations omitted.)

“Whether the challenged provision is within a contract of adhesion pertains to the
oppression aspect of procedural unconscionability. A contract of adhesion is ‘ “
‘ “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength” ’ ” ’ and ‘
“ ‘ “relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract
or reject it.” ’ ” ’ (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent
unusual circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion establishes a minimal degree
of procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the availability of market alternatives.”
(Citation omitted.)
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 645-46 [bold emphasis
added].)
            
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreement was a contract of adhesion, that he was given without a chance to bargain
or time to read through before signing on the spot as part of the hire process.
Plaintiff also argues that it was provided to him in English although he was not
a native English speaker, and he did not receive a copy of the agreement in Spanish.
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that these circumstances present a significant degree
of procedural unconscionability. 
 
          However,
the fact that Plaintiff could not read the document does not render it unenforceable
in itself. 
 
A cardinal rule of contract law is that
a party's failure to read a contract, or to carefully read a contract, before signing
it is no defense to the contract's enforcement. (Citations omitted.) “To make out
a claim of fraud in the execution,” parties seeking to avoid arbitration “must show
their apparent assent to the contracts—their signatures on the client agreements—is
negated by fraud so fundamental that they were deceived as to the basic character
of the documents they signed and had no reasonable opportunity to learn the truth.”
( [*873] Citations omitted.) Accordingly, “[a] necessary element of the defense
of fraud in the execution is reasonable reliance,” and “[g]enerally, it is not reasonable
to fail to read a contract; this is true even if the plaintiff relied on the defendant's
assertion that it was not necessary to read the contract.” (Citation omitted.)

(Desert Outdoor Advertising v. Superior Court
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 866, 872-73.)
 
The fact that the arbitration terms
and significance were not explained to him adds to the procedural unconscionability,
though. (Nguyen v. Applied Medical Resources
Corp. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 232, 249-50.) Altogether, there is a significant
degree of procedural unconscionability.
 
            Under the sliding
scale approach, then, Plaintiffs must demonstrate at least a small degree of substantive
unconscionability. 
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
“A provision is substantively unconscionable
if it ‘involves contract terms that are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience,”
or that impose harsh or oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’
and ‘shock the conscience’ are not synonymous with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an unconscionability
determination on the reasonableness of a contract provision would inject an inappropriate
level of judicial subjectivity into the analysis.  ‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability”
it is important that courts not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening
to change contractual terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the court
believes the terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the conscience.’ [Citations.]”
(Citation omitted
 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 647-48.)
 
            Plaintiff
agues that the agreement is unenforceable because the reference to the “Act” in
¶ 4 does not specify the “Act.” This argument has some merit, but does not render
the agreement substantively unconscionable. Reasonably construed, the “Act” applies
to either the AAA or CAA, or both, as the AAA and CAA are reference in ¶ 2. This
does not present substantive unconscionability. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that there is no state specified where the arbitration could take place,
and the employer has a financial advantage and locate a retired judge in the Bahamas
and have the arbitration proceed there. As noted above, the parties are required
to mutually agree on the arbitrator, so Plaintiff could simply refuse to arbitrate
in the Bahamas. This does not present substantive unconscionability.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that there are no provisions for recovery of attorney’s fees under Labor
Code, §1194, §226(e), §2699(g). However, ¶ 4 expressly incorporates the law governing
Plaintiff’s claims which would include the right to recover attorney’s fees, as
nothing in the arbitration agreement prohibits such an award. This does not present
substantive unconscionability.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is subject to rescission due to uncertainty
as argued above. This argument is without merit for the reasons discussed above.

 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court does
not find any degree of substantive unconscionability to render the entire agreement
unenforceable under the sliding scale approach.
 
            As
for the PAGA claim, on July 17, 2023, the California Supreme Court issued its decision
in Adolph v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, holding that:
 
Where a plaintiff has brought a PAGA action comprising individual and non-individual
claims, an order compelling arbitration of the individual claims does not strip
the plaintiff of standing as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf
of other employees under PAGA.
 
(Adolph v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1114.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim and Plaintiff’s individual wage and hour claims. Plaintiff’s representative
PAGA claim shall remain in court.
 
However, the
litigation is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) There
is no need to force Plaintiff to proceed in two forums simultaneously, especially
when discovery pertaining to the PAGA claims will be more expansive than that involved
in Plaintiff’s individually arbitrated claims.
 
            The
parties are ordered to meet and confer to agree upon the arbitral forum. If the
parties are unable to agree, Defendant may request a hearing to resolve the dispute.

 
[U]nder [CCP] section 1281.6[1], the
absence of a specified forum or set of rules in an arbitration clause does not invalidate
the agreement to arbitrate. Rather, in the absence of such provisions, “the parties
to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may
agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator …”—including the forum and rules that
will govern the arbitration—or, if the parties cannot agree, “the court, on petition
of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.” (§ 1281.6.)


(HM DG, Inc. v. Amini (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1110.)
 
Regardless
of the forum, Defendant will bear all costs of arbitration and the arbitrator’s
fees. 
 
The Court
sets a status conference re: arbitration scheduling for August 19,
2024 at 8:30 a.m.


