 Case Number:  23STCV23892    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court  3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed  herein.  Counsel must contact the staff  in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the  tentative, or to argue the matter.  As  required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL  OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and  argue.  Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to  smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.  Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention  to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final  ruling.Plaintiff  alleges wage and hour violations and termination in retaliation for complaining  about his supervisor, Defendant Lee, smoking in the workplace. Defendants  filed a Cross-Complaint alleging that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant actually resigned  and copied or deleted Defendant A&O’s files which contained A&O’s  confidential and trade secret information, and using such information to  acquire A&O’s clients and vendors for his own. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  Jung Jin Park demurs to the Cross-Complaint.  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant reserved the instant hearing as a demurrer with a motion to strike, but only a demurrer was filed.  Although opposition and reply briefs were filed in reference to the motion to strike, the Court has no notice of motion to strike and supporting memorandum and thus no basis to rule on the motion to strike. TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  Jung Jin Park’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED as to the eighth  cause of action.      The motion to strike is ordered off calendar for failure to file a notice of motion and supporting memorandum as required by Code of Civil Procedure setion 1010 and Rules of Court 3.1110, 3.1112 and 3.1113.    Cross-Defendant  is ordered to answer the Cross-Complaint within 10 days. ANALYSIS Demurrer Meet  and Confer             The Declaration of Sang Hyun Park  reflects that Cross-Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer  requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41. Discussion 1.         Eighth Cause of Action (Conversion). Cross-Defendant argues that the Cross-Complaint does not  allege property which is capable of being converted, as computer files are  intangible, and there is no certain or definite value pled.   Cross-Defendant also argues that the Cross-Complaint is  uncertain as it omits the dates of conversion, nor the date of discovery.   Cross-Complainant argues that the computer files were  property, merged with or reflected in tangible property, capable to being taken  and destroyed by Cross-Defendant.   Cross-Complainant also argues that there are sufficient facts  pled that the alleged conversion occurred after Cross-Defendant’s verbal  altercation with Lee, and the value of the  information is $10,077,000.00.     The eighth cause of action is based upon the following  allegations:   98. Shortly after his verbal altercation with Lee, or later through remote  access from his home, Park accessed A&O’s computer system without  authorization, as described herein, to make copies of A&O’s files which  contained valuable trade secrets and confidential information and subsequently  deleted or otherwise destroyed those files.    99. By copying A&O’s computer files for his own use and  subsequently deleting those computer files, Park established dominion over  A&O’s computer files thereby depriving A&O of its property rights  therein.    100. Park’s conversion of A&O’s computer files was without consent.    101. Park’s conversion of A&O’s computer files was intentional.    102. As a direct, actual, and proximate result of Park’s conversion of  A&O’s computer files, as alleged, A&O has suffered damages in the  amount of $10,077,000.        (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 98 – 102 [bold  emphasis added].)   “ ‘Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the  property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the  plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the  defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and  (3) damages. …’ [Citation.]” (Citations omitted.) “ ‘Conversion is a strict  liability tort. The foundation of the action rests neither in the knowledge nor  the intent of the defendant. Instead, the tort consists in the breach of an absolute  duty; the act of conversion itself is tortious. Therefore,  questions of the defendant's good faith, lack of knowledge, and motive are  ordinarily immaterial. [Citations.]’ [Citation.] The  basis of a conversion action ‘ “rests upon the unwarranted interference by  defendant with the dominion over the property of the plaintiff from which  injury to the latter results. Therefore, neither good nor bad faith,  neither care nor negligence, neither knowledge nor ignorance, are the gist of  the action.” [*209]  [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Citations omitted.) The  unauthorized transfer of property constitutes a conversion. (Citation omitted.) Money may be the subject of conversion if the  claim involves a specific, identifiable sum; it is not necessary that each coin  or bill be earmarked. (Citation  omitted.)  (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014)  223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208-09 [bold emphasis added].)               Financial information and intangible  interests in a check or customer list may be the subject of conversion:    Credit card, debit card, or PayPal information may be the subject of  a conversion. In In  re Easysaver Rewards Litig., supra, 737 F.Supp.2d 1159, the  plaintiffs filed a class action lawsuit against defendants Provide and EMI. The  plaintiffs alleged that as a part of the “ ‘revenue generating efforts’ ” of  Provide, an operator of several Internet businesses, it “ ‘routinely and  fraudulently transmit[ted] its consumers’ credit card, debit card and/or Paypal  information (“Private Payment Information”) to its third party marketing  partners.’ ” (Id. at p. 1163.) The plaintiffs alleged that EMI was Provide's  marketing partner, and EMI “ ‘fraudulently charge[d] the cards or  accounts [*213]  without permission under the guise that’ Provide's  customers have ‘supposedly joined a savings program known as EASYSAVER Rewards,  which [EMI] manages on [Provide's] behalf.’ ” (Id. at pp. 1163–1164.) The  plaintiffs further alleged that “ ‘the EASYSAVER Rewards program … [was]  nothing more than a sham.’ ” (Id. at p. 1164.) The plaintiffs in that case alleged, inter  alia, that Provide wrongfully converted their private payment  information. (Id. at p. 1179.) Provide filed a motion to dismiss, inter alia,  the conversion claim alleged against it for failure to state a claim upon which  relief could be granted. (Id. at pp. 1163, 1180.) The federal district court  denied the motion as to that claim, stating, “Plaintiffs define ‘Private  Payment Information’ as the consumers' credit card, debit card and/or PayPal  account information. … Provide argues that … the intangible financial  information … [does not] qualify as ‘property’ that can be converted. [¶] …  Historically, the tort [of conversion] was limited to tangible property and did  not apply to intangible property (with an exception for intangible property  represented by documents, such as stock certificates). [Citation.] Modern courts, however, have permitted conversion  claims against intangible interests such as checks and customer lists. Acme Paper Co. v. Goffstein, [supra,] 125 Cal.App.2d [at p.] 179 … ; Palm Springs-La Quinta Dev. Co. v. Kieberk  Corp., 46 Cal.App.2d 234 [115 P.2d 548] (1941)(conversion of index cards with information on potential customers,  including their financial standing); see Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek, 46 Cal.App.4th 1559 [54 Cal.Rptr.2d 468] (1996) (leaving open  question whether confidential codes to gain computer access could be converted  because trespass to personal property claim existed); see generally Kremen  v. Cohen, [supra,] 337 F.3d [at p.] 1030 … (noting modern rejection of hard line  between tangible and intangible property and holding plaintiff could state  conversion claim as to internet domain name). [¶] … [¶] Although there  is no clear authority, the Court concludes that [the] Plaintiffs may state a  conversion claim based upon the misappropriation of their Private Payment  Information, which was then used to make allegedly unauthorized debits from  their financial accounts. Possession of the debit card or PayPal account  information is similar to the intangible property interest in a check. Acme Paper, 125 Cal.App.2d at  179. [The p]laintiffs assert the right to control the use of their Private  Payment Information, which can be used to withdraw funds from their bank  accounts. See In  Re Checking Account Overdraft Litig., 694 F.Supp.2d 1302, 1323  (S.D. Fla. 2010) (applying California law, holding that conversion action is  available for wrongful debiting of funds from customer's account because it  interfered with [the] plaintiffs' right to possess and use those funds).” (Id. at pp. 1179–1180, citation  omitted.)   (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal. App.  4th 202, 212-13 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)               Based on the above authorities,  conversion of confidential customers lists may be the subject of conversion. Moreover,  the tort of trespass to chattels is another possible theory of liability[1].     Dubbed by  Prosser the "little brother of conversion," the tort of trespass  to chattels allows recovery for interferences with possession of personal  property "not sufficiently important to be classed as conversion, and so  to compel the defendant to pay the full value of the thing with which he has  interfered." (Prosser & Keeton, Torts (5th ed. 1984) § 14, pp. 85-86.)   Though not amounting to conversion, the defendant's interference  must, to be actionable, have caused some injury to the chattel or to the  plaintiff's rights in it. Under California law, trespass to chattels "lies  where an intentional interference with the possession of personal  property has proximately  [*1351]  caused  injury." (Thrifty-Tel,  Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566 [54  Cal. Rptr. 2d 468], italics added.) In cases of interference with possession of  personal property not amounting to conversion, "the owner has a cause of  action for trespass or case, and  may recover only the actual damages suffered by reason of the impairment of the  property or the loss of its use." ( Zaslow v. Kroenert, supra, 29 Cal.2d at p. 551, italics added; accord, Jordan v. Talbot (1961) 55 Cal.2d 597, 610 [12 Cal. Rptr. 488, 361 P.2d 20].) In  modern American law generally, "[t]respass remains as an occasional remedy  for minor interferences, resulting  in some damage, but not sufficiently serious or  sufficiently important to amount to the greater tort" of conversion. (Prosser  & Keeton, Torts, supra,  § 15, p. 90, italics added.)   (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th  1342, 1350-51.)               Here, the eighth cause of action  alleges that Cross-Defendant caused a loss of use by remotely deleting the  information, which caused Cross-Complainant damage in the amount of the value  of the information. At the very least, this would state a cause of action for  trespass to chattel. The details which Cross-Defendant seeks may be ascertained  through discovery.                The demurrer to the eighth cause of  action is OVERRULED.               Cross-Defendant is ordered to answer  the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.     