  Case Number:  22STCV24086    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



POURANDOKHT POURAT,  
 
  
         vs.
 
SHAHRAM MOUSSAZADEH. 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV24086
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024



 
Cross-Defendant Hormoz Pourat’s, in pro
per, motion for leave
to transfer the title of the Subject Property is denied.
Cross-Defendant Hormoz Pourat’s, in pro
per, motion to file a motion is denied.
 
Cross-Defendant Hormoz Pourat (“Hormoz”) (“Cross-Defendant”)
moves in pro per for a motion leave to transfer
the title of the Subject Property. 
(Notice of Motion Transfer, pg. 1.)
Cross-Defendant moves to file a motion for
receiving damages for one million dollars from his brother’s will, for his pain
and suffering, elderly abuse, and elderly financial abuse from Defendant
Shahram Moussazadeh (“Moussazadeh”) (“Defendant”).  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
 
          Legal Standard      
          Entry of defendant’s default
instantaneously cuts off its right to appear in the action. A defaulted
defendant or cross-defendant has no right to participate in the proceedings
until either (a) its default is set aside (in which event, it may respond to the
complaint), or (b) a default judgment is entered (in which event it may
appeal.  (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa
AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.)
Entry
of default deprives the court of jurisdiction to consider any motion other than
a motion for relief from default.   (W.A.
Rose Co. v. Municipal Court for Oakland-Piedmont Judicial District, Alameda
County (1959) 176 Cal.App.2d 67, 72 [stating superior court clerk
improperly refused to enter default and writ issued to prevent court from
considering defendant’s late-filed motion for change of venue].)
 
          Discussion
          Cross-Defendant does not have standing
to amend the Complaint because he is not a Plaintiff in the original
Complaint.  Cross-Defendant is only a
party to Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint, in which entry of default was
entered against Cross-Defendant in March 2023.
 
Conclusion
Cross-Defendant’s motions are
denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  