 Case Number:  24STCV14859    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CLAUDIA
  WEIGHT,
  
         vs.
 
BLUE CROSS OF
  CALIFORNIA, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV14859
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024



 
Defendant Preferred
IPA of California’s unopposed demurrer to Plaintiff Claudia Weight’s 3rd cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Defendant Preferred
IPA of California’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint is
denied as moot. 
 
Defendant Preferred IPA of California (“Preferred IPA”) (“Moving
Defendant”) demurs unopposed to the 3rd cause of action alleged in Plaintiff
Claudia Weight’s (“Weight”) (“Plaintiff”) complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f), 430.41.)[1] 
Moving Defendant also moves to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint.  (Notice of MTS,
pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§435, 436, 437.)
 
          Request
for Judicial Notice
          Moving
Defendant’s 9/25/24 request for judicial notice of (1) the March 12, 1996,
Articles of Incorporation of Preferred IPA of California, a
professional corporation, on file in the office of the
Secretary of State of the State of California (D-RJN, Exh. 1) is granted.
          Moving
Defendant’s 9/25/24 request for judicial notice of (1) the April 2, 2024,
Motion to Strike filed by Preferred IPA in Alis Masihi Honarchian v. Blue
Cross of California, Preferred IPA of California (Case No. 23STCV30842), in
Department 16 of the Los Angeles Superior Court, Central District; and (2) the
June 6, 2024, Minute Order granting Preferred IPA’s Motion to Strike in Alis
Masihi Honarchian v. Blue Cross of California, Preferred
IPA of California (Case No. 23STCV30842),
entered by the Hon. Steve Cochran in Department 16 of the Los Angeles Superior Court,
Central District, is denied as irrelevant.
 
1.    
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on September 18,
2024, he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel telephonically to discuss
the instant demurrer and motion to strike and the parties were unable to reach
an agreement.  (See Decl. of Koeller
¶¶6-7.)  Moving Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving
Defendant’s demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed her operative Complaint on June 13, 2024 against Moving Defendant and
Non-moving Defendant Blue Cross of California DBA Anthem Blue Cross (“Blue
Cross”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging four causes of action: (1)
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing [against Blue
Cross]; (2) Breach of Contract [against Blue Cross]; (3) Violations
of Business & Professions Code §17200 [against Defendants]; and (4) Negligence
[against Moving Defendant].
Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer on September 25,
2024.  As of the date of this hearing no
opposition to the demurrer has been filed.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges that in August 2018 she was diagnosed
with a duodenal fistula.  (Complaint ¶9.)
 Plaintiff alleges her surgeon, Dr. Sujit
Kulkarni of the USC Keck Hospital, decided to perform a Roux-en-Y
hepaticojejunostomy, in which the bile ducts are rerouted to attach at the
jejunum, the middle part of the small intestine, therefore bypassing the
duodenum and the fistula that is present there.  (Complaint ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges her surgeon successfully
performed this procedure, and following this surgery, she enjoyed five years of
good health.  (Complaint ¶9.)  
Plaintiff alleges that On June 19, 2023, she went to the
emergency room with severe pain on the right side of her stomach.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges her original surgeon, Dr.
Kulkarni, assessed her and discovered stones and infection in her bile ducts.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges Dr. Kulkarni recommended
that she have a biliary drain placed to allow the stones and infection to flush
out of her system.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges she was discharged on June
24, 2023, with a recommendation from Dr. Kulkarni to return for a follow-up
appointment in 10 days.  (Complaint ¶10.)
 Plaintiff alleges Dr. Kulkarni’s office
submitted an authorization request for this follow-up appointment to Moving Defendant.
(Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges
Moving Defendant delayed approving this authorization for over a month.   (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges that instead of seeing Dr.
Kulkarni for a follow-up 10 days after her procedure, she was not able to see
Dr. Kulkarni until August 7, 2023, 45 days after her procedure.  (Complaint ¶10.)  
Plaintiff alleges at this follow-up appointment, Dr.
Kulkarni recommended that she undergo an open Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy
revision as soon as possible.  (Complaint
¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges that during this
surgery, the drain the drain that was still implanted in her abdomen would be
removed.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff alleges Dr. Kulkarni’s office
submitted a prior authorization request to Moving Defendant for this surgery
and subsequent hospital stay.  (Complaint
¶11.)  
Plaintiff alleges that on August 23, 2023, she received a
letter from Moving Defendant denying Dr. Kulkarni’s request for surgery.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendant instead
authorized her to see a Dr. Natalie Saiser, whom Plaintiff had never seen
before.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges when she saw Dr. Saiser on
September 19, 2023, Dr. Saiser declined to treat her.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges Dr. Saiswer stated that she
was unfamiliar with Plaintiff’s case and medical history, and that it was in Plaintiff’s
best interest to continue in Dr. Kulkarni’s care instead.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges that immediately following
Dr. Saiser’s decision, Dr. Kulkarni’s office submitted a second authorization
request to Moving Defendant on September 19, 2023.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges Dr. Kulkarni’s office
reached out to Non-moving Defendant Blue Cross regarding the authorization
request, but neither Dr. Kulkarni’s office nor Blue Cross were able to contact Moving
Defendant regarding this request. 
(Complaint ¶12.)  
Plaintiff alleges that for the next several weeks, she did
not hear anything from Moving Defendant regarding the pending authorization
request and was not able to get in contact with any representative of Moving
Defendant despite numerous phone calls.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges she reached out to Blue
Cross several times for their assistance in contacting Moving Defendant, but Blue
Cross was also unable to contact Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges that on October 9, 2023, she
filed a complaint with Blue Cross about Moving Defendant.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges she was also forced to file
an emergency appeal for continued care with Dr. Kulkarni on October 26, 2023.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges that at this point she had
had the drain for almost four months. 
(Complaint ¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges that on October 30, 2023, Moving
Defendant finally approved one appointment with Dr. Kulkarni, but did not
authorize any further care.  (Complaint
¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges the drain did
indeed improve her condition, so Dr. Kulkarni hoped they would be able to
remove the drain without having to perform revision surgery.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges that in order to determine
it was safe to do so, Dr. Kulkarni ordered a cholangiogram, a radiographic
image of the bile ducts.  (Complaint
¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges if the
cholangiogram did not show any filling defects, strictures, or bile duct
dilation, she would be able to avoid surgical intervention and have the drain
removed.  (Complaint ¶14.)  
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendant yet again delayed
authorization for almost two months.  (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges that during this time, she
frequently called both Moving Defendant and Blue Cross, filed multiple
complaints, and despite her best efforts, was told time and time again that the
only thing she could do was wait, as the authorization was still pending.  (Complaint ¶15.)  
Plaintiff alleges she was finally able to receive the
cholangiogram on December 22, 2023, almost two months after it was requested,
and about six months after the drain was placed.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges that, unfortunately, the
cholangiogram showed severe dilation of a hepatic bile duct, meaning she would
indeed require revision surgery.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges the only thing Dr. Kulkarni
could do was replace the drain, and once again request authorization for the
surgery that was denied by Moving Defendant in August 2023.  (Complaint ¶16.)  
Plaintiff alleges that since June 2023, her care has been
delayed and denied by Moving Defendant over and over again.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges that beginning with a
follow-up appointment that should have taken place within ten days, to denied
appointments, denied surgery, and delayed diagnostic imaging, Moving Defendant
has made it almost impossible for Plaintiff to get the care that she so
desperately needs.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges that on top of Moving
Defendant’s improper conduct, Blue Cross has done nothing to intervene on Plaintiff’s
behalf.   (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges she has had the drain
placed with a tube protruding from her abdomen since June of 2023, while Moving
Defendant continues to deny and delay her access to care.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges she has yet to undergo the
surgery requested in August and will require routine drain changes until it is
possible for her to obtain this care.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges she is still waiting for
either Moving Defendant or Blue Cross to treat her with the care she deserves
and continues to suffer in the meantime. 
(Complaint ¶17.)
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendant demurs to the 3rd
cause of action on the basis it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against it because the Complaint is devoid of allegations
showing Moving Defendant engaged in conduct or business practices that were
“unlawful,” “unfair,” or “fraudulent.”  Moving Defendant demurs to the 3rd cause of
action on the basis it is impermissibly vague. Moving Defendant demurs to the
cause of action on the basis Plaintiff lacks standing because her Complaint
does not allege any facts indicating that Plaintiff paid money to Moving
Defendant or that it acquired her money or property through any wrongful act.  (Demurrer, pg. 3.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Violation of
Business & Professions Code §17200 (3rd COA)
A cause of action for unfair
business practices under the unfairness prong must allege the following
elements: (1) a business practice; (2) that is unfair, unlawful or fraudulent;
and (3) an authorized remedy.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code §17200; Paulus v. Bob
Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 676; see also People ex rel. Dept. of Motor Vehicles v.
Cars 4 Causes (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 [“An ‘unlawful’ practice requires violation
of another statute, and a business practice may be ‘unfair’ even if not
otherwise proscribed by statute as long as the practice is not expressly
authorized by law.”]; Bank of the West v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266 [“The Unfair Business Practices
Act defines ‘unfair competition’ as any ‘unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising….’ (§
17200.) The Legislature intended this ‘sweeping language’ to include ‘anything
that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is
forbidden by law.’”]; Drum v. San
Fernando Valley Bar Ass’n (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 256 [“a split of
authority developed among the Courts of Appeal, which have applied three
different tests for unfairness in consumer cases.”].) 
In consumer cases, in consumer
cases, the following guidelines apply to determine whether a practice is
unfair: “(1) the consumer injury must be substantial; (2) the injury must not
be outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or competition; and
(3) it must be an injury that consumers themselves could not reasonably have
avoided.”  (Camacho v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1394, 1403; see Aron
v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 796, 804 [“[A]lthough
the UCL is broadly written to permit courts to restrain dishonest or unfair
business dealings, its scope is not unlimited. ‘Courts may not simply impose
their own notions of the day as to what is fair or unfair. Specific legislation
may limit the judiciary’s power to declare conduct unfair. If the Legislature
has permitted certain conduct or considered a situation and concluded no action
should lie, courts may not override that determination. When specific
legislation provides a ‘safe harbor,’ plaintiffs may not use the general unfair
competition law to assault that harbor.’”].)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
conduct as alleged above, in 1) denying medically necessary treatment without
conducting a full, fair, and thorough investigation, 2) using software
interfaces for utilization review nurses and utilization review physicians that
ensure that its reviewers will not conduct full, fair, and thorough
investigations, 3) incentivizing its reviewers to deny medically necessary
care, and 4) undermining its formal contractual promises of covered treatment
through its negotiations and funding of defendant medical group, which
necessarily limit and frustrate members’ access to timely medically necessary
treatment, constitutes acts of unfair, unlawful, misleading, and fraudulent
business practices as set forth in Business & Professions Code section
17200 et seq.  (Complaint ¶37.)
          Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that Defendants employ these policies and practices to further their
own financial interests at the expense of its members’ health and wellbeing.  (Complaint ¶38.)
Plaintiff alleges she has
suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as the result of
Defendants’ conduct in that she was not provided the coverage promised under
her health care policy despite paying premiums.  (Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff respectfully requests that the
Court order restitution and any equitable relief deemed necessary by the Court
including injunctive relief to stop Blue Cross’ and Moving Defendant’s wrongful
practices.  (Complaint ¶39.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a
cause of action for Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200 against
Moving Defendant.  Plaintiff fails to
allege unlawful or fraudulent conduct against Moving Defendant, leading this
Court to an analysis under the unfairness prong of the cause of action.  Plaintiff fails to allege an authorized
remedy under the unfairness prong.  To
bring a claim under §17200, a plaintiff must have suffered an injury in fact
and lost money or property as a result of the defendant’s conduct, and
defendant must have acquired the plaintiff’s money or property.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §17204; Kwikset
Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that she suffered
injury because she “was not provided the coverage promised under her health
care policy despite paying premiums.” 
(Complaint ¶39.)  However,
Plaintiff’s health insurance policy was with Blue Cross, not Moving
Defendant.  (Complaint ¶9.) Plaintiff
does not allege that she paid any premiums or other money to Moving
Defendant.  (Complaint ¶¶10-17, 39.)
Furthermore, Plaintiff
improperly attempts to use the Section 17200 claim as a “catch-all” for her
tort and contract causes of action. 
Moving Defendant is not named as a defendant in Plaintiff’s causes of
action for breach of contract or breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing because Plaintiff and Moving Defendant did not have a contractual
relationship, as alleged.  It is well
settled that a §17200 claim cannot be used as a “catch all” cause of action or
“all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.”  (Shaolian v. Safeco Insurance Co. (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 268, 275-76; Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1150.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Moving Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is denied as moot.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendant’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  