 Case Number:  22STCV11188    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 1, 2022, Angela Phung (“Plaintiff”), by and through her guardian ad
litem, Van Nguyen, filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”) and Does 1-50 for negligence (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2,
subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)), negligent supervision of students (Gov. Code, §
815.2, subd. (a)), and negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employees
(Gov. Code, §§ 815.2, subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)). 
On
April 5, 2022, the Court appointed Van Nguyen to act as Plaintiff’s guardian ad
litem. 
On
June 22, 2022, LAUSD filed an answer. 
On
December 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Veronica
Guinez (“Guinez”) as Doe 1. On December
5, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Austyn Chade
(“Chade”) as Doe 2. 
On
January 23, 2023, Guinez, representing herself, filed an answer in her
individual capacity and purporting to act as guardian ad litem for Chade. 
On
November 14, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a
first amended complaint and ordered Plaintiff to file and serve the first
amended complaint within 10 days of the hearing on the motion.  
The
Court’s records do not show that Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint.  However, on December 18, 2023, LAUSD filed an
answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
March 8, 2024, LAUSD filed a motion to continue trial to be heard on April 9,
2024.  The motion is unopposed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 29, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
LAUSD
asks the Court to continue trial to March 25, 2025. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.)  

DISCUSSION              
          LAUSD asks the Court to continue the trial to March 25,
2025 because (1) LAUSD’s counsel has conflicts that would make them unavailable
by the current trial date, (2) the parties are engaged in good faith settlement
discussions, and (3) LAUSD needs additional time for a hearing on a motion for
summary judgment.  LAUSD does not ask the
Court to continue or reopen discovery or related motion cut-off dates. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to March 25, 2025.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to continue
the trial.  The Court continues the trial
to March 25, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final Status Conference is continued to March
11, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  Discovery and related dates will continue to
be based on the April 29, 2024 trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.