 Case Number:  23STCV21259    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 5, 2023, Plaintiff Meir Reichman (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and
through his guardian ad litem Mitchell Reichman, filed this action against
Defendants John Philip Ingco Panis, Luis Panis, and Does 1-60 for general
negligence and motor vehicle tort. 
On
February 27, 2024, Petitioner Mitch Reichman filed a petition to approve the compromise
of minor Meir Reichman’s action, to be heard on April 9, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PETITIONER’S REQUEST 
Petitioner
Mitch Reichman asks the Court to approve the compromise of the pending action of
Plaintiff Meir Reichman. 
DISCUSSION      
In
the Court’s January 23, 2024 order denying Petitioner's petition for expedited approval of a minor's compromise without prejudice, the Court explained that the benefits that Plaintiff
will receive from his own insurance carrier are not a “settlement” amount for
purposes of the petition to approve a minor’s compromise and Petitioner should not include these benefits in the petition.  The Court also
explained that the petition should calculate attorney’s fees based only on the
amount that Defendants and their
insurance carriers will pay to settle the case (i.e., $15,000). The Court stated:
“Payments from [Plaintiff’s] own insurance carrier to cover [Plaintiff’s]
medical or other expenses should not be used as a basis for calculating
attorney’s fees.” 
Nonetheless,
in the petition filed on February 27, 2024, Petitioner has included not only Defendants’
$15,000.00 payment, but also the amount that Plaintiff’s own insurer has agreed
to pay ($20,000.00).  (See, e.g., Section
16a, Attachment 10c.)  The Court
understands that Plaintiff’s counsel negotiated a “global settlement” that
includes these amounts.  However, the
Court is concerned only with the appropriateness of the compromise of Plaintiff’s
claims against the Defendants named in this case, including the attorney’s fees
requested. Petitioner has provided no
authority that would authorize an award of attorney’s fees for Plaintiff’s
efforts to seek insurance benefits from his own carrier.  That is not to say that counsel is not entitled to compensation for this work, an issue the Court does not decide.  Instead, the issue of whether counsel is entitled to compensation for securing benefits from Plaintiff's own insurer is not before the Court. 
The
Court denies the petition without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES without prejudice the petition for
approval of the compromise of the pending action of Plaintiff Meir Reichman filed
by Petitioner Mitch Reichman on February 27, 2024. 
          Petitioner is ordered to give notice of the ruling. 
Petitioner
is ordered to file the proof of service of the ruling with the Court within
five days.