 Case Number:  23VECV05477    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  T CALHOUN V SHAYA 23VECV05477
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Yosi Shaya’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendant to file and serve VERIFIED ANSWER within 20 days.
Defendant Yosi Shaya’s Motion to
Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Introduction 
Defendant Yosi Shaya (Defendant)
demurred to Plaintiff Tatia Calhoun’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue, the first
cause of action (COA) for fraudulent inducement to contract, the second COA for
fraudulent concealment, the third COA for fraudulent misrepresentation, the
fourth COA for gross negligent misrepresentation, the fifth COA for negligent
misrepresentation, the eighth COA for breach of the implied warranty of good
faith and fair dealing, the tenth COA for extortion and attempted extortion,
the eleventh COA for violation of the Tenant’s Rights Act, the thirteenth COA
for unjust enrichment, and the fourteenth COA for conversion.
Defendant further moved to strike
certain factual allegations; the prayer for actual damages; the prayer for
substantial damages; the prayer for consequential damages; the prayer for
punitive damages; and the request for attorneys’ fees.
Opposition was due August 29,
2024 and none was filed by Plaintiff. 
There was no request by Plaintiff to amend the complaint and Plaintiff
did not participate in meet and confer with counsel before the demurrer was
filed.  Plaintiff has not established
that the complaint can be amended.
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the first
five COAs being fraud-based claims lack specific fact pleading and are
conclusory.  Defendant argued that the
eight COA for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing failed to
allege facts showing any affirmative steps by Defendant to prevent Plaintiff
from obtaining the benefits of the lease or prevented Plaintiff from paying
rent.  Defendant argued that the tenth
COA for extortion failed to allege facts to plead any threat.  Defendant argued that the eleventh COA for
violation of the Tenant’s Rights Act is uncertain because no such Act
exists.  Defendant argued that the
thirteenth COA for unjust enrichment is failed to allege facts showing
Defendant unjustly received any benefit. 
Defendant argued that the fourteenth COA for conversion failed to allege
facts to plead a taking or wrongful withholding of Plaintiff’s property.
In the motion to strike,
Defendant argued that the allegations in the entirety of Complaint paragraphs
13, 16, 37, 42, 43, 48, 49, 50, 51, 54.f., 54.j., 56-60, and portions of
paragraphs 21, 22, 29, 35.f., and 52 are immaterial.  Defendant argued that “actual damages” is
superfluous when Plaintiff is seeking compensatory damages.  Defendant argued that “substantial damages”
is not a recognized measure of damages. 
Defendant argued that the Prayer for “Consequential Damages” is
immaterial to the non-contract COAs. 
Defendant argued that punitive damages is improperly requested in
non-intentional tort COAs.  When punitive
damages is alleged in intentional tort COAs, the claim fails to allege specific
facts to plead malice, oppression, or fraud.
The Court finds the arguments in
both the demurrer and motion to strike to be persuasive. Without an opposition,
Plaintiff failed to show how the pleading defects can be cured.
In the absence of anything from
Plaintiff, no leave to amend is granted.
The demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.