  Case Number:  23VECV02280    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  T BEDOY V LAC MTA 23VECV02280
Tentative rulings/MILs
 
Plaintiff's MILS
No oppositions filed
1.           Deny as to
reading instructions, grant as to mini opening less than 5 mins. The court does
not restrict the amount of time for voir dire except that the time be
reasonable.
2.           It depends
on whether the plaintiff has received Medi-cal or Medicare for his claimed
injuries in which case there would need to be evidence of the amount of those
bills and the court would expect a stipulation as to that amount.  As to private health insurance, the court
will not allow evidence of that.  As to
the rates for Medicare or Medi-cal, it depends on what the experts may say and
whether those rates may be related to what is reasonable. The court will
discuss.
3.           There is
no MIL#3.
4.           A.          Deny. 
The experts are different specialties and may render opinions within
their specialty as long as they establish proper foundation for their opinions.
              B.           The medical chronology will not be
received in evidence (the title to this section refers to a, injury diagram, is
this the same as the medical chron.?)
5.           Deny to
the extent that medical experts may rely on the records for their opinions but the
records themselves and the statements in them cannot be stated because they are
or contain hearsay.
6.           Deny to
the extent that opposing party's experts have opinions which may refer to those
other conditions.
7.           Grant to
the extent that there can be no mention at any time about a fall from a horse unless
the matter is discussed with the court and evidence in support is provided.
8.           It depends
on whether this is relevant to any party's theory of the case.  The court will discuss.
9.           It depends,
the court will discuss.  Did Dr. Sisto
admit to the mistake?  Did he state what
the source of the information was?
Defendant's MILS
None
 