  Case Number:  23STCP03922    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  82 Kevin Mancia,                                                           Case No. 23STCP03922
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: July 16, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
City
of Los Angeles, et al.                                        Department:
82 
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
[Tentative] Order Granting
Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
            
INTRODUCTION

 
             Petitioner Kevin Mancia (“Officer Mancia” or
“Petitioner”) is an officer with the Los Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD”).  Petitioner and his partner, Sebastian
Salsgiver (“Officer Salsgiver”), responded to a call for assistance from the
Los Angeles County Psychological Evaluation Team (the “PET Team”).  The PET Team determined that Carlos Santos Jr.
(“Santos”) satisfied the criteria for a hold under Welfare and Institutions
Code section 5150.  While Petitioner attempted
to “build a rapport” with Santos, Officer Salsgiver separated himself from
Petitioner and positioned himself behind Santos “to prevent Santos from
escaping.”  (AR 303.)  Notwithstanding Petitioner’s efforts, Santos pulled
out a can of pepper spray and sprayed Petitioner.  Petitioner used his taser on Santos, which
was ineffective, and then used his own pepper spray, which resolved the
situation.  
 
            The
watch commander determined that Petitioner’s use of force and tactics were
within policy but counseled both officers on “creating a crossfire situation
had it escalated to deadly force.”  (AR
303.)  The command staff disagreed with
the finding on tactics, culminating in a Board of Rights hearing.  The hearing officer commended Petitioner for
his “overall professional behavior in managing a difficult situation.”  (AR 404.) 
The hearing officer found that Officer Salsgiver—not Petitioner—“created
separation between the two officers leading to a crossfire configuration.”  (Ibid.)  According to the testimony, Officer Salsgiver
was not investigated and did not receive an adverse finding for poor
tactics.  (AR 93, 142-143.)  The hearing officer noted that such an
outcome “could appear to be unfair to Officer Mancia” but found that “Officer
Mancia is responsible for acting within policy regardless of what any other
officer might do.”  (AR 404.)  The hearing officer sustained the administrative
disapproval of tactics.  
 
            In
order to do so, there must have been a “substantial deviation” from training or
policy without justification.  Contrary
to the hearing officer’s finding, there was no “separation” within the meaning
of the policy because the officers were close enough to render aid to each
other.  Nor was there any tactical
decision that was a “substantial deviation” from the policy.  The mere existence of a crossfire situation
is not a violation of training or policy. 
Rather, officers must recognize and address the crossfire potential, which
occurred in this case.  Moreover, the
hearing officer did not consider whether there was justification for the
tactics, viz., the need to prevent Santos from escaping and the need for
Petitioner to maintain position because he had “taken the lead” on talking to
Santos.  Therefore, the court grants the
petition and remands the case to the Board of Rights for reconsideration in
light of the court’s opinion and judgment. 
  
BACKGROUND 
 
            On
June 10, 2022, Petitioner and his partner, Officer Salsgiver, responded to a
call for police assistance from the PET Team. 
(AR 11, 17-18, 298.)  The comments
of the call stated, “Subject, Santos, Carlos. Male Hispanic. 27 years old.
Placed on a hold refusing to go. Paranoid/delusional.” (AR 18.)  The PET team requested a police presence while
Santos was placed on a psychiatric hold pursuant to section 5150 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code. (AR 17-18.)
 
Petitioner
activated his body worn camera (the “camera”) when he arrived on scene.  (See AR 283.)  He spoke with a PET team member, who told
Petitioner that Santos had a diagnosis of paranoia and schizophrenia but no
history of drugs, alcohol, or violent tendencies.  (AR 20; AR 283 at 17:43-17:40.)  According to the PET team member, Santos had
told his family he was an assassin and was going to start killing people. (AR
21.)
 
A
PET Team member led Petitioner and Officer Salsgiver to Santos, who was located
on a narrow walkway on the side of his house. 
(See AR 283 at 18:04:25-42.) 
Santos told the PET Team member and officers to “go away” and went
inside the house through the backdoor along this walkway.  (Ibid.)  Petitioner heard screaming inside the
residence, so he and Officer Salsgiver went through the front door to see what
was happening.  (AR 42, 391, 283 at
18:04-18:05.)  Shortly thereafter, Santos
exited the residence through the backdoor. 
(Ibid.)  Officer Salsgiver
and Petitioner
asked Santos’s father to lock the back door to prevent Santos from coming back
inside the house.  (Ibid.)  Petitioner and Officer
Salsgiver then exited
the residence through the front door and walked back to the narrow pathway on
the side of the house to meet Santos.  Petitioner
turned to Officer Salsgiver and stated, “It looks like we’re going to be
chasing this guy in circles.”  (AR 43,
391, 283 at 18:06:02.)  
 
Petitioner
met Santos at the narrow walkway behind the residence.  (AR 23-24.) 
Santos stood in the middle of the walkway near the locked back door to
the residence, about 25 feet from Petitioner. 
(AR 27, 62.)  While Petitioner was
talking with Santos, Officer Salsgiver separated himself from Petitioner.  (AR 27-29, 62, 81-85; see AR 283 at
18:06:02-18:06:32.)  Officer Salsgiver
walked back around the front of the house, leaving Petitioner and Santos, and
then positioned himself at the far side of the narrow walkway, opposite from
Petitioner and about 25 feet from Santos. 
(Ibid.)  Officer Salsgiver
did not inform Petitioner that he was going to leave his position behind
Petitioner.  (AR 28.)  Petitioner did not realize Officer Salsgiver
had left his position until Petitioner “turned to the left . . . and realized
that only the PR, the employee from the Department of Mental Health [was] the
only one standing next to [him].”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner did not call Officer Salsgiver
back after he left his position.  (AR
62.)
 
Because
Petitioner had been told Santos had no history of violence, Petitioner made the
decision to approach Santos “to see if [he] could build a rapport with the
subject and see if he would listen to [him].” 
(AR 30, 43.)  Notwithstanding
Petitioner’s efforts, Santos closed the distance to Petitioner, pulled out a
can of pepper spray, and sprayed Petitioner.  (AR 22, 30; see AR 283 at 18:06:35-50.)  At that point, Petitioner used his taser on
Santos, which was ineffective.  (AR 30.)  Petitioner tasered Santos a second time, which
was also ineffective.  (AR 32.)  Petitioner then used his own can of pepper
spray on Santos. (AR 32.)  Around this
time, Officer Salsgiver told Santos to “drop” the pepper spray.  (AR 283 at 18:07:44-51.)  Santos eventually complied with the
command.  (Ibid.; see also AR 392
[investigative report stating that Santos complied with Salsgiver’s command to
drop the pepper spray].)  Shortly
thereafter, Petitioner and Officer Salsgiver both approached Santos, handcuffed
him, and placed him in custody.  (AR 404;
see AR 283 at 18:07:51-18:08:08.)  While
positioned at the other end of the narrow pathway, Officer Salsgiver was beyond
the range of Petitioner’s taser darts and pepper spray.  (AR 84-85.)
 
            The
LAPD initiated a “use of force investigation” because Petitioner had used his
taser and pepper spray against Santos.  Because
the LAPD was investigating Petitioner’s use of force, it also investigated his
tactics. (AR 142-43.)  The watch
commander, Lieutenant Gus Barrientos, determined that both Petitioner’s use of
force and his tactics were within policy. (AR 303.)  Lieutenant Barrientos noted that the
“[o]fficers were effective and showed restraint.”  (Ibid.)  Lieutenant Barrientos also noted that Officer
Salsgiver had approached Santos from the opposite side “[i]n an effort to
prevent Santos from escaping.”  (Ibid.)  Lieutenant Barrientos counseled the officers
that by doing so, Officer Salsgiver had created “a crossfire situation had it
escalated to deadly force.”  (Ibid.)    
 
            Captain
I Scott Williams disagreed with Lieutenant Barrientos’s finding that the
tactics were within policy.  Captain
Sonia Monico III found that Officer Mancia and his partner separated, “causing
a crossfire situation.”  (AR 304.)  Captain Monico “recommended that the tactics
should be classified as Administrative Disapproval/Training.”  (Ibid.)  Commander Jonathan Pinto, the Assistant
Commanding Officer of the West Bureau, concurred with Captain Monico’s
“recommendations.”  (AR 305.)  However, only Officer Mancia received an
adverse finding.  (AR 93, 142-43.)  Notwithstanding the findings that the
officers used poor tactics, Officer Salsgiver was not disciplined.  (AR 93, 142-43.)  
 
Petitioner’s
counsel represents that a disapproval of tactics could prevent promotion or
assignment to a specialized unit. 
Therefore, Petitioner appealed the discipline to the Board of Rights,
and a hearing was held on April 14 and April 25, 2023.  The hearing officer commended Petitioner for
his professionalism and restraint in “managing a difficult situation” and
agreed that the use of force was appropriate. 
(AR 404.)  
 
I commend Officer Mancia for his overall professional
behavior in managing a difficult situation which could have been more difficult
had he not acted as he did to restrain the suspect.  He used as little force as necessary to
achieve the suspect’s detention.  The Use
of Force was appropriate.  The objective
was achieved with no significant injury to anyone involved, and the suspect was
safely delivered to the medical team.
 
(Ibid.)  The
hearing officer found that Officer Salsgiver—not Petitioner—created the
separation that led to a potential crossfire situation.  (Ibid.)  The hearing officer noted that disciplining only
Officer Mancia “could appear to be unfair” given that Officer Salsgiver created
the problem.  (Ibid.)  Nevertheless, the hearing officer sustained
the disapproval of tactics because the hearing officer found that Petitioner
should have addressed the situation created by his partner.  (Ibid.)
On
July 19, 2023, the Chief of Police adopted the hearing officer’s recommendation
to sustain the administrative disapproval. 
(AR 401.)  This petition for writ
of administrative mandate followed.  
            
STANDARD OF
REVIEW
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because
the administrative disapproval concerns a fundamental vested right in
Petitioner’s employment with Department, the court exercises its independent
judgment on the administrative findings. 
(See Wences v. City of Los Angeles
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.) 
Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines
the administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court may draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its determinations as to the
credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In exercising its independent judgment, a
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are
contrary to the weight of the evidence.” 
(Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
Petitioner
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative
record, that the weight of the evidence does not support the administrative
findings.  (Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.) A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  
 
“On
questions of law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s]
independent judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The
interpretation of statute or regulation is a question of law.  (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.) 

 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        There must be a substantial deviation from
training or policy without justification 

 
            The
parties do not dispute that an administrative disapproval must be based upon a
“substantial deviation” from the LAPD’s training or policies without
justification.  (OB 14-15; Oppo. 8; AR 206.)  The
administrative disapproval was based on Petitioner’s tactics related to his
partner’s decision to separate, which created a “crossfire situation.”  (AR 304.) 
However, the command staff did not specify the relevant LAPD policy or
directive upon which the discipline was based. 
(See AR 303-305.)  Neither did the
hearing officer or Chief of Police in the final administrative decision.  (AR 401-404.) 

 
            B.        The cited policy applies to “foot pursuits,”
which did not occur
 
            At
the hearing, the LAPD relied on LAPD Directive No. 3.2, titled “Los Angeles
Police Department Tactics, Use of Force—Tactics Directive, Foot Pursuit
Concepts.” (AR 63-64, AR 284-90, 316-18.) 
Presumably, the decisions are based upon purported violations of this
policy.  However, this policy applies
when officers are “[c]hasing a feeling suspect on foot.”  (AR 284.) 
This is clear from the content of the policy.  For example, the directive states:
 
From the initiation of a good pursuit, officers should
continually assess the tactical situation, consider their options and decide on
a course of action to facilitate the suspect’s apprehension.  This Directive will discuss the general
tactical concepts to aid in decision making during foot pursuits to reduce the
risk to officers and the public.
 
(AR 284.)  The directive advises: “Officers must be able
to articulate the reasonable suspicion for their detention of a fleeing suspect.”  (Ibid.)  The directive requires: “Officers should
realize that flight alone does not provide reasonable suspicion to detain.” (Ibid.)
            
            Neither
the command staff nor the hearing officer made the requisite finding that
Santos was fleeing or that Petitioner was engaged in a “foot pursuit” within
the meaning of Directive 3.2.  (See AR
303-305, 401-404.)  Respondents’ counsel
argues that the directive applies because there was, in fact, a “foot pursuit”
within the meaning of this policy because “the officers followed a dangerous
Subject on foot.”  (Oppo. 9:8-9.)  Respondents’ counsel’s argument is not
supported by the weight of the evidence. 

 
            Petitioner
and Officer Salsgiver responded to a call for police presence while the PET
team placed Santos on a psychiatric hold, not a call to apprehend a “suspect.”  The court’s review of the body camera video
does not support the argument that Santos was “fleeing” because he never left
the house or its curtilage and moved at a slow pace.  To the contrary, Santos positioned himself in
the house or the side alley and demanded instead that the officers leave.  Moreover, during the hearing, the LAPD’s own
witness—Sergeant II Mario Rojas, the Wilshire Training Coordinator—testified
that the officers “were not in a foot pursuit” within the meaning of the
policy.  (AR 133-134.)  When asked by the hearing officer whether the
officers were “pursuing” Santos when he exited the house to the side walkway,
Sergeant Rojas responded: “I wouldn’t describe it like that…. Again, I would
describe especially dealing with someone who suffered from mental illness more
of a noncompliant person… [r]ather than a fleeing or pursuit person.”  (AR 138-139.) 
Sergeant Rojas stated that he “wouldn’t even describe it as a pursuit.”
(Ibid.)
 
              Based upon the foregoing, the court is not
persuaded that there was a “foot pursuit” within the meaning of Directive
3.2.  Respondent’s counsel relies on
Petitioner’s comment to his partner that “we’re going to be chasing this guy in
circles.”  (AR Oppo. 5:17-18; see AR 283
at 18:06:02.)  However, that statement
must be interpreted in the context of the video, which shows the officers
walking around the house to make contact with Santos and to persuade him to
submit to the psychiatric hold.  
 
            Nevertheless,
Petitioner and his expert witness, Sergeant Barbara Riggs, acknowledged that
certain concepts from Directive 3.2 were applicable to the tactics used by
Petitioner, including with respect to the “separation issue.”  (AR 43-45, 205-206.)[1]  Sergeant Rojas also agreed that certain
concepts from Directive 3.2 were relevant to the administrative disapproval.  (AR 123-139.) 
Given this testimony, the court assumes without deciding that concepts
from Directive 3.2 may be applied to Petitioner’s tactics during incident even though
he was not engaged in a foot pursuit of a fleeing suspect.  
            
            C.        There was no “separation” within the
meaning of the policy
 
            Directive
3.2 defines “separation (split up)” as follows: “Separation occurs whenever the
distance between the two officers is so great that one cannot render aid to the
other when confronted by the suspect or barriers exist that would unreasonably
delay the partner officer from being able to render aid.”  (AR 289.) 
Directive 3.2 also states that “[w]hile in containment mode, partner
officers may separate a reasonable distance for the limited purpose of setting
up a perimeter, as long as they have line of sight of each other.”  (AR 289-290.)
 
            Based
upon the court’s review of the record, including the body camera video, there
was no deviation from this policy, let alone a substantial deviation that would
support formal discipline.  The officers never
“split up” to the point that one could not render aid to the other.  Sergeant Rojas testified that when Officer Salsgiver
elected to leave Petitioner and went to the other side of the narrow walkway,
Salsgiver was still in a position to render aid to Petitioner if it became
necessary. (AR 120, 133.)  That is clear
from the court’s review of the body camera video.  When asked how he could do that, Rojas
responded, “By simply walking down that same corridor toward Officer Mancia and
the subject.” (AR 133.)  Sergeant Riggs
similarly testified that the officers could have rendered aid to one another if
necessary.  (AR 197.)  Prior to approaching Santos, Petitioner and
Officer Salsgiver were positioned approximately 50 feet part on either side of
the narrow walkway.  (See AR 27, 62,
84-85.)  Simply, the expert testimony,
photographs, and body camera video demonstrate that Officer Salsgiver never
strayed so far that he could not render aid to Officer Mancia.  In fact, they were within sight of each other
for the majority of the encounter, including when Santos used his pepper spray
on Petitioner.  Moreover, there were no
physical barriers that would unreasonably delay the officers from rendering aid
to each other. 
 
            Respondents
cite no evidence to the contrary.  Nor
does Respondent’s counsel address the policy’s permission to separate “for the
limited purpose of setting up a perimeter, as long as they have a line of sight
of each other.”  Respondents argue that “Officer
Salsgiver would have been late rendering aid and Officer Salsgiver actually
chose not to do so here because their positioning had created a cross-fire
danger.”  (Oppo. 9:18-21, citing AR 199.)  The limited distance between the two officers
does not support the conclusion that Officer Salsgiver would have been “late”
in rendering aid.  More important, the
cited testimony of Sergeant Riggs concerns crossfire potential, not whether a
separation occurred within the meaning of Directive 3.2.  (AR 199.) 
The court will address the crossfire issue separately.  Respondents’ argument that a separation
occurred within the meaning of Directive 3.2 is not supported by the weight of
the evidence.  
 
            D.        There was no “tactical decision” that
was a substantial deviation from policy 
 
            Although
there was no “separation” within the meaning of Directive 3.2, Petitioner received
an administrative disapproval because the officers “deployed on opposite sides
of the residence, causing a crossfire situation.”  (AR 304-305.) 
In fact, Officer Salsgiver created the crossfire potential by leaving
Petitioner’s side without telling him and moving behind Santos.  Nevertheless, the hearing officer sustained the
administrative disapproval on the grounds that “Officer Mancia had options” to
address the situation.  (Ibid.)  The hearing officer found that Petitioner
could have mitigated the crossfire situation by changing the “layout” and “by
adjusting his own position….”  (AR
404.)  
 
            The
weight of the evidence does not support the hearing officer’s conclusion that
the failure to change position constituted a substantial deviation of training
or policy.  In a discussion of “Perimeter
Concepts,” Directive 3.2 states that “it is important to ensure that no
crossfire situation exists.”  (AR 288.)  However, the mere existence of a crossfire
situation is not the issue.  According to
the LAPD’s own witness, Sergeant Rojas, the Department’s expectation in a
crossfire situation is that officers are aware of it, “evaluate what is
happening,” and “make adjustments if they feel is [sic] necessary.”  (AR 152-153, 157.)  Sergeant Rojas opined that, in this case, it
was appropriate for the officers to continue in their positions at opposite
ends of the walkway in order to contain Santos, i.e., there was no
substantial deviation from the training or policy.   (AR 142, 150-151.)  Sergeant Riggs concurred, testifying that
officers are “in crossfires all the time. . . . 
When we approach people on the street, we end up in crossfires.” (AR
199.)  She continued: 
 
So if something happens, it’s up to recognize [sic] I’m in a
bad spot. I need to change my position. So when Salsgiver saw the OC spray
being sprayed, he recognized that he might be in a bad position and redeployed
back because what started as, we’re going to go put hands on him and handcuff
him, now the subject pulled out pepper spray and my partner’s deploying OC and
a taser maybe I’m not in a great spot. Let me redeploy…. So if something
happens, it’s like, oh, I’m in a bad spot, I need to change my position which
Salsgiver ultimately did. 
 
(AR 199.)  Thus, the testimony of the LAPD and
Petitioner’s witnesses are consistent: Petitioner did not need to change
position to address Officer Salsgiver’s move. 
Indeed, the potential crossfire situation lasted for about 12 seconds,
per the body camera video, and both officers remained close enough to their
respective edges of the house, which allowed them to escape around the corners
(which they did when it became necessary). 

 
            Moreover,
the hearing officer did not consider potential justifications for the tactics,
which is required because an administrative disapproval requires a substantial
deviation without justification.  The
justification is an important component because the LAPD’s training and
policies acknowledge that deviations may be necessary to address the realities
of an evolving situation.  For example,
Directive 3.2—upon which the LAPD relied at the Board of Rights
hearing—states:  
 
Deviation from these basic concepts sometimes occurs due to
the fluid and rapidly evolving nature of law enforcement encounters and the
environment in which they occur. Deviations may range from minor, typically
procedural or technical, to substantial deviations from Department tactical
training. Any deviations are to be explained by the involved officer(s), and
justification for substantial deviation from Department tactical training shall
be articulated and must meet the objectively reasonable standard of the
Department’s Use of Force policy.
 
(AR 290.)  The hearing officer did not address Officer
Salsgiver’s necessity for changing position in the first place, which was “to
prevent Santos from escaping.”  (AR 303.)  More important, although the hearing officer
suggested that Petitioner should have taken cover behind the wall, the hearing
officer apparently did not consider the fact that Petitioner was attempting to
“build a rapport” with a delusional man who needed to be hospitalized.  In other words, there was no consideration of
whether Petitioner should have maintained his position, and Officer Salsgiver
should have moved (which he eventually did), because Petitioner had “taken the
lead” on attempting to achieve a peaceful resolution of the situation.  
 
            In
sum, the weight of the evidence does not support the finding that Petitioner’s
failure to change positions was a substantial deviation in the LAPD’s training
or policies without justification.  The
policy does not prohibit crossfires; the policy requires officers to be aware
of the potential and respond to it, which Officer Salsgiver eventually
did.  The crossfire situation lasted about
12 seconds; each officer had an “out” because they remained close enough to the
house’s corners to escape; and the hearing officer failed to consider the reasons
for any deviations from the policy, like the need to prevent Santos from
escaping and the fact that Petitioner—not Officer Salsgiver—was attempting to
persuade a delusional man to submit to a psychiatric hold.  Even if there was a deviation from the
policy, the record does not support the conclusion that there was a
“substantial deviation,” as required. 
Nor was there proper consideration of potential justifications in light
of “the fluid and rapidly evolving nature of law enforcement encounters and the
environment in which they occur.”
 
            E.         The failure to call for backup was not
a basis for the administrative disapproval
 
            The
hearing officer also found that Petitioner should have “called for backup so
that there would be sufficient personnel to safely contain the suspect and
render aid expeditiously should it be necessary.”  (AR 404.) 
The hearing officer explained: “It would have taken time, but the two
officers were at the scene 13 minutes after receiving the radio call, so it
probably would not be an excessive amount of time. The suspect was in a
reasonably contained space, and even if the worst had happened and he used a
weapon before the backup team arrived, it could have been useful to have more
officers present to assist.”  (Ibid.)  However, Petitioner received an
administrative disapproval because the officers “deployed on opposite sides of
the residence, causing a crossfire situation.” 
(AR 304-305.)  The command staff
did not cite the failure to call for backup as a basis for the administrative
disapproval.  
 
            The
weight of the evidence does not support the hearing officer’s (implicit)
finding that calling for backup would have resolved the crossfire situation,
which was the basis for the administrative disapproval.  The hearing officer seemingly relied on
testimony of Sergeant Rojas, who opined that once Santos began to evade the
officers, it would have been the “best case scenario to ask for
additional units to help contain [Santos].”  (AR 172 [bold italics added].)  As a preliminary matter, that the officers
may not have achieved the “best case scenario” does not mean that their actions
substantially deviated, without justification, from Department policy or
training.  Nor does this directly address
how it would have eliminated the crossfire potential.  Significantly, Sergeant Rojas did not opine
that it substantially deviated from any LAPD policy or training for Petitioner
to approach Santos, rather than call for backup, after Officer Salsgiver
separated and moved to the opposite side of the pathway.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition is granted.
 
            2.         The court shall issue a writ directing
Respondents to set aside the administrative decision and reconsider the case in
light of the court’s opinion and judgment, per Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5(f).
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall lodge a
proposed judgment and proposed writ as necessary.
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED 
 
 
Dated:  July 16, 2024                                                  ________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


