Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 23STCV18782
Plaintiff's Name: Curtis Randolph
Defendant's Name: Bank of America Home Loans, et al.
People-Names: Curtis Randolph
Company-Names: Bank of America, N.A., et al.
Places: Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles
Dates: August 8, 2023, December 4, 2023
Events: Demurrer to Complaint, Foreclosure of Plaintiff's home, Filing of lawsuit
Money: None
Intentions: To determine the legal sufficiency of the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff alleges the Note and/or Deed of Trust hid the "actual lender", loan was improperly assigned, and loan was improperly placed into a securitized trust pool
Disputes: Statute of limitations, Res judicata, Sufficiency of the complaint
Acts: Plaintiff filed lawsuit on August 8, 2023, more than four years after home was foreclosed and sold on March 28, 2019
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Business and Professions Code
Case Citations: Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist., Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City of San Francisco, Norgart v. Upjohn Co., Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Ass'n v. City of La Habra
Statutes: CCP § 430.50(a), CCP § 312, CCP § 338(c), CCP § 338(d), Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, Bus. & Prof. Code § 17208
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements: The complaint is barred by statute of limitations, the Court need not address the remaining arguments, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend
```

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has tentatively ruled in favor of the defendants, sustaining their demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend. The complaint is barred by the statute of limitations as it was filed more than four years after the plaintiff's home was foreclosed and sold in 2019. The judge has also granted the defendants' request for judicial notice. The plaintiff's allegations of fraud and improper assignments of the loan are not sufficient to state a cause of action and the complaint fails to meet the legal requirements. The judge has considered the moving papers and has not received any opposition from the plaintiff.