  Case Number:  22STCV00738    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Stephanie Marie Wickstrom, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV00738




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Southern California Edison Company, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 4, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to Amend
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Southern
California Edison Company 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Stephanie Marie Wickstrom,
et al.
 
T/R:      CROSS-COMPLAINANT'S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
The Court may allow, in furtherance of
justice, and “upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars….”  (CCP
§ 473(a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies (1)
the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Cross-Complainant moves for leave to add Diversified Utility Services, Inc. (DUSI) as a
cross-defendant. This action arises from decedent’s death while performing
electrical work. DUSI was decedent’s direct employer and Cross-Complainant's
subcontractor. Cross-Complainant seeks to enforce a contractual indemnity
agreement against DUSI arising from the claims in this action.
Cross-Complainant asserts it learned in recent mediation that DUSI has “no
intention of fulfilling their indemnification obligations.”
In
opposition, Plaintiffs assert Cross-Complainant has known of DUSI’s role in
this action since its inception. Plaintiffs argue that adding another party
this late in the action creates, among other possible issues, the potential for
another trial continuance. Plaintiffs also contend that the claims for
indemnity against DUSI are based on the contractual relationship between the
two and do not involve the facts and legal issues as Plaintiffs’ claims.
The
Court declines leave to amend. Trial in this action is fast approaching. Any
claims against DUSI for indemnity will not become ripe unless it is determined that
Cross-Complainant is liable to Plaintiffs for damages. The claims in the
proposed amended cross complaint involve different legal and factual questions.
Cross-Complainant's
motion is DENIED.


 