  Case Number:  21STCV45088    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA, ex rel., ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
  
         vs.
 
ADAM AVELARDO PEREZ, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV45088
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 13, 2024



 
Defendants
Healthcare Management Associates, Inc.’s and Mary Aviles’ demurrer to the third
amended complaint of Plaintiff Allstate Insurance Company is overruled as to
the 1st and 2nd causes of action.
 
Defendants Healthcare Management Associates (“HMA”) [Doe
3] and Mary Aviles (“Aviles”) [Doe 6] (collectively “Moving Defendants”)
demur to each cause of action in Plaintiff People of the State of California,
ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company’s (“Allstate”) (“Plaintiff”) third amended
complaint (“TAC”) alleged against it on the basis each cause of action fails to
state sufficient facts and is uncertain. 
(Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)  
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed its initial complaint as a qui tam relator on behalf of the People
of the State of California and on behalf of itself on December 10, 2021.  Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on October 21, 2022.  Plaintiff
filed its second amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 18, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative TAC against
Non-moving Defendants Alan Todd Turner, M.D. (“Turner”), George Mednik, M.D.
(“Mednik”), Adam Avelardo Perez (“Perez”), New Hope Imaging Services, LLC (“New
Hope”), Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC (“HFS”), R.O.A.R. Management
Company (“ROAR”), Ari Scott Resnik (“Resnik”), 11 Funding, LLC (“11 Funding”),
and Moving Defendants (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two causes of
action: (1) violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7; and (2) violation of
the Unfair Competition Law, Business & Professions Code §17200 et seq.
          Moving
Defendants filed the instant demurrer on June 26, 2024.  On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
opposition.  On August 8, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed their reply.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares he met and conferred
with Plaintiff’s counsel in writing, via email and telephonically.  (Decl. of Muller ¶5.)  Moving Defendants’ counsel declares the
parties were unable to resolve their dispute, necessitating this demurrer.  (See Decl. of Muller ¶5.)  Moving Defendants’ meet and confer
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Therefore, the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges Defendants carried out a scheme to defraud
insurance companies that cover claims for services related to Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (“MRI”).  (TAC ¶2, Exh. A.)
Plaintiff alleges because Defendants submitted (or caused
to be submitted) at least 398 fraudulent claims to Allstate, California law
imposes penalties of at least $1,990,000 and assessments of up to $4,200,000.  (TAC ¶¶6, 7, Exh. A.)
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the
1st and 2nd causes of action on the basis they do not state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action against them and are uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 3.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7 (1st COA)
Insurance Code §1871.7 provides, in part:
(a)  It is unlawful to knowingly employ
runners, cappers, steerers, or other persons to procure clients or patients to
perform or obtain services or benefits pursuant to Division 4 (commencing with
Section 3200) of the Labor Code or to procure clients or patients to perform or
obtain services or benefits under a contract of insurance or that will be the
basis for a claim against an insured individual or his or her insurer.
 
(b)  Every person who violates any provision of
this section or Section 549, 550, or 551 of the Penal Code shall be subject, in
addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil
penalty of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), plus an assessment of not more than three times the
amount of each claim for compensation, as defined in Section 3207 of the Labor
Code or pursuant to a contract of insurance. The court shall have the power to
grant other equitable relief, including temporary injunctive relief, as is
necessary to prevent the transfer, concealment, or dissipation of illegal
proceeds, or to protect the public. The penalty prescribed in this paragraph
shall be assessed for each fraudulent claim presented to an insurance company
by a defendant and not for each violation.
 
(Ins. Code §§1871.1(a)-(b).)
False claim actions are subject to “heightened fraud-like
pleading requirements.”  (State of
California ex rel. McCann v. Bank of America, N.A. (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
897, 906.)  “As in any action sounding in
fraud, the allegations of a [California False Claims Act] complaint must be
pleaded with particularity. The complaint must plead ‘the time, place, and
contents of the false representations, as well as the identity of the person
making the misrepresentation and what he obtained thereby.’”  (Id., internal citations
omitted.)  Specificity is necessary in
alleging claims under Insurance Code §1871.7(b), as it incorporates Penal Code
§550, which in turn requires a specific intent to defraud.  (People v. Blick (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
759, 772-775 [a violation of Penal Code §550 requires that the person charged
must “intend to commit a fraud”].)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that there was
a unity of interest between HFS on one hand and Aviles and Resnik on the other,
such that any individuality and separateness between them ceased.  (TAC ¶36.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Aviles and Resnik are, therefore,
the alter egos of HFS, which was and is a mere shell, instrumentality, and
conduit through which Aviles and Resnik carried on their business.  (TAC ¶37.) 

Plaintiff alleges adherence to the fiction of the separate
existence of HFS, as distinct from Aviles and Resnik would permit an abuse of
the corporate privilege and would promote injustice by protecting Perez from
liability for the wrongful acts committed by them. Any references or allegations
regarding or relating to HFS apply equally to Aviles and Resnik.  (TAC ¶38.) 

Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Aviles and
Resnik had common supervision, control, management, officers, and a unity of
interest in ownership of HFS, which is reflected in the commingling and pooling
of their earnings, expenses, and losses, such that for all intents and
purposes, they are one and the same and the alter ego of one another.  (TAC ¶39.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that there was
a unity of interest between HMA on one hand and Aviles on the other, such that
any individuality and separateness between them ceased.  (TAC ¶51.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Aviles is, therefore,
an alter ego of HMA, which was and is a mere shell, instrumentality, and
conduit through which Aviles carried on her business.  (TAC ¶52.) 
Plaintiff alleges adherence to the fiction of the separate existence of
HMA, as distinct from Aviles would permit an abuse of the corporate privilege
and would promote injustice by protecting Aviles from liability for the
wrongful acts committed by them.  (TAC
¶53.)   Plaintiff alleges any references or
allegations regarding or relating to HMA apply equally to Aviles.  (TAC ¶53.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Aviles had common
supervision, control, management, officers, and a unity of interest in
ownership of HMA, which is reflected in the commingling and pooling of their
earnings, expenses, and losses, such that for all intents and purposes, they
are one and the same and the alter ego of one another.
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action against Moving
Defendants under CIFPA with the requisite specificity by way of Plaintiff’s
alter ego allegations connecting HFS, Aviles, and HMA.  (TAC ¶¶3, 5, 76, 121-130, 163.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges with
specificity the violations of CIFPA alleged against HFA that are therefore
attributable to Moving Defendants.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st
cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) (2nd COA) 
The UCL prohibits “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent” business
acts or practices.  (Bus. & Prof.
Code §17200 et seq.)  By proscribing “any
unlawful” business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules set out in other
laws and makes violations of those rules independently actionable.  (Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57
Cal.4th 364, 370.)  A “violation of
another law is a predicate for stating a cause of action under the UCL’s
unlawful prong.”  (Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.)  Conversely, “[w]hen a statutory claim fails, a
derivative UCL claim also fails.”  (Aleksick
v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.)
Plaintiff sufficiently allege a UCL cause of action against
Moving Defendants on the basis it has sufficiently alleged a cause of action
for violation of CIFPA.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd
cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
1st and 2nd causes of action in its TAC is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  August ______, 2024                                





  