  Case Number:  21BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2025    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
DBIK
  CONSTRUCTION & DESIGN, INC., a California corporation,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FOUR JOY
  INVESTMENT, LLC,
  a California limited liability company; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21BBCV00674
 
  Hearing Date:  January 24, 2025
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to amend cross-complaint 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations of Complaint
Plaintiff DBIK
Construction & Design, Inc. (“DBIK”) alleges that it entered into a
construction agreement with Defendant Four Joy Investment LLC on April 30,
2019, in which DBIK agreed to provide certain improvements to real property
located at 1200 E Huntington Dr., Duarte, CA 91010 including the renovation of
the exterior and roof of a 67-unit hotel building, the exterior renovation of a
separate 8-unit commercial building, and landscaping of the entire
property.  In exchange, Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff a total of
$945,000.  In the next four months, structural safety concerns were
discovered with respect to the commercial building, which necessitated the
addition of a central column in the building and other design changes. 
During the construction, supervision costs escalated due to increased scope of
work, COVID-19 pandemic challenges, involvement of third-party contractors
hired by Four Joy Investment LLC, etc. DBIK alleges that for the provided additional
supervision, it is entitled to a project management fee of $828,823.31, or
approximately 20%.  DBIK alleges that the total change order between the
parties increased the contract amount by $3,899,454.44, resulting in an
adjusted contract amount of $4,844,454.44.  DBIK alleges it made a demand
for $4,844,454.44 and Defendants have failed to pay $1,776,084.08 of that
amount.    
The complaint,
filed July 30, 2021, alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Open Book Account; (3) Account Stated; (4) Reasonable Value of Labor and
Materials Furnished; and (5) Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien.  
On October 1,
2021, DBIK filed an amendment to complaint, naming Doe 1 as “Four Joy One LLC a
California limited liability company.”  On October 8, 2021, DBIK filed an amendment
to complaint, correcting the name of “Four Joy Investment LLC, a California
Corporation” to “Four Joy Investment LLC, a California Limited Liability
Company.”   
On October 24,
2023, DBIK dismissed without prejudice Four Joy One LLC as to the
complaint.  
B.    
Cross-complaint
On July 11, 2022, Cross-Complainants DBIK and
Cheng filed a cross-complaint against Angel Development Inc., N Pro Electric,
Inc., and Albert Harding Butcher, Jr. dba Harding Construction, and Moes 1
through 100. Their cross-complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Implied Indemnity; (2) Contribution and Indemnity; (3) Declaratory
Relief; and (4) Negligence. On August 22, 2024, Cross-Complainants named New
Sunrise Building, Inc. as Moe 1; R&S Rain Gutters Sheet Metal as Moe 2;
Iron Dragon Manufacturing, Inc. as Moe 3; Mage Group Inc. as Moe 4 (updated
from “Mage USA Group” on September 4, 2024); JFE HVAC Inc. as Moe 5; and
California Garvey Glass and Awnings, Inc. as Moe 6.  On September 4,
2024, DBIK filed an amendment to cross-complaint, correcting the name of “Mage
USA Group” to “Mage Group Inc.”   
On January 20,
2023, Cross-Complainant Four Joy Investment, LLC filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant Angel Development, Inc. for: (1) Intentional Misrepresentation
(Fraud/Deceit); (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (5) Negligence; and (6)
Recovery of Payments Made to Unlicensed Subcontractors Pursuant to Business &
Professions Code, § 7031(b). That same day, Four Joy Investment, LLC filed an amendment
to cross-complaint naming Roe 1 as DC International Design & Construction,
Inc.
On July 9, 2024,
Cross-Complainants Four Joy Entities filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“Four Joy SAXC”) against Cross-Defendants DBIK, “Danny” Hung Cheng, and DC
International Design & Construction, Inc. for: (1) Violation of Business
& Professions Code, §§ 7125.2 and 7031(b) (Disgorgement Action Against
Unlicensed Contractor); (2) Violation of Business & Professions Code, §
7160 (Statutory Fraud by Unlicensed Contractor); (3) (Deceit) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Deceit (Negligent Misrepresentation); (5) Negligence; and
(6) Violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.
On October 31,
2024, Cross-Complainants R & S Rain Gutters Sheet Metal (R & S) filed a
cross-complaint against Toes 1 through 20 for: (1) Implied and Equitable
Indemnity, (2) Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief. On December 3, 2024, R
& S filed an amendment to cross-complaint, naming Toe 1 as “DBIK
Construction & Design, Inc.” 
On January 13,
2025, all parties stipulated to State Farm General Insurance Company to filing
a Complaint in Intervention and intervening on behalf of Cross-Defendant
California Garvey Glass and Awning, Inc.
C.    
Relevant Background
On September 21, 2023, the default of N
Pro Electric, Inc. was entered upon the request of DBIK and Cheng.
On January 8, 2025, the default of Mage
Group Inc. was entered upon the request of DBIK.
D.   
Motion on Calendar 
On December 12,
2024, Cross-Complainant Four Joy Investment filed a motion for leave to file an
amended cross-complaint.
On January 10,
2025, Cross-Defendants Angel Development, Inc. and JFE HVAC (Cross-Defendants) filed
an opposition brief.
On January 16,
2025, Four Joy Investment filed a reply brief.
LEGAL STANDARD
The trial court has discretion to allow amendments to
pleadings in the furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).) Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the
furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment of any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) There is a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the
proceeding. (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) An
application to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound
discretion. (Ibid.) A judge may deny a motion for leave to amend where a
moving party has been dilatory in seeking leave to amend and such delay has
prejudiced the opposing party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) “It is difficult to understand how [a named defendant]
can be prejudiced by amendment to add an additional theory of liability against
it.” (Ibid.) If
a motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the
delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the Court has the discretion to deny
leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court, supra, 118
Cal.App.3d at p. 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation due to the reopening of discovery.  (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [“Where the
trial date is set, the jury is about to be impaneled, counsel, the parties, the
trial court, and the witnesses have blocked the time, and the only way to avoid
prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the trial date to allow further
discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an abuse of
discretion.”].) 
A motion for leave to amend must include a separate
declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) A motion for leave
to amend must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a)(1).) Moreover, a motion to amend must state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added,
if any, and must set forth the page, paragraph, and line number of such
allegations. (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).)  
DISCUSSION
A.   
Procedural Compliance 
Four Joy
Investment’s attorney, Roland Ho (Ho), provides a declaration in support of the
motion. The declaration satisfies the requirements under the California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324(b). Ho identifies the amendments, their effect, why
they are necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amendments
were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) 
Four Joy
Investment intends to include the following: “It is believed that Angel
Development was not properly licensed during the construction period in
question, including but not limited to failure to maintain worker’s
compensation insurance. That a proper licensure was required, including
maintaining worker’s compensation insurance; Cross-Defendant, Angel
Development, failed to retain and to use licensed contractors or subcontractors
and to maintain proper worker’s compensation insurance; and Four Joy paid Angel
Development about 1.4 million for services performed by unlicensed contractors
or subcontractors, including lack of proper worker’s compensation insurance
coverage.” The amendments’ effect is to “resolve all claims.” (Motion,
Ho Decl. ¶ 4.) 
Four Joy
Investment’s amendments are necessary and proper to “address the issues of
payment (the disgorgement claim) to unlicensed general contractor and
subcontractors.” (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 5.) 
On or around
November 26, 2024, Ho discovered Four Joy Investment did not plead clear or
specific factual claims alleging that Angel Development, Inc. was not properly
licensed and lacked worker’s compensation insurance during the time of
construction in question. (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 2.) Ho makes the amendment to
resolve this issue. (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 4.)
Four Joy Investment
did not request the amendments earlier, because Ho only discovered Angel
Development’s lack of worker’s compensation coverage after conducting discovery
and preparing for a deposition of PMK. (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 2.) In preparation
for the deposition, Ho reviewed the cross-complaint against Angel Development.
(Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 2.) This is when he noticed the missing allegations. (Motion,
Ho Decl. ¶ 2.) The same day, Ho reserved the motion date of January 17, 2025,
the soonest date available. (Motion, Ho Decl. ¶ 6.) 
Accordingly, the
Court finds that Four Joy Investment satisfies the procedural requirement under
the California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
However, Four Joy
Investment does not meet all the procedural requirements under the California
Rules of Court, rules 3.1324(a)(1)-(3). Four Joy Investment provides one copy
of the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint. Four Joy Investment also states
the language it wants to add. (Motion p. 6.) However, it is unclear how Four Joy
Investment wishes to amend the cross-complaint, because Four Joy Investment does not set forth the page or line
number of such allegations. Instead, Four Joy Investment states
the language it wants to add, and says, “See [Proposed] First Amended Cross-
Complaint,
¶¶ 10, 46, 47 & 48.” Four Joy Investment does not state whether all or part
of the proposed language will be included in those paragraphs. 
 In the end, Angel Development knows whether or
not it had workers’ compensation insurance, and so is already in possession of
the most important fact regarding this additional language. 
B.    
Prejudice
Cross-Defendants
contend that granting leave to amend the cross-complaint will prejudice their
rights. (Opp. ¶ 10.) Cross-Defendants allege Four Joy Investment is drastically
expanding the scope of litigation and altering the nature of the lawsuit by
adding Business and Professions Code 7031(b) five months before trial. (Opp. ¶¶
8, 13.) Cross-Defendants believe they have “no realistic opportunity to serve
discovery requests, take depositions, or file necessary motions on these new
claims” due to the new deadlines under Civil Code of Procedure section 437c. (Opp.
¶ 14.) This will likely cause the trial to be continued. (Opp. ¶ 15.) A delay
in trial is a reason sufficient to show prejudice. (Opp. ¶ 16.) Cross-Defendants
also believe Four Joy Investment is adding the code past the one-year statute
of limitations. (Opp. ¶¶ 13, 14.)
Allowing Four Joy
Investment to file an amended cross-complaint at this stage would not result in
undue prejudice to Cross-Defendants. Four Joy Investment is not adding Business
and Professions Code 7031(b) five months before trial. This cause of action was
in its original cross-complaint. (Reply, Ho Decl. ¶ 2 Exh. 1.) Rather, Four Joy
Investment is adding new factual allegations supporting its causes of action in
the cross-complaint. This will certainly, at least to some extent, expand the
scope of the litigation. 
Four Joy
Investment and Cross-Defendants may need to conduct depositions or propound
discovery as to the new factual allegations. Discovery does not cut off until
June as Cross-Defendants admit. Although Four Joy Investment does not satisfy
all the procedural requirements under the California Rules of Court, rules
3.1324(a)(1)-(3), the Court finds these procedural defects to be minor and so
grants Four Joy Investment’s Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint. 
There is time to
conduct discovery. Cross-Defendants also state they may file a demurrer or
motion to strike and must file it before March 17, 2025 to comply with Civil
Code of Procedure section 437c’s 81 day deadline. (Opp. ¶¶ 14, 16) However,
Civil Code of Procedure section 437c only applies to motion for summary
judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473c.) Cross-Defendants do not discuss filing a
motion for summary judgment. It is unlikely that trial will need to be
continued. 
Cross-Defendants
also claim that Four Joy Investment is adding a claim past the one-year statute
of limitations. As Business and Professions Code 7031(b) was included as part
of Four Joy Investment’s initial cross-complaint, this is not correct. 
Thus, granting
leave to amend the cross-complaint will not cause undue prejudice to
Cross-Defendants. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants Four Joy Investment’s Motion for Leave to Amended Cross-Complaint.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Four Joy
Investment’s Motion for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint is granted. 
Four Joy
Investment shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: January 24, 2025                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                                JOHN
J. KRALIK, Judge
                                                                                                Superior
Court of California
                                                                                                County
of Los Angeles. 