  Case Number:  23STCV07253    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  74 Takuma
Yamamoto v. Johnnie Kennedy Farms, Jr. 
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant’s
Answer
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
April 3, 2023, Plaintiff Takuma Yamamoto (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant Johnnie Kennedy Farms Jr. (Defendant). The complaint alleges one
cause of action for breach of contract.
            On
September 8, 2023, Defendant filed an answer but titled it “Response to
Summons.”
            On
October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed this demurrer to the answer.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “A party against whom an answer has
been filed may object, by demurrer […], to the answer upon any one or more of
the following grounds: (a) [t]he answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense, (b) [t]he answer is uncertain, (c) [w]here the answer
pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the
contract is written or oral.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.) 
DISCUSSION  
            In
support of his demurrer, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s “Response to Summons” is
uncertain because Defendant’s handwriting is illegible. The court disagrees but
urges Defendant to type his pleadings going forward. Plaintiff also contends
Defendant’s “Response to Summons” does not state sufficient facts to support
any defense to Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract. But
Defendant appears to assert Plaintiff also breached the parties’ contract.
(Answer, p. 1:4.) To prevail on a breach of contract claim, the plaintiff must
be free from substantial default. (See Pry Corp. of America v. Leach (1960)
177 Cal.App.2d 632, 639-640.) Thus, Defendant has raised Plaintiff’s failure to
perform under the contract as a defense. Last, Plaintiff claims Defendant’s
answer is uncertain because he labeled it as a “Response to Summons” rather
than a “Response to the Complaint.” But Defendant clarifies he is responding to
the complaint. (Answer, p. 1:2.) 
CONCLUSION 
The
court overrules Plaintiff’s demurrer to the answer.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.