 Case Number:  23TRCV01220    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
DAVID
  HAGOPIAN, and individual


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01220




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
CITY OF
  INGLEWOOD, a public entity; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a public entity; and DOES
  1 through 100, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             October 31, 2024        
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant City of Inglewood
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff David Hagopian
 
HEARING: MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO CONDUCT ADDITIONAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
Court grants the Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Physical Examination of
Plaintiff.
 
BACKGROUND
            On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff
David Hagopian filed the Complaint against Defendants City of Inglewood and
Country of Los Angeles, alleging a single cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property arising from a trip and fall incident allegedly
caused by an open manhole.
 
            Plaintiff and Defendant
allegedly agreed to two physical examinations to be performed on September 10,
2024, and September 17, 2024, regarding Plaintiff's injuries.
 
            On August 22, 2024,
Plaintiff was assigned new counsel who objected to both examinations.
 
            On September 25, 2024,
Plaintiff was examined by Dr. Kaloostian; however, Plaintiff’s hip was not
included in the scope of the examination.
 
            On October 3, 2024,
Defendant City of Inglewood filed the instant Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional
Physical Examination of Plaintiff. 
 
            On October 18, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
            On October 24, 2024,
Defendant filed the Reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or
procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  (2) The examination is
conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)  “If any party
desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described
in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination,
the party shall obtain leave of court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (a).)  “The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental
examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)  “If a defendant who has demanded a
physical examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff’s response
to that demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to
submit to the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for
an order compelling compliance with the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.250, subd. (a).)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendant
requests that the Court issue an order granting leave to conduct additional
physical examinations of Plaintiff’s right hip and an order directing Plaintiff
to appear for said examination, which has been reserved as follows:
 
Examining
Physician:
Alexandra Starvrakis, M.D.
Examinations:
Visual inspection
and palpation, range of motion tests, which include movement and positioning;
strength tests, which include resistance, etc.; gait; range of motion; lower
extremity neurovascular examination; motor examination, medical history
including pain history and other non-evasive tests regarding the right hip if applicable/indicated.
No X-rays or other radiological studies will be taken without the consent of Plaintiff.
Proposed
Date of Examination:
November 19, 2024, at 11:45 a.m.
Location
of Examination:
1225 15th Street 
         Suite 2100 
         Santa Monica, California 90404
 
Procedure
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
motion for a second physical examination should be denied due to a failure to
specify the particular tests and procedures to be conducted, as required by
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310. This statute mandates that
a motion for examination detail the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
specific diagnostic tests and procedures, which must be explicitly named in the
motion notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310 subd. (b).) A motion under Section
2032.310 may not be granted where the moving party fails to specifically
identify the particular diagnostic tests and procedures to be performed during
the examination. (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
249, 270.)  Defendant’s motion lacks
these specifics and instead only mentions general types of tests and body areas
in the memorandum, which does not meet the statutory requirements.
 
            In reply, Defendant argues that its
Motion is not procedurally defective, as the Notice of Examination complies
with Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.310(b) by detailing the examination’s
nature and scope. The Notice specifies that the exam will include visual inspection,
range of motion, strength, flexibility tests, and other non-invasive
procedures, all focused on Plaintiff’s hip. Defendant contends that this level
of detail is adequate and that Dr. Stavrakis’s qualifications as an orthopedic
surgeon specializing in hip surgery further establish good cause for the
examination.
 
            In Carpenter, the Court found
that tests described as “standardized written psychological tests to test
emotional and cognitive functioning” were not specific enough to satisfy Code
of Civil Procedure § 2032.310(b) because they did not list the specific test to
be administered. (Carpenter, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 269.) Here, the
test descriptions are much more specific as they state what is being measured
and how that attribute is being ascertained. For example, “strength tests,
which include resistance, etc.” (See, Id; Motion for leave p. 5-6.)
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant’s motion is not procedurally
defective.
            
            Good Cause
 
            Good cause generally requires a
showing of both (1) “Relevancy to the subject matter” and (2) specific facts
justifying discovery, i.e., allegations showing the need for the information
sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior
Court, (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)
 
            Defendant argues that good cause
exists for an additional physical examination because Plaintiff’s physical
condition, specifically the right hip injury, is central to the case.
Plaintiff's Complaint details multiple injuries, including severe pain in the
neck, back, and hip, stemming from a fall. (See Exhibit 2.) A prior examination
by Dr. Kaloostian was limited to the neck and back, with no evaluation of the
hip, as Dr. Kaloostian’s expertise is in neurosurgery. (See Exhibit 10, First Amended
Notice of Examination by Dr. Kaloostian.) Therefore, Defendant contends that a
separate exam by Dr. Stavrakis, a certified orthopedic surgeon specializing in
joint replacement, is warranted to properly assess the hip injury. Without this
examination, Defendant argues, they would be disadvantaged in adequately preparing
a defense regarding Plaintiff's full scope of injuries and claims for damages.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant is not entitled to a second physical examination under California
law, which limits defendants in personal injury cases to a single examination,
regardless of separate injuries. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant had the opportunity
to cover all claimed injuries, including orthopedic and neurological issues,
during the initial examination by Dr. Kaloostian. Despite this, Defendant now
seeks an additional examination by another specialist without demonstrating
good cause or showing why further information could not be obtained from Dr.
Kaloostian's examination or existing medical records. Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff’s original counsel never actually agreed to two exams. (Silva Decl.,
Decl. Exh. 5 at p. 2.) Furthermore, Plaintiff knew of Defendant’s objections to
the second examination a month before the examination with Dr. Kaloostian took
place. (Silva Decl., Decl. Exh. 7.) Thus, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
not shown good cause for a second examination.
 
            While a defendant is entitled to one
physical examination in a personal injury trial, additional examination may be
ordered by the Court for good cause. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320, subd. (a).) Good
cause generally requires a showing of both (1) “Relevancy to the subject
matter” and (2) specific facts justifying discovery, i.e., allegations showing
the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it
elsewhere. (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)
            
            The Court finds that Defendant has
shown good cause for an additional examination. Plaintiff has placed their
right hip in controversy as Plaintiff’s response to Defendant's discovery
states that he has suffered pain in his right hip, including severe right hip
pain after bending. (Motion for Leave Exhibit 2; Exhibit 8 p. 30:10-17)
Furthermore, Defendant will be prejudiced if it cannot examine Plaintiff’s hip
if the trial reaches the damages stage and Defendant lacks knowledge of Plaintiff’s
hip injury. While Plaintiff points out that it is good practice to examine
multiple injuries in one examination, Plaintiff does not show that Defendant
lacks good cause. 
 
Therefore,
the Court grants the Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Physical
Examination of Plaintiff.
 
            Conditions
 
            Plaintiff requests the Court put ten
conditions on the examination. 
 
            1: No later than fourteen
calendar days before the examination, Defendant shall provide to Plaintiff’s
counsel by electronic mail a complete list of specific tests and procedures to
be performed during the second examination.
 
            The Court denies this request as
Defendant has already given a list of examinations to be performed.
 
            2: The examiner shall perform no
other tests or procedures other than those specified in the communication set
forth in paragraph (a) above.
 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s request
as to the examinations listed in Defendant’s motion.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
subdivision (b) requires that a specific list of examinations be specified. It
makes little sense for the Court to allow the Defendant to perform examinations
not detailed in the instant motion.
 
            3: Should Plaintiff elect to
bring a motion for protective order or similar motion after receiving the list
of tests and procedures from Defendant, the examination shall be stayed until
resolution of any such motion
 
            The Court denies this request.
 
            4: The examination shall last no
longer than one hour (consistent with the demand served by Defendant)
 
            The Court denies this request.
 
            5: Plaintiff/Examinee shall be
entitled to have her attorney or a representative designated by her attorney
present for all aspects of the examination if Plaintiff should so elect (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.510)
 
            The Court grants this request as it
is required under Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.51.
 
            6: Plaintiff is entitled to
record all parts of the examination with audio technology and/or to have the
examination recorded stenographically, and, if Plaintiff so elects, a court
reporter shall be allowed to also attend the examination.
 
            The Court grants either the use of a
stenographer or audio recording.
 
            7: No X-rays or other
radiological tests shall be taken during the examination.
 
            See request No. 2.
 
            8: 
No blood shall be drawn and no procedure may be employed that will
break or puncture the Examinee’s skin or be likely to cause abrasion
 
            See request No. 2.
 
            9: 
After the examination, Defendant shall provide to Plaintiff’s counsel
a copy of a detailed written report setting out the history, examinations,
findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and
conclusions of the examiner, and a copy of reports of all earlier examinations
of the same condition of the examinee made by that or any other examiner, all
in accordance with Section 2032.610 of the Code of Civil Procedure 
 
            The Court requires that Defendant
provide all documents required under Section 2032.610 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. 
 
            10. 
At no point in any written examiner’s report shall the examiner refer
to the examination as independent, as an “independent medical examination,”
and/or as an “IME”
 
            The Court denies this request.
 
            Overall,
the Court grants requests 2, 5, and 6 and denies all others.