 Case Number:  24SMCV00837    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Shahnaz Asghar
Vahedi v. CVS Health, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00837
MOTION:                  Defendants
Mehrdad Pakdaman, M.D. and Beverly Hills Robertson Clinic’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint
HEARING DATE:    1/22/2025

 
Background
            
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff Shahnaz Asghar Vahedi
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
Defendants Garfield Beach CVS, LLC, Mehrad Pakdaman, M.D. (“Dr. Pakdaman”),
Beverly Hills Robertson Clinic (“Beverly Hills Clinic”), Judith Puyat and Does
2 through 100, inclusive, asserting the following causes of action:
 
1.     Medical Negligence; 
2.     Negligent Misrepresentation;
3.     Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and 
4.     Fraud. 
 
The SAC alleges the following. “Plaintiff had been
seeking treatment from Dr. Pakdaman for approximately five years, who was made
aware of Plaintiff’s severe allergy to sulfa on several occasions.”  (SAC ¶ 13.)  “On or about February 13, 2023, Plaintiff
sought medical treatment with Dr. Pakdaman. Dr. Pakdaman prescribed Plaintiff a
sulfonylurea drug class noted as glimepiride (hereinafter ‘Product’) to treat
her high blood sugar.”  (SAC ¶ 14.)  “Plaintiff was not made aware nor had reason
to believe that the Product contained sulfa ingredients to which she was
allergic to.”  (SAC ¶ 18.)  Plaintiff took the Product as directed.  (SAC ¶ 20.)  However, on or about February 20, 2023, she
began experiencing reoccurring fever, soreness, headaches, and skin rashes.  (SAC ¶ 21.)  On or about February 28, 2023, she sought
evaluation and treatment for her symptoms at Beverly Hills Clinic where Dr.
Pakdaman was working.  (SAC ¶ 22.)  “Dr. Pakdaman was recklessly dismissive of her
complaints and refused her proper medical examination and care in spite of her
deteriorating condition, including but not limited to: visible blisters, facial
discoloration, swelling of tongue, and deep distress.”  (SAC ¶ 22.)  “On or about February 28, 2023, Plaintiff
sought emergency care and treatment at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, located at
8700 Beverly Boulevard, West Hollywood, California, 90048, whereat she was
diagnosed with an allergic reaction to the Product and was told to immediately
discontinue use.”  (SAC ¶ 23.)
 
On July 24, 2024, Beverly Hills
Clinic and Dr. Pakdaman (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant
demurrer.  On January 7, 2025, Plaintiff
filed her opposition. On January 14, 2025, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading . . . for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41 [emphasis added].) 

 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint alleges facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10; Young v. Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209,
220.  The court
“may consider all material facts pleaded in the complaint and those arising by
reasonable implication therefrom; it may not consider contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.  (Young v. Gannon (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220 (citing Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638; Montclair Parkowners Assn. v. City of
Montclair (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
784, 790).) The court treats all facts alleged in the complaint to be
true.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) 
 
“A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
When considering demurrers, courts “are required to
construe the complaint liberally to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated, given the assumed truth of the facts pleaded.”  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733 (citing Rogoff v. Grabowski
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 624, 628.))  “The
burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate the manner in which the complaint can
be amended.” (Ross v. Creel Printing & Publishing Co. (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 736, 748.)
 
Analysis
Defendants
demur the SAC’s second cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, third
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED), and
fourth cause of action for fraud, arguing that they are uncertain and fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
Meet and Confer
 
The Court finds the Defendants
complied with the meet and confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41.  (Declaration of Stephen A. Diamond, ¶¶ 5-7.) 
 
COA 2: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s negligent misrepresentation claim is uncertain and fails
to state sufficient facts because she fails to plead with specificity (1) the
representations the Defendants made to her, (2) which statements were false,
and (3) that the Defendants knew or had reason to know that those statements
were false.  
 
“Negligent
misrepresentation requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and
the tortfeasor’s lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be
true.  It also requires the tortfeasor’s
intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by the person to whom the false
assertion of fact was made, and damages to that person.  [Citation.] 
An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has failed to plead any of those elements.  Plaintiff argues in her opposition that the
SAC alleges that the Defendants misrepresented the sulfa-containing Product as
a treatment for Plaintiff’s high blood sugar. 
However, the SAC does not make that allegation.  In addition, she neither argues nor alleges that
statement was false (i.e., the Product could not treat high blood sugar); she
only alleges that she was allergic to the medication.  Plaintiff also argues that the SAC alleges the
Defendants misrepresented her allergic reaction and her desperation for help as
“drug-seeking behavior.”  (SAC ¶ 41.)  However, Plaintiff fails to allege that the
Defendants made that statement with the intent to induce her reliance, and Plaintiff’s
justifiable reliance on that statement.  

 
For those
reasons, the demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation, with leave to amend.  
 
COA
3: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
Defendants argue that the NIED claim is uncertain and fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because the NIED claim is
essentially the same as the first cause of action for medical negligence.  They argue that the only difference is that
in the NIED claim, Plaintiff alleges (in the SAC Paragraph 41) that the
Defendants yelled at her and accused her of lying, causing her to “suffer[]
severe physical, mental and emotional distress,” while in the first cause of
action she alleges that Defendants’ negligence caused her “harm.”  (Demurrer, p. 8:19-27.)
“‘“[T]he negligent
causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of
negligence.  [Citation.]  The traditional elements of duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages apply.”’ 
[Citation.]”  (Arista v. County of Riverside (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1051, 1063.)  In “direct victim” cases such as this one, “the
plaintiff’s claim of emotional distress is not based upon witnessing an injury
to someone else, but rather is based upon the violation of a duty owed directly
to the plaintiff.”  (Ragland v. U.S.
Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 205; McMahon v. Craig
(2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502, 1509 [noting that the law in California imposes a
duty to avoid causing emotional distress in two general instances: direct
victim situations, and bystander situations, “ ‘in which a plaintiff seeks to
recover damages as a percipient witness to the injury of another.’  [Citation]”].)  In NIED cases, “serious mental distress may
be found where a reasonable man, normally constituted, would be unable to
adequately cope with the mental stress engendered by the circumstances of the
case.”  (Molien v. Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928 (“Molien”).)
Here, the Court
agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff’s NIED claim is uncertain and fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for NIED for the
following reasons.  First, it is unclear
which duty the NIED claim is based upon. 
The SAC alleges that “[b]ased on the special relationship between
Defendants and Plaintiff, as described [in preceding paragraphs], at the time
Plaintiff, visited the Defendants, and each of their agents and/or employees,
owed a duty of care to Plaintiff to refrain from causing her any emotional
injury in connection to the care and treatment of her.”  (SAC ¶ 40.)  However,
Plaintiff’s conclusory allegation that Defendants owed her duty of care to
refrain from causing her emotional injury is insufficient.  In California,
“unless the defendant has assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the emotional
condition of the plaintiff is an object, recovery is available only if the
emotional distress arises out of the defendant’s breach of some other legal
duty and the emotional distress is proximately caused by that breach of duty.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 985; see also Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop
Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1264 [“‘there
is no duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to another, and ...
damages for emotional distress are recoverable only if the defendant has
breached some other duty to the plaintiff.’ 
[Citation]”].)  Here, Plaintiff
has not alleged facts showing that Defendants assumed a duty in which
Plaintiff’s emotional condition was an object. 
Second, to the extent Plaintiff is alleging the Defendants breached
their duty to use prudence in their treatment of her, causing her to suffer emotional
harm, then (as Defendants argue) Plaintiff’s NIED claim is unnecessary because
it is the same as her first cause of action for medical negligence in which she
alleges their medical negligence caused her “harm.”  (SAC ¶¶ 28, 29, 31.)  
For those reasons, the demurrer is sustained as to the third cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, with leave to
amend.  
COA
4: Fraud  
 
            Defendants demur the fraud claim,
arguing that it is uncertain and insufficient because the SAC fails to plead that
claim with specificity (e.g., what the alleged misrepresentations were, and how,
when, and where those misrepresentations were made, or to the extent Plaintiff
is alleging Defendants concealed or suppressed material facts, which facts were
concealed or suppressed).  (Demurrer, p.
12:11-21.)  Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff’s allegation (in Paragraph 48) that Defendants knew or should have
known that she would sustain an injury as a result of consuming the Product,
states a claim for negligence, not fraud. 
(Demurrer, p. 12:19-23.) 
 
            The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) misrepresentation;
(2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (induce
reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) 
Plaintiffs are required to allege the
factual basis for each of the elements of a fraud claim with specificity
despite the general policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings on
demurrer.  (See Goldrich v.
Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782-783.)   Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with
general and conclusory allegations.  
 
The
specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the
case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
 
“Reliance
is ‘justifiable’ only when ‘circumstances were such to make it reasonable for
plaintiff to accept defendant's statements without an independent inquiry or
investigation.’  [Citation.]”  (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363.)
 
Here,
the Court agrees the fraud claim is uncertain. 
Plaintiff alleges that the Defendants breached their duty of care in
rendering medical services.  (SAC ¶ 46.) 
However, that allegation is relevant to her medical negligence claim not
fraud.  Plaintiff also alleges
that Defendants (1) breached their duty by failing to warn her of her known
allergies in prescribing the medication. 
(SAC ¶ 48.)  However, failure to warn sounds in negligence
or strict liability, not fraud.  (See
Carlin v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 1104, 1112
[“‘Negligence law in a failure-to-warn case requires a plaintiff to prove that
a manufacturer or distributor did not warn of a particular risk for reasons
which fell below the acceptable standard of care, i.e., what a reasonably
prudent manufacturer would have known and warned about.  Strict liability is not concerned with the
standard of due care or the reasonableness of a manufacturer’s conduct.  The rules of strict liability require a
plaintiff to prove only that the defendant did not adequately warn of a
particular risk that was known or knowable in light of the generally recognized
and prevailing best scientific and medical knowledge available at the time of
manufacture and distribution”].) 
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants deliberately concealed information by
refusing to record sulfa allergies on Plaintiff’s medical records.  (SAC ¶ 47.)  “‘The required elements
for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material
fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3)
the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.  [Citation.]’  [Citation.]” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
 
Here, Plaintiff fails to allege (a)
that the Defendants intended to defraud her by refusing to record that allergy,
(b) how she could have acted differently if she knew the Defendants concealed
their refusal to record her sulfa allergies, and (c) the damages she sustained
as a result of the Defendants concealment of their refusal to record her
allergies. Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
constituting fraudulent concealment.  
 
Finally,
the SAC alleges that “Defendants … knew … of the potential risks and
substantial danger of the sulfa ingredient contained in the Product which
caused grave harm, injury, and immense suffering to Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 33.)  “Defendants
misrepresented the Product, as being safe and to the benefit of treating the
Plaintiff’s medical condition when, in fact, the Product was known or should
have been known to cause Plaintiff grave harm in a direct relation to her
allergies to sulfa, an ingredient used in the manufacture of the Product.  In reliance of the fraudulent
misrepresentation, Plaintiff had [the] prescription filled, to the benefit of
Defendants, whilst to the detriment and harm of Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 48.)
 
However, Plaintiff fails to allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means Defendants told
her that the Product was safe and beneficial to her.  

For those reasons, the demurrer is
sustained as to the fourth cause of action for fraud, with leave to amend.  
            Defendants Mehrdad Pakdaman, M.D., and
Beverly Hills Robertson Clinic’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Shahnaz Asghar Vahedi’s
Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety, with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff is ordered to file and
serve her third amended complaint within 30 days of this ruling. 