  Case Number:  22SMCV00164    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Galleon
Technology, Inc. v. Electronics Design, LLC, Case No. 22SMCV00164
Hearing Date
September 27, 2023 
Plaintiff Galleon
Technology’s Motion for Protective Order/Appointment of Discovery Referee
 
Defendant
Electronics Design designated Arash Shamoeil, its sole member/manager, as its
person most qualified (PMQ). Shamoeil refused to answer relevant questions at
deposition on June 20 and “subjected [p]laintiff’s counsel to humiliation,
harassment, demeaning language, and unwanted vitriol.” On July 12, 2023, the
second session of Shamoeil’s deposition concluded after 15 minutes when Shamoeil
revealed prescription medication affected his memory and made him drowsy. On
July 17, 2023 Shamoeil again refused to answer questions, chastised the court
reporter and insulted plaintiff’s counsel with profanity. 
 
A discovery
referee will be appointed on a showing of “exceptional circumstances[.]” Taggares
v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 94, 105-106. These circumstances
include, but are not limited to, existence of multiple issues or multiple
motions, voluminous documents to be reviewed or antagonism between the parties
that might prolong the proceedings and frustrate discovery. Id. Under Cal. Code
of Civ. Proc. §2025.420, a court may issue a protective order after a
deposition to “protect any party, deponent, or other affected natural person or
organization . . to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwanted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” 
 
Galleon argues
Shamoiel’s conduct warrants appointment of a discovery referee to prevent
Shamoiel’s “harassment . . . condescension, swearing/cursing, and threats[,]”
and make him respond to relevant questions. Motion, p. 11.
 
The transcripts show
Shamoiel engaged in discovery abuse. He refused to answer questions regarding
E-Design’s discovery responses and the evidentiary basis of its own claims,
without an instruction from his own counsel. Plaintiff’s Exhibit F. These
questions fall within the scope of permissible discovery. Shamoeil told
plaintiff’s counsel “[y]ou’re not even a piece of shit to me” is a sanctionable
breach of decorum. Exhibit F at 287:5-288:10. 
 
The circumstances
justifying appointment of a discovery referee are not present. Shamoeil’s
conduct has been inappropriate, but he answered most questions appropriately. His
abusive behavior and evasiveness on some topics justifies a protective order
under §2025.420. The court will order Shamoeil to answer all questions unless
his attorney instructs otherwise. The court orders Shamoeil to refrain from
using profanities or making personal or professional attacks on counsel, the
court reporter, or any participant in the litigation. Failure to comply will
constitute contempt, resulting in sanctions. 
 
The court will
consider ordering further deposition to occur at the courthouse, so the parties
can seek judicial intervention if necessary. 