  Case Number:  23STCV25427    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  57  
Pending before the Court is the
motion of Defendant Jay G. Foonberg (“Foonberg”) for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff Maria Carson (“Carson”).  For the reasons set forth herein, the Court is
granting the motion. 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
This case began on October 18, 2023
when Carson sued Foonberg and the law firm Foonberg operates, Jay G. Foonberg
Legal Management Corporation (FLMC”) (erroneously sued as Law Office of Jay G.
Foonberg).  Carson’s complaint contains
two categories of causes of action. 
First, under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, Carson alleges gender-based
employment discrimination, sexual harassment in the workplace, retaliation for
complaining about the harassment, and wrongful termination.  Second, under various provisions in the
California Labor Code, Carson alleges that she was misclassified as independent
contractor instead of an employee and not paid all the wages that she was due.   
On November 17, 2023, Foonberg and
FLMC filed a timely answer to Carson’s complaint.  Less than a month later, on December 11,
2023, Foonberg and FLCM each filed a substitution of attorney, memorializing the
replacement of their former counsel with new counsel, Linda Guthmann Krieger (“Krieger).  On Foonberg’s behalf, Krieger contacted
counsel for Carson on December 26, 2023 seeking a stipulation that would allow
Foonberg to file a cross-complaint against Carson.   Carson’s counsel declined to stipulate to
the filing.  Shortly thereafter, on January
10, 2024, Foonberg moved for leave to file a cross-complaint against Carson.  Foonberg’s proposed cross-complaint was
attached to the motion.  It alleges
financial elder abuse and intentional infliction of emotional distress against
Carson.
GOVERNING LAW
The parties agree that the claims that Foonberg
seeks to bring against Carson are compulsory cross- claims, and that Foonberg’s
ability to file a cross-complaint asserting those claims after he already has
answered Carson’s complaint is governed by Code of Civil Procedure Section
426.50.   In full, Section 426.50 states as follows:
A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may
apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action.  The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action. 
(§
426.50.) 
The statutory directive that Section 426.50’s
authorization for a party who failed to assert compulsory cross-claims when
answering a pleading should be “liberally construed” embodies the principle
that “[i]t is preferable that the parties have their day in court.”  (Foot’s Transfer and Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 904.)  Section 426.50 also directs that leave to file
a cross-complaint containing compulsory cross-clams shall be granted as long as
the party seeking leave “acted in good faith.” 
This phrase  has been construed to
require there to be “substantial evidence” of bad faith by the moving party in
order for a court to deny leave to file compulsory cross-claims.  (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)   In
California law, “[t]he usual meaning of ‘substantial evidence’ is evidence that
is of ‘ponderable legal significance,’ ‘reasonable in nature,’ ‘credible,’ ‘and
of solid value,’ ‘and substantial proof of the essentials which the law
requires in a particular case.’” [Citation.] 
(California Renters Legal Advocacy & Education Fund v. City of
San Mateo (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 820, 852.) 
That is the meaning of “substantial evidence” for purposes of Section
426.50 as well.  (Silver, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at p. 99.)   “The term
“bad faith” means the “‘opposite of good faith, generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister
motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . . . the
conscious doing of a wrong because of a dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; .
.  it contemplates a state of mind
affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.’”  [Citation] 
(Id. at p. 100.)  Delay in
seeking leave to file a compulsory cross-claim may point to bad faith.  But in and of itself, delay is an inadequate
basis on which to deny leave to file a cross-complaint under Section
426.50.  (Id. at p. 101.)  Similarly, delay by the cross-complainant may
cause prejudice to the plaintiff, and prejudice may point to bad faith.  In and of itself, however, prejudice is not substantial
evidence of bad faith justifying denial of leave to amend.  (Ibid; see also Foot’s Transfer,
supra, 114 Cal.App.3d at pp. 903-904.)
ANALYSIS
The declaration that Kriger filed in
support of Foonberg’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Carson
states that Foonberg’s cross-claims were not pleaded earlier, at the time of
Foonberg’s answer to Carson’s complaint, because Foonberg’s former counsel failed
to recognize that Foonberg had claims of his own against Carson.  Kriger’s declaration further states that when
she substituted in the case as Foonberg’s counsel, reviewed the case file, and
interviewed Foonberg, she recognized that there was evidence on which Foonberg
could assert claims for elder abuse and intentional infliction of emotional distress
against Carson. 
Carson contends that Foonberg “acted
in bad faith by taking over a month to seek leave to file a Cross-Complaint when
he could have filed one at the time Defendants filed their Answer.”
(Opposition, 3.)  The Court disagrees with
that assessment.  The slight gap of just
shy of two months between the filing of Foonberg’s answer on November 17, 2023 and
the filing of Foonberg’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint on January 10,
2024 is insufficient evidence of bad faith on Foonberg’s part.  Kriger’s declaration credibly explains the
reason for the short delay: namely, that Foonberg’s prior counsel inadvertently
failed to recognize the basis of Foonberg’s cross-claims.  Krieger’s declaration also states that Kriger
reached out to Carson’s counsel within two weeks after Kriger substituted in as
counsel for Foonberg -- December 11, 2023 was the substitution date, and December
26, 2023 was the outreach date -- to inquire whether Carson would stipulate to
the filing of the cross-complaint.  Krieger’s
prompt action are not the stuff of bad faith.
Furthermore, as noted above, prejudice
arising from a delay in the filing of a cross-complaint may, along with other
factors, evince bad faith.  But here,
Carson has not made any showing at all of how she has been prejudiced by the minimal
delay in the filing of the proposed cross-complaint.  Carson filed her complaint just four months
ago.  If discovery has even commenced, it
necessarily is in its nascent stages. A case management conference has not yet
been held, and, correspondingly, the case has not yet been set for trial.
Nor was it bad faith for Foonberg’s
new counsel, Kriger, to have a different view of the evidence in the case, than
Foonberg’s prior counsel.  A new lawyer
may see things differently for a client than a previous lawyer.  Carson has failed to show the presence of bad
faith arising from the changed perspective that Krieger offered Foonberg when
she substituted in the case.
CONCLUSION
Foonberg’s motion for leave to file
a cross-complaint is granted.   Foonberg
is directed to file and serve by February 13, 2024 the proposed cross-complaint
that was attached to his motion. 