 Case Number:  24STCV02587    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  1 24STCV02587           4E
CAPITAL LP, et al v. PACIFIC CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS GROUP, et al
Defendant’s Unopposed Motion to Transfer And Consolidate
Actions
TENTATIVE RULING: Defendant Pacific Consolidated
Holdings Group’s Unopposed Motion to Transfer And Consolidate Actions is
GRANTED.  The Court orders Santa Barbara
Superior Court Case 24CV01682 Pacific Dutch Group v. OBM PDG transferred to
Department 56 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central District of the Los
Angeles Superior Court to be consolidated with 24STCV02587 for trial purposes.  Defendant Pacific Consolidated Holdings Group
is ordered to “promptly serve the order on all parties to each case and send it
to the Judicial Council and to the presiding judge of the court from which each
case is to be transferred,” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(e)), and “promptly take
all appropriate action necessary to assure that the transfer takes place and
that proceedings are initiated in the other court or courts to complete
consolidation with the case pending in that court.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(f).)
 Moving party to give notice.
Background 
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs 4E
Capital LP, Pharm Capital, LLC, and Alexey Mikhaylov sued Pacific Consolidated
Holdings Group, Inc., Meridian Via Real, LLC, Zevo Drive Holdings, LLC, Omar
Mangalji, Michael Steinberg, David Mehlman, OBM PDG, LLC, Via Real Group, LLC, OBM
Holdings, LLC, and The Inception Companies, LLC arising out of several loans
made to Pacific Consolidated Holdings Group. The First Amended Complaint,
(“FAC”), filed on June 26, 2024, asserts twenty-six causes of action, including
claims for breach of contract, fraudulent conveyances, larceny, breach of
fiduciary duty, fraud, accounting, and declaratory relief. The FAC alleges Plaintiffs
made $9.75 million in loans to Defendant Pacific Consolidated Holdings, a
cannabis company, and the loans are in default. The FAC also alleges, in
relevant part, that Pacific Consolidated Holdings agreed to assign promissory
notes due to OBM PDG from Rincon Point Farms, LLC, Carpinteria Peak Land, LLC
and Pacific Dutch Group, LLC to Plaintiffs.
 
On
March 22, 2024, Pacific Dutch Group, LLC, Carpinteria Peak Land LLC, and Rincon
Point Farms LLC, filed a complaint in interpleader in the Santa Barbara
Superior Court, case number 24CV01682, naming OBM PDG, LLC, Pacific
Consolidated Holdings Group, Inc., Meridian Via Real, LLC, Zevo Drive Holdings,
LLC, Omar Mangalji, Michael Steinberg, David Mehlman, 4E Capital LP, Pharm
Capital, LLC, and Alexey Mikaylov as Defendants. The complaint in interpleader
alleged Plaintiffs Pacific Dutch, Carpinteria Peak Land, and Rincon Point Farms
issued promissory notes to OBM PDG requiring Plaintiffs to pay monthly
installments. However, there is a disagreement regarding who now owns the notes
with 4E Capital, Pharm Capital, and Alexey Mikaylov claiming the notes were
assigned to them and Pacific Consolidated Holdings Group, Meridian Via Real,
Zevo Drive Holdings, Omar Mangalji, Michael Steinberg, and David Mehlman
disputing the assignment. 
 
 
Standard

 
Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule
3.3(h) provides: “[a] civil case which is not complex as defined by Standard
3.10 of the Standards of Judicial Administration may be transferred to the
court from a superior court in another county, if it involves a common question
of fact or law within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 403. The
coordination motion shall be made in compliance with the procedures established
by California Rules of Court, rule 3.500. Coordination motions seeking to
transfer a case or cases to the Central District shall be filed and heard in
Department 1. Coordination motions seeking to transfer a case or cases to a
district other than the Central District shall be heard by the Supervising
Judge in that district.” 
 
Coordination motions are governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 403, which states, in relevant part:
 
A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions from
another court to that judge's court for coordination with an action involving a
common question of fact or law within the meaning of Section 404. The motion
shall be supported by a declaration stating facts showing that the actions meet
the standards specified in Section 404.1, are not complex as defined by the
Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a good faith effort to
obtain agreement to the transfer from all parties to each action. Notice of the
motion shall be served on all parties to each action and on each court in which
an action is pending. Any party to that action may file papers opposing the
motion within the time permitted by rule of the Judicial Council. The court to
which a case is transferred may order the cases consolidated for trial pursuant
to Section 1048 without any further motion or hearing.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 403.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.500(c) requires that the motion “must be supported by a declaration stating
facts showing that:  (1) The actions are
not complex; (2) The moving party has made a good-faith
effort to obtain agreement to the transfer and consolidation from all parties
to the actions; and (3) The moving party has notified all parties of their
obligation to disclose to the court any information they may have concerning
any other motions requesting transfer of any case that would be affected by the
granting of the motion before the court.” 

 
To grant the motion, California Rules
of Court, rule 3.500(d) requires the Court to “specify the reasons supporting a
finding that the transfer will promote the ends of justice, with reference to
the following standards:
 
(1)
The actions are not complex;
(2) Whether the common question of fact or law is
predominating and significant to the litigation;
(3)
The convenience of the parties, witnesses, and counsel;
(4)
The relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel;
(5)
The efficient utilization of judicial facilities and staff resources;
(6)
The calendar of the courts;
(7) The disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent
rulings, orders, or judgments; and
(8) The likelihood of settlement of the actions without
further litigation should coordination be denied.”
 
(See also Code Civ. Proc. §
404.1.)  
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
The motion is supported by the declaration of Defendant’s
counsel, Berit Fitzsimmons, which states the cases are not complex,
(Fitzsimmons Decl. ¶¶ 7, 13), Defendant attempted to obtain an agreement for
the transfer, (Id. ¶ 3), and Defendant notified the parties of their obligation
to disclose information concerning any other motions to transfer that would be
affected by granting the instant motion. (Id. ¶ 4.) The declaration addresses
the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c). 
 
The Actions Are Not Complex
 
The Court finds the actions are not
complex within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.400, which the
parties do not contest. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(1); Mot. at 10:10-12:6.) The
cases are largely breach of contract cases related to the repayment of loans. The
two cases will not require “exceptional judicial management to avoid placing
unnecessary burdens on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case,
keep costs reasonable, and promote effective decision making by the court, the
parties, and counsel,” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.400(a)), as they are not likely to
require numerous pretrial motions raising difficult or novel legal issues, do
not involve a large number of witnesses, documentary evidence, or separately
represented parties, and are not likely to require substantial postjudgment
judicial supervision. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.400(b).) 
 
Predominating
and Significant Common Questions of Law and Fact
 
The two actions involve predominating
and significant common questions of law and fact. (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.500(d)(2).) The cases involve many of the same parties and the same
underlying facts. As noted by Defendant, both cases will require interpretation
and evaluation of the Letter of Intent, which will determine the dispute in the
interpleader action and is a significant agreement in 24STCV02587. The Court
finds the cases share common questions of fact or law that are predominating
and significant to the litigation, which weighs in favor of transfer and
consolidation. 
 
Convenience
of Parties, Witnesses, and Counsel
 
Counsel for the parties are located
closer to Los Angeles than Santa Barbara and multiple parties and witnesses to
both cases are located in Los Angeles. (Fitzsimmons Decl. ¶ 5; FAC ¶¶ 17, 20-23,
32; Fitzsimmons Decl. Ex. 2 ¶¶ 10, 12-15.) The FAC alleges Pacific Consolidated
Holdings Group operates in Los Angeles and executed loan agreements at issue in
Los Angeles. (FAC ¶¶ 5, 10, 26, 32.) Additionally, no party has opposed the
transfer. Based upon the pleadings and available evidence, the convenience of
the parties, witnesses, and counsel appears to weigh in favor of transfer and
consolidation. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(3).) 
 
Development
of Actions, Work Product, Use of Judicial Facilities and Staff Resources, and
Apparent Court Calendars
 
The two cases arise, in part, out of
the same loan agreements. Efficient utilization of judicial facilities and
staff resources is promoted by having both cases in a single superior court.
The two cases were filed two months apart and remain in the relatively early
stages of litigation with demurrers filed in both actions. (Fitzsimmons Decl.
¶¶ 7-16.) The relative development of the actions and the work product of
counsel, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(4)), the efficient utilization of judicial
facilities and staff resources, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(5)), and the
apparent court calendars, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(6)), weigh in favor of transfer
and consolidation. 
 
Inconsistent
and Duplicative Rulings 
 
The Court also considers “[t]he
disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments.”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(7).) Because both cases involve claims related to
the Letter of Intent, there will be an opportunity for inconsistent or
duplicative rulings if the two cases remain pending in separate superior courts.
Duplicate proceedings waste judicial resources and inconsistent rulings could
result in significant confusion and protracted motion practice. Moreover,
inconsistent rulings regarding the enforceability of the Letter of Intent
should be avoided. The Court finds the disadvantages of duplicative and
inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments by having the two cases proceed
separately weigh in favor of transfer and consolidation. 
 
Likelihood
of Settlement
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.500(d)(8) requires the Court to consider “[t]he likelihood of settlement of
the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.” Both
cases are in the early stages and it does not appear the transfer will impact
the likelihood of settlement. Granting the motion and having the cases proceed
before a single judicial officer reduces uncertainty and variation in the
litigation, which would tend to aid settlement discussions. The Court finds this
factor weighs in favor of transfer and consolidation as well. 
 
On balance, the Court finds the
relevant factors demonstrate the ends of justice will be promoted by transfer
and consolidation of the two actions in Los Angeles County. Accordingly, the
Court orders Santa Barbara Superior Court Case 24CV01682 Pacific Dutch Group
v. OBM PDG transferred to the Los
Angeles Superior Court for consolidation with 24STCV02587. 
 
The
Court Consolidates the Actions for Trial 
 
Defendant requests the Court
consolidate the actions for all purposes. (Mot. at 2:1-2.) However, as cited by
Defendant, Code of Civil Procedure section 403 permits “[t]he court to which a
case is transferred may order the cases consolidated for trial pursuant to
Section 1048 without any further motion or hearing.” Section 1048(a) provides
“[w]hen actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before
the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in
issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make
such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary
costs or delay.” The Court consolidates the actions for trial without prejudice
to the parties or assigned judicial officer determining that consolidation for
all purposes is preferable or, at a later stage in the litigation, that consolidation
for trial is no longer appropriate. 
 