  Case Number:  23STC19050    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  82 McKenna Capital,
LLC, et al. v. Eng Taing, et al.
Case No.
23STC19050
 
[Tentative] Order Granting
in Part and Denying in Part
 Defendants’ Motion to Modify Order Appointing
Receiver
 
            On
September 16, 2024, the court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for appointment of a
receiver.  The court granted a limited
purpose receiver to do the following: (1) Determine the status and create an
inventory of all bitcoin miners; (2) Locate and create an inventory of all
existing liquid assets; (3) Locate and create an inventory of all hard assets;
(4) To safeguard any assets which are in jeopardy of being lost (though the
receiver may not initiate litigation without approval of this court); (5) To
report the status of the assets/investments to the court and the parties; and
(6) To make any recommendations to the court concerning additional duties for
the receiver that would be necessary to protect assets and/or avoid waste,
fraud, or abuse (including recommendations of how to generate income with the
assets).  The court incorporates its
order of September 16, 2024, by reference. 

 
            Approximately
one month later, on October 18, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to modify the
order appointing the receiver.  This
motion was improperly noticed for hearing in Department 39, so the court
transferred the motion to Department 82. 
Now, the court denies the motion. 
As an initial matter, Defendants cite an unpublished case—Vail Lake
Rancho California v. Sundance International, Case No. E027601, 2002 WL 86888
(Cal. Ct. App. Jan. 23, 2023)—in violation of California Rules of Court, rule
8.1115.  That alone is a basis to deny
the motion.
 
            Reaching
the merits, however, Defendants do not articulate good cause.  It is true that parties—or receivers
themselves—may file motions to modify appointment orders based upon new facts
or circumstances.  In this case, however,
Defendants merely seek to re-litigate the prior motion, seeking to prevent the
receiver from determining whether Eng Taing and Touzi Capital LLC have any
assets at issue in this case.  As such,
it is an improper motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 and is denied on that basis. 
Regardless, the court finds good cause to include Eng Taing and Touzi
Capital LLC because they are defendants in this case and allegedly managed and
operated the funds.  
 
            Defendants
also identify alleged vagueness in the order, arguing that the definitions of
“liquid assets” and “hard assets” are unclear. 
Terms shall be afforded their ordinary meanings, and any ambiguity
should be resolved in the most inclusive and expansive manner.  Nevertheless, to address Defendants’
concerns, the court modifies Paragraph 2 and 3 as follows: “The receiver shall
locate and create an inventory of all assets—including but not limited to liquid
assets, hard assets, intangible assets—and anything else of value.”  The court also defines the terms “assets
which are in jeopardy of being lost” as assets that, in the opinion of the
receiver, may be transferred, concealed, or destroyed.  The Receiver may seek clarification of any
term if there is confusion in the context of a real—rather than a
hypothetical—situation.  
 
            Defendants’
counsel argues that Defendant Eng Taing cannot cooperate with the Receiver
without waiving his Fifth Amendment rights. 
The court’s order does not require Defendant Eng Taing waive his Fifth
Amendment rights.  To the contrary,
Defendant Eng Taing retains his Fifth Amendment rights provided that he clearly
and affirmatively exercises them.  To
that end, if he does not wish to communicate with the receiver, he may file a
declaration, signed under penalty of perjury and notarized, stating that he is
refusing to respond to specific inquiries (or all inquiries) from the receiver
in exercise of his rights under the Fifth Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution.  Similarly, if he does not
wish to produce any documents to the receiver, he may do the same thing, either
identifying the specific document requests to which he is not responding or
stating generally that he will not produce any documents.  If Defendant Eng Taing does so, there will be
no good cause for the receiver to file an ex parte application for an order to
show cause why Defendant Eng Taing shall not be held in contempt for failing to
cooperate with him. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.   
 