 Case Number:  23STCV09795    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
3, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  October 29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Pete Martinez v. Bhupendra Singh Virk, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV09795
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc. Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Pete
Martinez
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff, Pete Martinez, initiated this
action against Defendants, Bhupendra Singh Virk (“Virk”), Uber USA, LLC, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Rasier, Portier, LLC, Uber
Freight, LLC, and Uber, for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff alleges that, at the time of the
collision, Virk was driving for Uber when Virk made an unsafe left turn and
struck Plaintiff’s oncoming vehicle.  The
Complaint asserts causes of action for (1) Negligence-Motor Vehicle, (2)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, (3) Negligence, (4) Negligence Per
Se, (5) Strict Products Liability, and (6) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision.  The Fifth Cause of Action
is asserted against Uber Technologies, Inc. Rasier LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC (“Uber
Defendants”) only.  Plaintiff seeks
punitive damages.
 
            On August 11,
2023, the Uber Defendants filed this Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for
Strict Products Liability and Motion to Strike punitive damages from the Complaint.  Plaintiff opposes[1]
the demurrer and motion to strike.  Uber
Defendants reply.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   Judicial
Council forms are not immune to demurrer.  (People ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v.
Superior Court (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1486.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      JUDICIAL NOTICE
            
            Uber
Defendants request judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint and five trial
court orders sustaining Uber’s demurrers to strict products liability causes of
action.  (See Request for Judicial
Notice, Exs. A, B, C; Declaration of Kathryn A. Callaghan Decl., Exs. B, C, and
D.)  
 
            The
unopposed requests are GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d).)
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.¿ (Callaghan Decl., ¶¶ 3-9.)
 
B.  Allegations of
the Fifth Cause of Action
 
The 
Complaint alleges that Virk was logged onto to the Uber App at the time
of the collision and was appearing as an Uber driver available for providing
transportation services and/or food delivery services.  (Complaint, ¶ 39.)  Virk was viewing, monitoring, and/or
interacting with his wireless communications device/smarthpone/GPS at or near
the time of the collisions.  (Complaint, ¶
39.)  The Uber Defendants designed and/or
distributed the Uber App and/or GPS interface/system that Uber Drivers,
including Virk, were required to use and furthermore trained or failed to
adequately train them on how to use the app and interface.  (Complaint, 
¶ 193.)  In doing so, Uber
Defendants did place the App and GPS system into use and on the market.  (Complaint, ¶ 194.)  Uber Defendants had, or should have had,
knowledge that the App and/or GPS interface would be used without inspection
for defects and would be used in such a way as to violate one or more
provisions of the California Vehicle Code and/or create a significant risk of
the type of harm suffered by the Plaintiff in this action.  (Complaint, ¶ 195.)  Further, the App and/or GPS interface was
defective.  (Complaint, ¶ 197.) 
 
C. Demurrer
 
Uber Defendants argue
the Fifth Cause of Action for strict products liability fails as a matter of
law because Uber Defendants’ application (“Uber App”) is not a product.  Moreover, Uber Defendants are service
providers.  The Court agrees.
 
A defendant “may
be held strictly liable for its product if the plaintiff was injured while
using the product in a reasonably foreseeable way.  In order for there to be strict liability, the
product does not have to be unreasonably dangerous—just defective.  Products liability may be premised upon a
theory of design defect, manufacturing defect, or failure to warn.”  (Romine v. Johnson Controls, Inc.
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 990, 1000 [cleaned up].)  “Whether or not a product was defectively
designed or manufactured is a factual issue to be determined by the trier of
fact.  However, whether or not the
subject object or instrumentality is a ‘product’ is a question of law for the
trial court[.]”  (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1626.) 
 
As the Court of
Appeal has explained, “[t]he doctrine of strict liability in tort applies to
producing and marketing enterprises responsible for placing products in the
stream of commerce. Where purchase of a product is the primary objective or
essence of the transaction, strict liability applies even to those who are mere
conduits in distributing the product to the consumer.  Courts have not extended the doctrine of
strict liability to transactions whose primary objective is obtaining services.
 Courts have also declined to apply
strict liability where the transaction’s service aspect predominates and any
product sale is merely incidental to the provision of the service.”  (Pierson v. Sharp Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 340, 344, internal citations omitted.)
 
Here, the Complaint
consistently alleges that Uber Defendants are service providers engaged in the
business of transportation and food delivery services.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 8, 11, 37-40, 44-47.)
 The Uber App is the medium through which
an Uber user may access transportation or food delivery services.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 7.)  Further, Plaintiff alleges that, at the time
of the incident, Virk was operating her vehicle to pick up an Uber food order
for delivery.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 33-35, 39.)  With respect to the Uber App, Plaintiff
alleges, “use and/or monitoring of the APP and its interface, was a proximate
cause of this collision, including, but not limited to its causing Virk to be
distracted while driving.”  (Complaint, ¶
55.)
 
The foregoing
allegations make clear that Virk was using the Uber App to provide food
delivery services and further, that the Uber App is not a product but a way to
connect Uber drivers, like Virk, to Uber users seeking transportation or food
delivery services.  In other words, the
service aspect predominates.  Importantly,
the Complaint is also devoid of allegations showing that the Uber App is a
product.  For instance, there are no
allegations that the Uber App is a product available for purchase.  
 
 Plaintiff has filed an opposition which,
curiously, challenges Uber Defendants’ demurrer to the negligence cause of
action.  However, Uber Defendants demur
only to the strict products liability cause of action.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address any
of the arguments raised in the demurrer. 
In effect, Plaintiff concedes his strict products liability claim is
defective.   
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Further, as Plaintiff fails to provide any
explanation of how the complaint may be amended to properly state a claim for
strict products liability, the Court finds the Complaint is incapable of
amendment.  Therefore, leave to amend is
DENIED.
 
D.  Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) On a motion to strike,
the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) 
 
In ruling on a
motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code
section 3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 721.) Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).) Under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), “[a]n employer
shall not be eligible for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts
of an employee of the employer unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.” 
 
“[T]he imposition
of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not
imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp.
v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are
legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or
intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation
therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law
does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the
officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].) 
 
Further, a
plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice. To wit, there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (See Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) “When nondeliberate
injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful,
willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary
damages; such allegations do not charge malice. When a defendant must produce
evidence in defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he
receive adequate notice
of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co. v.
Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].) In Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the
plaintiffs’ assertions related to their claim for punitive damages were
“insufficient to meet the specific pleading requirement.” (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only
must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim”].) 
 
Here, Uber Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages because, Defendants
argue, the complaint fails to allege facts showing fraud, oppression, or malice
on the part of Defendants, and fails to allege facts demonstrating
authorization or ratification on the part of an officer, director or managing
agent of the Uber Defendants.
 
Plaintiff contends
punitive damages are appropriate where there are allegations of driving while
intoxicated.  Plaintiff further contends the
Complaint adequately pleads the requisite state of mind to impose punitive
damages against Uber Defendants.  These
contentions fail.  Although the Complaint
has alleged Virk was driving while under the influence of a substance,
(Complaint, ¶¶ 159-160), the allegations are conclusory and unsupported by
facts.  As to punitive damages against
Uber Defendants, Plaintiff references allegations that do not appear in the
Complaint.  (Opposition to Motion to
Strike, pp. 7:26-8:5.)  Nor does the
Complaint allege that an Uber officer director or managing agent authorized or
ratified the Virk’s driving while allegedly under the influence.  Moreover, in the absence of facts showing
Virk was driving under the influence at the time of the incident, this case
concerns a routine motor vehicle accident. 
“Ordinarily, routine negligent or even reckless disobedience of traffic
laws would not justify an award of punitive damages.”  (Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 899-900.)  Based on the allegations, this is not the
proper case for punitive damages.
 
 
In sum, the
Complaint is deficient.  As such, the
motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED. 
 Leave to amend is DENIED.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for Strict
Products Liability is sustained.  Leave
to amend is denied.
 
The motion to strike is granted.  Leave to amend is denied.  If Plaintiff later discovers facts supporting
punitive damages allegations, Plaintiff may seek leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file a First Amended Complaint
consistent with this order within 10 days of this order. 
 
Uber Defendants are ordered to serve and file its responsive
pleading within 30 days of service of the First Amended Complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   October 3, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


