 Case Number:  23STCV03843    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
                                                                                                                                   
HEARING DATE:      October 3, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE:  August
21, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company v. Edvin Francisco Hernandez Chivalan
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV03843
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 18, 2023, Petitioner, Allstate Northbrook Indemnity
Company, filed these motions to compel Respondent, Edvin
Francisco Hernandez Chivalan, to provide responses to Petitioner’s Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Identification and
Production of Documents.  Petitioner seeks
sanctions against Respondent.
 
            The motions
are unopposed. 
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR COMPELLING RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories and
inspection demands were directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order to compel responses without
objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b), 2031.300, subd. (b).)¿ Failure
to timely serve responses waives objections to the requests.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)
 
Monetary Sanctions
¿¿¿ 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  
 
III.        DISCUSSION
            Petitioner
served Respondent with the at-issue discovery requests on December 15, 2022.  Petitioner provided Respondent with two
extensions to provide extensions.  However,
to date, Respondent has not provided responses.¿ (See Martin Decls.)¿
Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and demand for production are
waived.¿¿ 
            As Petitioner
properly served the discovery requests and Respondent failed to serve
responses, the Court finds Petitioner is entitled to an order directing Respondent
to provide responses to Set One of Petitioner’s Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Demand for Identification and Production of Documents.¿ ¿Accordingly,
the motions are GRANTED.
            Monetary
Sanctions 
            Petitioner
requests sanctions against Respondent.  Given that the Court has granted
these motions, sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly, sanctions are
imposed against Respondent in the amount of $784.95, consisting of 4 hours at Petitioner’s
counsel’s hourly rate, and $184.95 in filing fees.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted. 
Respondent Edvin Francisco Hernandez Chivalan is ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Petitioner Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company’s Form
Interrogatories, Set one, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Identification
and Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of this order.
 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Respondent is ordered to pay sanctions in the
amount of $784.95 to Respondent, by and through their counsel, within 30 days
of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 3, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 