 Case Number:  22STCV13267    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
3, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  July 5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Erik
Denton, et al. v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV13267
 





















 
MOTION
FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS
 
MOTION
FOR 473(B) RELIEF



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Erik Denton
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On
April 21, 2022, Plaintiff, Erik Denton, individually, and as the
Successor-in-Interest to Joanna Denton Carrillo (“Joanna”), Terry Denton
Carrillo (“Terry”), and Sierra Denton Carrillo (“Sierra”), filed this wrongful
death and survivorship action against Defendants, City of Los Angeles (“City”)
and County of Los Angeles, arising from the death of Plaintiff’s three children,
Joanna, Terry, and Sierra, at the hands of their mother, Liliana Carrillo.  Criminal charges have been filed against Ms.
Carrillo.[1] 
 
Motion to Stay
 
On September 1, 2023, the City filed
this Motion for Stay of Proceedings pending resolution of People v. Liliana Carrillo,
BA494899.  Plaintiff opposes[2]
and the City replies. 
 
Motion for 473(b) Relief
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed
Motions to Compel City’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents and a Motion for
Discovery of Peace Officer Personnel Records (Pitchess Motion).  The City did not file oppositions.
 
On September 19, 2023, the City
filed an ex parte application to continue the hearing dates for Plaintiff’s
Discovery Motions.  As part of the
application, the City requested relief under Code of Civil Procedure, section
473(b) to file oppositions to Plaintiff’s discovery motions.  On September 20, 2023, the Court granted in
part City’s application and continued Plaintiff’s discovery motions to
September 29, 2023.  The Court indicated
that if the City’s motion to stay is denied, the Court would address the City’s
473(b) arguments.  
 
II.        MOTION TO STAY
 
A.    Legal Principles
 
            “The
Constitution does not ordinarily require a stay of civil proceedings pending
the outcome of criminal proceedings. [Citations.]  ‘In the absence of substantial prejudice to
the rights of the parties involved, [simultaneous] parallel [civil and
criminal] proceedings are unobjectionable under our jurisprudence.’ [Citation.]
‘Nevertheless, a court may decide in its discretion to stay civil proceedings
... “when the interests of justice seem [ ] to require such action.” ’ [Citations.]”
(Keating v. Office of Thrift
Supervision (9th
Cir.1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324.) 
 
            The
decision whether “to stay civil proceedings in the face of a parallel criminal
proceeding should be made ‘in light of the particular circumstances and
competing interests involved in the case.’ [Citation.] This means the
decisionmaker should consider ‘the extent to which the defendant's fifth
amendment rights are implicated.’ [Citation.] In addition, the decisionmaker
should generally consider the following factors: (1) the interest of the
plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular
aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the
burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants;
(3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the
efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties
to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending
civil and criminal litigation. [Citation.]”  (Id. at pp. 324-325.)  
 
            California courts have endorsed the Ninth Circuit’s approach.
 (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885 (Avant!); Alpha Media Resort
Investment Cases (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1131(Alpha Media)
[“Several California courts have acknowledged under similar circumstances the
wisdom of a Ninth Circuit case, Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision”].) 
 
B.     DISCUSSION
 
Given
the Court’s consideration of the Keating/Avant! factors as discussed below,
the City’s contentions do not prevail.  
 
 
 
 
 
Implication
of the Defendant’s Fifth Amendment Rights
 
The
City does not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination.  Nor can it. 
As a fundamental matter, the City does not have a Fifth Amendment privilege
against self-incrimination. (See Braswell v. United States (1988) 487
U.S. 99, 102 [the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination applies
to, and may be invoked by, natural persons, not corporations or other
organizations]; see also United States v. White (1944) 322 U.S. 694, 699
[“[s]ince the privilege against
self-incrimination is a purely personal one, it cannot be utilized by or on
behalf of any organization, such as a corporation”].)  And the City cannot assert Ms. Carrillo’s privilege
against self-incrimination on her behalf. 
(People v. Wisely (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 939, 944 [the “privilege
against self-incrimination is personal”]; People v. Douglas (1990) 50
Cal.3d 468, 501 [the privilege against self-incrimination “may not be vicariously
asserted by another”].)  Given these
fundamentals, the City’s reliance on Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686 (Pacers) is misplaced.  Pacers starts with the proposition
that “where… a defendant’s silence is constitutionally guaranteed,
the court should weigh the parties’ competing interests.”  (Pacers, 162 Cal.App.3d at p. 690 (emphasis
added.)  Because the City does not have a
Fifth Amendment privilege to assert and cannot assert one on behalf of Ms.
Carrillo, the parties do not have competing interests.  This preliminary factor
weighs heavily in Plaintiff’s favor.   
 
The Interest of the Plaintiff
in Proceeding Expeditiously and Potential Prejudice to Plaintiff of a Delay
 
            The
City characterizes Plaintiff’s interest as a financial one and argues that such
an interest is not weighty enough to preclude the issuance of a stay.  The City construes Plaintiff’s interest too
narrowly.  Plaintiff has a legitimate interest
in learning about the events leading up to the tragic loss of his children and in
prosecuting his claims expeditiously.  Plaintiff
seeks discovery regarding the implementation of the California Child Abuse and
Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA) and the role others played leading up to Ms.
Carrillo’s alleged murder of her children, including that of the Los Angeles
Police Department (LAPD) and the Los Angeles County Department of Child and Family
Services (DCFS).  A stay would prevent
Plaintiff’s expeditious discovery of information relevant to the prosecution of
his claims.  As the Fuller Court
stated, “Plaintiffs are entitled to an expeditious and fair resolution of their
civil claims without being subjected to unwarranted surprise.  Among the myriad purposes of the civil
discovery statutes is to safeguard against surprise and gamesmanship, and to
prevent delay.”  (Fuller, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th
at p. 306; see also, Alpha Media, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at p. 1132 [“[t]he
trial court’s concerns about delaying these proceedings for at least one more
year were well founded”]; Avant!, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at pp. 887 [“On the first additional factor, there
is hardly a question of the interest of Nequist in proceeding expeditiously
with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential
prejudice to Nequist of a delay. To require Nequist to wait for the result of
the related criminal action ‘would increase the danger of prejudice resulting
from the loss of evidence, including the inability of witnesses to recall
specific facts, or the possible death of a party.’” (Citation)].) 
 
                Given the current posture of the criminal case, the delay
here may be significant, most likely well over a year.  As best the Court can tell from the limited
information provided by the parties, Ms. Carrillo is facing three counts of
murder, various enhancements, and special circumstance allegations.  Although there is some reference to the
possibility of a disposition in the case because “the defendant is expected to
enter a plea of ‘not guilty by reason of insanity’” (Zygielbaum Decl., ¶ 6),
such a disposition is complicated and may entail a significant amount of time
to prepare and present the medical/psychological evidence and testimony.  It has already been over two years since the alleged
crime.  Further delays risk diminished
memory, loss of witnesses and records.  (Avant!,
supra, at p. 887.)
 
This
consideration weighs in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
The
Burden Which Any Particular Aspect of the Proceedings May Impose on Defendants
 
This
factor is where the City stakes it claim for a stay.  The City advances two primary arguments: (1) Ms.
Carrillo’s potential assertion of her Fifth Amendment rights prejudices the
City’s ability to prepare its case and (2) disclosure of information in
response to civil discovery may negatively impact the integrity of the criminal
case. 
  
            With
respect to the Coty’s first argument, Ms. Carrillo has not asserted her Fifth
Amendment rights in response to discovery demands in this case and, if and when
she does, the Court will address the issues at that time. To seek a stay now is
premature.  For example, in Fuller v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 303, the appellate court
affirmed the denial of a motion to stay discovery because the request was
premature.  In Fuller,
“African-American shoppers who claim they were beaten by security guards, sued
the individual guards, the guards’ employer IPC International Corporation
(IPC), and others, alleging various tort causes of action.  Petitioners noticed the depositions of the
individual guard defendants.  Fearing
criminal prosecution arising from the same incident, the security guards moved
the trial court for a protective order precluding the depositions, or staying
them until the criminal statute of limitations expires.”  (Id. at p. 302.)  The Fuller Court stated that “the
depositions should be allowed to proceed. The security guards can interpose
appropriate objections so that the trial court can then rule on the validity of
their invocation of the privilege with respect to specific questions.  If the security guards invoke their privilege,
the court will be able to fashion whatever protective order it deems reasonable
to balance the interests of the parties and the judicial system. Accordingly,
we deny the writ petition without prejudice.” (Ibid.)  
 
            Knowing this, the City argues
instead that because Ms. Carrillo may assert her Fifth Amendment rights
down the road at some unspecified time and in response to some unspecified
question, the City’s ability to prepare its case may be affected.  To state the City’s contention is to
recognize how vague it is.  Indeed, the City
fails to explain how the prospect of Ms. Carrillo’s invocation impairs its
present ability to respond to discovery or to prepare its defense.  In Avant!, the corporation argued that
a stay should be issued because its employees might assert their Fifth Amendment
rights. (Avant!, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at pp. 886–887.) 
The appellate court responded, “Avant’s claim that where the corporation’s
employees have Fifth Amendment interests, the implication of the right against
self-incrimination must be given serious consideration, while true, is not
overriding, particularly where, as here, the trial court had fashioned a remedy
to protect the employees’ Fifth Amendment rights by requiring Nequist to limit
the definition of “you” to Avant and for Avant to provide “non-privileged
information in the custody and control of its officers, employees and agents.”  (Ibid.) 
So too here.  The City can provide
non-privileged information unimpeded by Ms. Carrillo’s potential assertion of
her Fifth Amendment rights.  The City can
also prepare its case even if it must account for the prospect that Ms.
Carrillo may assert her Fifth Amendment rights.
 
Moreover,
the City fails to counter Plaintiff’s point that the focus of the civil case is
not on Ms. Carrillo, but rather, as the Plaintiff states, this case is about
“the accountability of LAPD officers in the months leading up to the killings.”
 (Plaintiff’s Opp., p. 10:15-17.)  The City fails to identify in any meaningful
way how Ms. Carrillo’s assertion of her Fifth Amendment rights impairs its ability
to prepare and defend its case, other than the obvious point that it may not be
able to elicit testimony from Ms. Carrillo should she invoke her Fifth
Amendment rights.  As Plaintiff contends,
there is a lot more to this case than Ms. Carrillo’s testimony.  The City’s first argument lacks traction. 
 
Moving
on, the City argues a stay is warranted because civil discovery may negatively impact
the integrity of the criminal case.  To
make its point, the City relies entirely upon the declaration of Deputy
District Attorney (DDA) Zygielbaum, the prosecutor assigned to Ms. Carrillo’s
case.  In his declaration, DDA Zygielbaum
states that “[d]isclosure of any part of the LAPD’s homicide investigation,
including photos, videos, witness statements, as well as investigative reports,
analysis and assessments, would significantly interfere with the ongoing
criminal prosecution of Ms. Carrillo.  In
cases like this, investigation continues during the pendency of the criminal
proceedings.  Disclosure of this and
related information to any non-party to the criminal prosecution would directly
compromise both the prosecution and the ongoing investigation.”  (Zygielbaum Decl., ¶ 7.)   But DDA Zygielbaum does not explain how disclosure would
compromise the criminal case.  His two-page
declaration is devoid of any analysis or factual explanation.  
 
There
are several significant problems with this conclusion.  The criminal case has been filed, and the
preliminary hearing has been completed or will be completed shortly.  That means discovery in the criminal case has
already been turned over to the defense. 
Presumably, the discovery produced in the criminal case is the same
discovery at issue here.  If the City seeks
to withhold anything else, the City has not identified it.  As far as the Court is aware, the criminal
discovery is not subject of a protective order.  The City is hard pressed to argue the
discovery that has already been produced and disclosed to the defense in the
criminal case will somehow prejudice the integrity of the criminal case if it
is disclosed again in the civil case.  Neither
the City nor DDA Zygielbaum explain how disclosure of materials, that have
already been disclosed in the criminal case, will negatively affect the
integrity of the criminal case.     
 
Nor
has the City asserted any privilege to prevent disclosure in the civil case.  While the City made a fleeting reference to
Evidence Code section 1040(b) in their moving papers, the City made no effort
to invoke the privilege.  DDA Zygielbaum
does not invoke the privilege on behalf of a public entity nor does any
authorized law enforcement officer.  In
fact, no one authorized “by the public entity” has claimed the privilege.  (See Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (b).)  Nor has the City attempted to follow the protocol
to invoke official information privilege.[3]  
 
Neither
the City nor DDA Zygielbaum identify any other subjects
or targets of the criminal investigation.  No charges are pending against anyone other
than Ms. Carrillo.  Over two years have passed
since the tragic events; more than enough time to develop information that
might lead to further criminal investigations. 
Without any charges pending against anyone other than Ms. Carrillo and
no apparent likelihood of further charges being brought (at least no such
information was presented to the Court), the City’s concern that others might
invoke the Fifth Amendment is far too speculative to warrant a stay. 
 
While
the Court appreciates DDA Zygielbaum’s desire and effort to maintain the
integrity of the criminal case and its importance, the showing made here,
however, fails to demonstrate how the civil discovery will negatively impact
the criminal case.    
 
The
Convenience of the Court in the Management of the Case
 
            “Clearly,
denial of the stay motion promotes the convenience of the court in the
management of its cases.” (Avant! Corp., supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at p.
888.) “[C]onvenience of the courts is best served when motions to stay
proceedings are discouraged.”  (Id.)  “Indeed, California courts are guided by the
strong principle that any elapsed time other than that reasonably required for
pleadings and discovery ‘is unacceptable and should be eliminated.’ (Cal. Stds.
Jud. Admin., § 2.) [To that end, c]ourts must control the pace of litigation,
reduce delay, and maintain a current docket so as to enable the just,
expeditious, and efficient resolution of cases.  (Gov. Code, § 68607; Cal. Stds. Jud. Admin., §
2.)” (Alpha Media, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at pp.
1132–1133 [cleaned up].)  Perhaps if
there were evidence that multiple people were subjects or targets and would
likely invoke their Fifth Amendment rights, the City’s argument about repetitive
motions to stay and disruptive litigation might carry more weight.  But absent such evidence, this factor weighs
in Plaintiff’s favor.  
 
Interests
of Persons Not Parties to the Civil Litigation
 
            The obvious
non-party who has a substantial interest in this matter is Ms. Carrillo.  No doubt, Ms. Carrillo’s Fifth Amendment
rights are of paramount concern.  And if
and when the time comes, the Court will address those concerns.  But as stated previously, the City cannot
invoke those rights on her behalf and, even “a party is not entitled to decide
for himself or herself whether the privilege against self-incrimination may be
invoked. Rather, this question is for the court to decide after conducting a particularized
inquiry, deciding, in connection with each specific area that the questioning
party seeks to explore, whether or not the privilege is well
founded.  This principle applies in both
civil and criminal proceedings, and under both
the federal and state Constitutions. 
Only after the party claiming the privilege objects with specificity to
the information sought can the court make a determination about whether the
privilege may be invoked.” (Fuller, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at p. 305 (emphasis in original)  [cleaned up].)[4]  “The trial court must be given the
opportunity to determine whether particular questions posed in the depositions
would elicit answers that support a conviction or that furnish a link in the
chain of evidence needed to prosecute the witness, and which may thus be
subject to constitutional protection.” (Id. at p. 308 [cleaned up].) 
 
The
only other interested person identified by the City or DDA Zygielbaum is Dr.
Teri Miller, Mr. Denton’s cousin. (Zygielbaum Decl., ¶ 9.)  There is no evidence Dr. Miller’s interests favor
a stay in this case. 
  
As
mentioned above, Plaintiff seeks information from the City that may involve several
other nonparties, including LAPD officers, DCFS personnel, lay witnesses, medical
personnel, and first responders.  The
City does not identify any basis to believe these individuals/entities have any
interest that would warrant a wholesale stay of these proceedings.  To the contrary, the expeditious proceeding may
well be in these persons’/entities’ interests. 
 
Interest
of the Public in the Pending Civil and Criminal Litigation
The City argues
the public has an interest in ensuring the criminal prosecution of Ms. Carrillo
is not subverted by these parallel civil proceedings.  To be sure, the public has a clear interest
in the integrity of every criminal prosecution. 
However, as previously discussed, the City fails to adequately demonstrate
how civil discovery here will negatively impact the proceedings in Ms.
Carrillo’s criminal case.[5]  At the same time, the public has an important
interest in issues related to the California Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting
Act and its implementation as well as in the proper and efficient resolution of
civil cases. 
In sum,
after considering the Keating/Avant! factors, the City’s motion for a
blanket stay of the case is DENIED.
III.      Motion
for 473b Relief
Having
denied the City’s motion to stay, the Court addresses the City’s motion for
473(b) relief. 
A.    Legal
Principles
            Under section 473, subdivision (b), “[t]he trial court
has discretion ... on a showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect’ to grant relief from a judgment, dismissal or other order
based on its evaluation of the nature of the mistake or error alleged and the
justification proffered for the conduct that occurred. ‘The general underlying
purpose of section 473(b) is to promote the determination of actions on their
merits.’ ” (Austin v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 928.)
Contrary to
Plaintiff’s assertion, “an attorney’s failure to meet a procedural deadline is
a proper subject of section 473 relief.” (Henderson v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229.)  Because a court can grant such relief does not
mean it should.  Courts must consider (1)
whether the moving party’s mistake is excusable, (2) whether the moving party
acted diligently, and (3) whether the opposing party will suffer any prejudice.
(Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258 (Zamora).)
“Where the mistake is excusable and the party seeking relief has been diligent,
courts have often granted relief pursuant to the discretionary relief provision
of section 473 if no prejudice to the opposing party will ensue.” (Ibid.)
“ ‘It is well settled that appellate courts have always been and are favorably
disposed toward such action upon the part of the trial courts as will permit,
rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal controversies upon their
merits.’ [Citation.] Thus, ‘the provisions of section 473 of the Code of Civil
Procedure are to be liberally construed and sound policy favors the
determination of actions on their merits.’ ” (Id. at pp. 255-256.)
B.      Discussion
            Here, the City seeks relief from failing to file oppositions
to Plaintiff’s discovery motions (filed on August 30, 2023).  The City argues the failure to file its
oppositions is attributable to excusable neglect.  Joshua A. Quinones, counsel for the City,
states in his declaration that Plaintiff’s discovery motions were purportedly “hand-delivered”
to him on August 29, 2023.  However, Mr.
Quinones was not in the office on that date and thus was not aware the motions
had been served.  Mr. Quinones further states
that when he learned the deadline to file oppositions to Plaintiff’s motions
had already passed, he emailed plaintiff’s counsel on September 12, 2023 about
an extension of the hearing dates on Plaintiff’s motions.  (9/19/23 Ex Parte Application, Quinones
Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Breanna Castaneda, legal
secretary in the General Litigation Unit at the Los Angeles City Attorney’s
Office, further declares that she failed to calendar oppositions to Plaintiff’s
motions under the mistaken belief that the Police Litigation Unit would do so
because the motions appeared to concern documents relating to the Los Angeles
Police Department.  (9/19/23 Ex Parte
Application, Castaneda Decl., ¶¶ 2, 11.) 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds the City’s neglect in filing the oppositions to
be excusable within the meaning of 473(b). 
Further, the City diligently sought to rectify the error by ex parte
application.  Plaintiff argues granting
the City 473(b) relief will further delay the discovery Plaintiff seeks and add
to the mounting prejudice.  However, Plaintiff’s
discovery motions were filed less than a month ago.  No determination has been made on the merits
of those motions.  Given the City
diligently sought relief and the policy favoring the determination of actions
on their merits, the motion for relief under section 473(b) is GRANTED.
IV.       CONCLUSION
            The Motion
for Stay of Proceedings is DENIED.  
 
            The Motion
for 473(b) Relief is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s
discovery motions are CONTINUED to November 7, 2023 at 1:30 p.m.  The City’s oppositions are due by October 18,
2023.  Plaintiff’s replies are due by November
1, 2023.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   October 3, 2023                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


