  Case Number:  22STCV39133    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ LL JOHN DOE MB, Plaintiff(s), vs. DEFENDANT DOE SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 22STCV39133 Hearing Date: September 4, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL  I.  BACKGROUND On December 16, 2022, plaintiff LL John Doe MB (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Doe School District (the “District”), Doe County, Doe Probation Department, Doe City, Doe Law Enforcement Agency, and Does 6 through 100 for allegations arising from childhood sexual abuse occurring in or around 1995-1996. The complaint sets forth seven causes of action for 1) Claim for Childhood Sexual Assault in Violation of Cal. Code of Civil Procedure 340.1; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligent Supervision/Failure to Warn; (4) Negligent Retention/Hiring; (5) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (7) Sexual Harassment.  On August 2, 2024, the District filed the instant motion to continue trial. On September 3, 2024, the Court granted Doe County and Doe Probation Department (collectively, “County Defendants”) motion for good faith settlement, and granted the County Defendants’ motion to strike the District’s cross-complaint. Both Plaintiff and the County Defendants oppose the motion to continue trial. As the County Defendants aver, its opposition is now moot considering its motion for good faith settlement has already been granted and the District’s cross complaint stricken. Therefore, the Court will only consider Plaintiff’s opposition as relevant. Any reply was due on or before August 28, 2024; none has been filed to date.  II.  LEGAL STANDARD Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.¿(CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿(See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III.  DISCUSSION The District argues a continuance is necessary because it recently substituted in new counsel on April 19, 2024, and that it will suffer great prejudice if it is forced to appear at trial without the defendants Doe County and Doe Probation Department (collectively, “County Defendants”) because the County’s board will not approve the settlement between the County Defendants and Plaintiffs until after the current trial date. The District further argues that it has yet to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records from out-of-state facilities, and that the District intends to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the current trial date for October 14, 2024 has been set since August 2, 2023, and that the District’s failure to prepare for trial is due to its own lack of diligence. Plaintiff contends the District has already participated in mediation, taken Plaintiff’s deposition, propounded and responded to discovery, produced multiple employees for depositions, scheduled Plaintiff’s medical examination, and filed numerous motions. Plaintiff argues there is no remaining discovery because Plaintiff provided medical records to the District on January 5, 2024 and May 23, 2024. Further, Plaintiff argues the names of all of his medical providers were given over a year ago on August 16, 2023, and that the District’s own failure to request its own copy of the medical records, that were already provided by Plaintiff, is not good cause to continue trial. Here, the Court will not consider the District’s speculative and conjectural arguments about the final approval process of the settlement between the County Defendants and Plaintiff. The matter of settlement is a foregone conclusion at this juncture, with this Court granting the County Defendant’s motion for good faith settlement on September 3, 2024. Further, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the District has failed to articulate what specific discovery is necessary, when Plaintiff has represented that the medical records sought have been provided to the District. Further, the District filed this motion just two months before the trial date, and there has been no showing of diligence or any other facts or circumstances to merit a trial continuance.  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the District’s motion to continue the trial date and all related dates is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: September 3, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 