  Case Number:  21SMCV00608    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion to Challenge Privilege Clawback Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.285 is GRANTED. The emails between Michael Hakim and attorney Benjamin Brin are hereby deemed not privileged.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 2031.285, subdivision (d)(1), provides that a party that has received electronically stored information in discovery that is later subject to a claim of privilege or of protection as attorney work product “may seek a determination of the claim from the court by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the claim and presenting the information to the court conditionally under seal.” Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim (“Said”) moves the Court for an order determining that a 2016 email exchange between Cross-Defendant Michael Hakim (“Michael”) and attorney Benjamin Brin, who is not counsel in this action, is not privileged or that privilege has been waived on the ground that Plaintiff Papillones, LLC (“Papillones”) waited to clawback the emails despite having notice of their production more than five months earlier.The basic procedural background is as follows: This action was filed on April 1, 2021. Said served Papillones with his Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and on February 11, 2022, Papillones responded to those requests. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 4.) In that production, Papillones produced the emails at issue here, identified by the parties as “the Brin emails.” (Opp’n, Michael Hakim Decl. ¶ 13.) On August 1, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Julia Hakim (“Julia”) and Said referred to the Brin emails in their responses to Papillones’ form interrogatories. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 2.) On January 5, 2024, Said filed his motion for summary judgment, and he included the Brin emails as an attachment to support his motion as evidence that the action should be dismissed on statute of limitations grounds. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 3.) On January 12, 2024, Papillones’ counsel sent a letter to Said’s counsel seeking to clawback the Brin emails on the ground they were privileged. (Korn Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) “The attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential communication between the attorney and the client.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) “The party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship. Once that party establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other reasons apply.” (Id. at p. 733, citations omitted.)In support of his opposition, Michael provides his declaration with statements that he consulted with attorney Benjamin Brin with regard to real property transactions, and he communicated with Brin with the understanding that the communications were privileged and would not be disclosed to anyone. (Opp’n, Michael Hakim Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) Notably, this does not establish that an attorney-client relationship existed between Michael and Benjamin Brin. Michael has the burden of showing that such a relationship existed, but he states only that he believed the communications were privileged, which does not establish that an attorney-client relationship existed, and he fails to provide the declaration of Benjamin Brin to support a finding that an attorney-client relationship existed. The declaration provided supports a conclusion only that Michael communicated with Benjamin Brin about real property transactions, and there is no evidence that Benjamin Brin was acting as Michael’s attorney. Further, Michael was questioned during his deposition about prior legal representation, and he did not mention Benjamin Brin. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. 5, at 164:13-25.)Even if an attorney-client relationship had been established here, the attorney-client privilege may be waived if the “holder of the privilege . . . has consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Evid. Code, § 912, subd. (a).) “Consent to disclosure is manifested by any statement or other conduct of the holder of the privilege indicating consent to the disclosure, including failure to claim the privilege in any proceeding in which the holder has legal standing and the opportunity to claim the privilege.” (Ibid.) “When determining whether an inadvertent disclosure waived the attorney-client privilege, a trial court must examine both the subjective intent of the privilege holder and any manifestation of the holder’s intent to disclose the information. Other relevant considerations include the precautions the holder took to maintain the privilege and the promptness with which the holder sought return of the inadvertently disclosed document.” (McDermott Will & Emery LLP v. Superior Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1083, 1101-1102, citations omitted.)Here, the Brin emails were produced in February 2022, and even if they were inadvertently produced, Michael did not seek to assert his privilege claim until almost two years later, despite the fact that Julia and Said cited the emails in their discovery responses. Michael contends that opposing counsel violated its ethical duties by referencing these emails, but the Court finds no basis for counsel to have assumed that the email was privileged, as there was no evidence before counsel that Brin was Michael’s attorney at any point. Michael also argues that he was not a party to the action when the discovery responses were served, but he was served with the complaint on September 20, 2022, and he fails to explain his delay in declining to assert a privilege claim until January 2024. Accordingly, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion to Challenge Privilege Clawback Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.285 is GRANTED. The emails between Michael Hakim and attorney Benjamin Brin are hereby deemed not privileged.