 Case Number:  23STCV27951    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                12/10/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:         23STCV27951 DAIMON
TERRELL CARTER vs ICO DEVELOPMENT GROUP LLC, et al.
Motion:                              MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff Daimon Terrell Carter’s Counsel 
Responding Party:      Unopposed
Notice:                                Insufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO BE RELIEVED IS DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Daimon Terrell Carter’s (Plaintiff) counsel of record, Jospeh
Nazarian/Joe Naz Accident Lawyers (Counsel), move to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary because there has been a
breakdown in the working relationship with the Plaintiff. No opposition has
been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)
 
A motion to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion),
MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)
 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
Counsel has
filed Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). Counsel seeks to be relieved as
counsel on the grounds that there has been a breakdown in the working
relationship with Plaintiff.
 
However, notice
of this motion is defective because Counsel has failed to write the correct
courthouse address, and did not provide notice by mail to Plaintiff. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d) [there must be proof of service of the moving papers on all
parties who have appeared, and Plaintiff].) Counsel must also include the
dates, times, locations, and subject matter of all future proceedings in this
case, and make sure the department number is correct. 
 
Thus, the
present motion is DENIED.
¿
¿¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.