 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 12/10/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV19129 ENEDINO
ESPINOZA vs TARGET CORPORATION, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Target
Corporation and Merelin Barrios
Responding Party: Plaintiff Enedino
Espinoza
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED. 
 
This action stems from a stabbing at a
Target store. The assailant was eventually shot and subdued by Plaintiff
Enedino Espinoza (“Plaintiff”), while Plaintiff was working as a Watermark
Security guard. On August 10, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the complaint against Defendants Target Corporation and Merelin
Barrios. Trial is set for February 6, 2025.
Defendants filed various responsive pleadings and motions to strike. The second
amended complaint was filed on February 22, 2024. The operative third
amended complaint was filed on June 17, 2024. There has been no prior
continuance in this case. Co-defendants BOP FigAt7th LLC and Universal Protection
Service, LP have filed notices of joinder to this motion.  
 
Defendants
seek a six-month continuance because they intend to file a motion for summary
judgment but have been unable to do so without first deposing Plaintiff. On
November 13, 2024, the Court denied Target’s motion to compel the deposition of
Plaintiff but only because Target did not show that the original deposition
notice was timely served. (Min. Order, 11/13/24.) The Court rejected
Plaintiff’s arguments that a second deposition was not warranted, and instead
ordered the parties to meet and confer to discuss the estimated time of a
second deposition and the general topics that remain. To the extent further
disputes remained, the parties were ordered to participate in an informal
discovery conference. (Ibid.) 
 
BOP FigAt7th LLC also argues in joinder that
Plaintiff has not cooperated with scheduling his mental examination and there
are still deficient discovery responses. The Court notes that BOP FigAt7th LLC
filed and served a motion for summary judgment on October 22, 2024, that is
currently set for hearing on February 20, 2025—after the current trial date. Universal Protection Service, LP also argues
that more time is needed to complete discovery. 
In opposition, Plaintiff relies on previous arguments regarding the second
deposition that were already addressed in the November 13, 2024, minute order.
Even though Plaintiff argues Defendants should have filed their motion for
summary judgment by the deadline, it is unclear how practical this would be
without the necessary discovery. 
Numerous courts of appeal have held
that a trial court cannot refuse to consider a motion for summary judgment that
is timely filed. "A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
filed within the time limits of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 437c.
[Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be applied so as to prevent the
filing and hearing of such a motion." (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529); accord First State Inc.
Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 324, 330 [invalidating case
management order to the extent it precluded filing motions pursuant to section
437c ]; Wells Fargo Bank v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918,
923 [local court rule that "require a party filing a complex summary
judgment motion to file the motion six months before the date set for trial is
void and unenforceable because it is inconsistent with section 437c"].) As
the Sentry court explained: "We are sympathetic to the problems the
trial courts experience in calendaring and hearing the many motions for summary
judgment. However, the solution to these problems cannot rest in a refusal to
hear timely motions." (Sentry, supra, at p. 530.)¿ 
 
On October 22, 2024, BOP FigAt7th LLC electronically served its motion for
summary judgment. The MSJ was served more than 105 days prior to the current
February 6 trial date and is therefore timely. 
 
Even though the remaining Defendants
have not filed their motions for summary judgment, based on the Court’s November
13, 2024, minute order, it appears they have been unable to complete the
necessary discovery. In light of the ruling ordering the parties to meet and
confer to complete the necessary deposition (and if necessary, to attend an
IDC), the Court finds good cause to continue trial to accommodate the remaining
discovery. The Court is also persuaded by the fact there have been no prior
continuances in this case, and that the operative pleading was not filed until June
17, 2024. 
 
Therefore,
the Court continues the Trial
to June 16, 2025, at  at 8:30 a.m, and the Final Status Conference
to June 2, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.  All case-related deadlines will follow the new
trial date.

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 