 Case Number:  23STCV18607    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 12/10/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV18607 ROBERTO FRAUSTO ACEVEDO, AN... vs LOS
ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
Responding Party: None
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS GRANTED
 
This case involves an auto negligence accident. Plaintiff Roberto
Frausto Acevedo (“Plaintiff”) alleges negligent operation of a Metro bus which
Plaintiff asserts hit him while he was riding his bicycle, causing him to
sustain bodily injuries and property damage. The complaint was filed on August
4, 2023, and Defendant filed its answer on September 11, 2023.
 
 On September 11, 2023,
Defendant Metro propounded upon Plaintiff Acevedo a set of Form Interrogatories
(Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), and Special
Interrogatories (Set One). (Pluma Decl., ¶ 3.) The responses were due on or
before October 16, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel requested an extension to December 11, 2023, which Defendant granted. (Id.)
However, on December 11, 2023, Plaintiff failed to provide responses. (Id.)
Thus, on May 14, 2024, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses
to Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and Form Interrogatories,
as well as a Motion to have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted. The
foregoing motions were all unopposed and then heard and granted on August 1,
2024. (Min. Order, 8/1/24.) Given that Defendant did not request monetary
sanctions, the Court declined to impose sanctions for the motions to compel. (Id.)
However, because sanctions are mandatory for motions to establish admissions,
the Court awarded $60 in sanctions against Plaintiff to represent the filing
cost for the motion. (Id.) Plaintiff was further ordered to provide
verified responses within ten (10) days and pay the $60 in monetary sanctions
to Defense counsel within thirty (30) days of said order`. Defendant Metro then
filed and served the Notice of ruling on Plaintiff on August 1, 2024. (Id.)
 
On March 27, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s (Albert
Abkarian) motion to be relieved effective upon filing proof of service of the
final order. (Min. Order, 3/27/24.) The order was signed on April 3, 2024. On
July 15, 2024, Defendant filed the proof of service of the Order, which was mailed
to Plaintiff on April 5, 2024. Plaintiff is currently self-represented. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the
discovery order and has not contacted Defendant’s counsel. 
 
The Civil Discovery Act provides for an
escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377,
390 [citation omitted].)
 
The Court finds that terminating sanctions are
appropriate here given the complete lack of engagement demonstrated by
Plaintiff, and the failure to abide by the Court’s August 1, 2024 order. The
Court previously denied Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions based on
Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff may be in a correctional facility.
Therefore, it was unclear if Plaintiff had actual notice of this motion. (See
Min. Order, 10/4/24.) However, the declaration in support of this motion states
that Defendant hired an investigator who concluded that Plaintiff was not in
federal or state prison, or in the County jail. (Pluma Decl. ¶ 8.) The
investigation revealed a possible alternative address for Plaintiff. Notice of
this motion has been mailed to that address, and the address on the Order
Relieving Counsel. Therefore, the Court concludes that notice is proper.
 
Accordingly, seeing no opposition, and finding
that Plaintiff’s conduct severely limits Defendant’s ability to defend this
case, and that less severe sanctions have not induced compliance, the motion
for terminating sanctions is granted. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.