 Case Number:  23STCV10200    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE 
Hearing Date: 12/10/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV10200 ELISA LOPEZ vs UBER
TECHNOLOGIES, INC, et al.
Moving Party: Non-Party Blue Hill Specialty
Insurance Company
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED. 
 
On May 8,
2023, Plaintiff Elisa Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc. and Justin Roger Ring for negligence based on a motor
vehicle accident. Plaintiff alleges Justin Roger Ring (“Ring”) was operating
the subject vehicle. Ring has not appeared in this action.
 
On October
22, 2024, Blue Hill
Specialty Insurance Company (“Blue Hill”) brought its motion to intervene in this action on
behalf of Ring, its insured. 
 
Legal Standard
Per CCP §387(a),
permissive intervention is proper if: the nonparty has a direct and immediate
interest in the litigation; the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the
case; and the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing
parties. 
A liability insurer
normally cannot intervene in a tort action against its insured. The judgment in
the tort action collaterally estops the insurer only on issues necessarily
adjudicated therein—i.e., the insured's liability and the amount of the
injured party's damages. It does not bind the insurer on coverage issues. (Western
Heritage Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Parks) (2011) 199 CA4th 1196, 1212.) 
However, because a
liability insurer agrees to pay any judgment obtained against its insured (see
Ins. Code §11580(b)(2)), it has the right to intervene (not merely permissive)
where an insured is barred from defending itself. In such cases, intervention
is necessary to protect the insurer's own interests because it may be obligated
to pay any judgment rendered against its insured. (Reliance Ins. Co. v.
Sup.Ct. (Wells) (2000) 84 CA4th 383, 386–387.)
Discussion
As stated above, Blue
Hill is Ring’s insurer, and provided him coverage at the time of the subject
accident. Blue Hill asserts that Ring cannot be contacted, and thus has failed
to defend this case. (Adablah Decl. ¶ 5.)
Blue Hill holds a
direct and immediate interest under “Section 11580,” which allows a judgment
creditor to proceed directly against a defendant’s liability insurance to
obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the policy limits. Therefore,
intervention by the insurer is justified if a judgment creditor has obtained or
will obtain a default judgment in a third-party action against the insured (Jade
K. v. Viguri (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1459, 1468).
The request for leave
to intervene is also timely. The case has only been pending since May 2023, and
Blue Hill demonstrates that Plaintiff has been unable to serve Ring personally
or by substitute service. Blue Hill’s efforts to locate Ring have also been
unsuccessful. No opposition to this motion has been filed, and no prejudice to
other parties has been alleged.
Thus, the court grants
the present motion to intervene. Blue Hill shall file and serve its proposed
answer-in-intervention within 10 days.[1]
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 


