 Case Number:  22STCV06897    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 12/10/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV06897 JESUS ROMERO vs
INTEX REALTY CORP
Moving Party: Defendant Intex Corp
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: DENIED
 
Background
This case involves a
trip-and-fall incident that occurred in the parking lot at 13060 Temple Avenue,
City of Industry, CA 91746. Plaintiff alleges that he stepped on hollow
asphalt, which caused his foot to get stuck in a wide ditch. At the time of the
incident, the subject property was owned by Defendant Intex Realty Corp. and
leased to California Cartage Company, LLC. Defendant now moves the Court for
summary judgment on the basis that California Cartage exclusively controlled
and maintained the subject parking lot and, therefore, Defendant is not liable
as it owed no duty of care to Plaintiff regarding the alleged dangerous
condition.
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry
its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court
decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
Undisputed Facts
·       
Intex Realty Corporation is the owner of
the property located at 13060 Temple Ave., City of Industry in California. 
·       
On August 1, 2012 owner and lessor Intex
Realty Corporation entered into an agreement with lessee California Cartage
Company, LLC, to lease the premises located at 13060 Temple Ave., City of
Industry in California.
·       
The commercial lease agreement between
Intex and Cal Cartage was subsequently amended to extend the term of the
agreement to August 31, 2021.
·       
On February 25, 2020, while working in
the scope of his employment for Cal Cartage, plaintiff Jesus Romero was walking
in a parking lot on the premises of Intex Realty Corp. located at 13060 Temple
Ave., City of Industry in California when he tripped and fell on hollow asphalt,
sustaining injuries.
Discussion
The parties do not
dispute that the fall occurred on property owned by Intex, the location of the
fall, or that at the time of the incident, Intex leased the property to
California Cartage. Defendant's sole argument is that California Cartage, and
not Defendant Intex, was responsible for the control and maintenance of the
parking lot where Plaintiff fell.
In support of this
position, Defendant cites the terms of the lease agreement (Exhibit 7), a declaration
by Martin Verma, General Manager of California Cartage, and a declaration by
Jeffrey Pierson, Defendant’s contracted property manager for the subject
property, for the contention that California Cartage exclusively maintained and
controlled the parking area of the subject premises where Plaintiff fell.
Pertinent parts of the
subject lease state:
Maintenance; Repairs,
Utility Installations: Trade Fixtures and Alterations
7.1 Lessee's Obligations.
(a) In General.
Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 2.2 (Condition), 2.3 (Compliance), 6.3
(Lessee's Compliance with Applicable Requirements), 7.2 (Lessor's Obligations),
9 (Damage or Destruction), and 14 (Condemnation), Lessee shall, at Lessee's
sole expense, keep the Premises, Utility Installations (intended for Lessee's
exclusive use, no matter where located), and Alterations in good order,
condition, and repair. This obligation applies regardless of whether the
portion of the Premises requiring repair, or the means of repair, is reasonably
or readily accessible to Lessee, and whether the need for such repairs arises
from Lessee's use, prior use, the elements, or the age of the portion of the
Premises. This includes, but is not limited to, all equipment or facilities
such as plumbing, HVAC equipment, electrical systems, lighting facilities,
boilers, pressure vessels, fixtures, interior walls, interior surfaces of
exterior walls, ceilings, floors, windows, doors, plate glass, and skylights,
except for items that are Lessor’s responsibility under Paragraph 7.2. Lessee
shall exercise and perform good maintenance practices to keep the Premises in
good order, condition, and repair, including procuring and maintaining the
service contracts required by Paragraph 7.1(b) below. Lessee’s obligations
include restorations, replacements, or renewals necessary to maintain the
Premises and all improvements thereon in good condition and state of repair.
(b) Service
Contracts. Lessee shall, at Lessee's sole expense, procure and maintain
contracts, with copies provided to Lessor, in customary form and substance,
with contractors specializing in and experienced with maintaining the following
equipment and improvements, if and when installed on the Premises: (i) HVAC
equipment, (ii) boilers and pressure vessels, and (iii) clarifiers. However,
Lessor reserves the right, upon notice to Lessee, to procure and maintain any
or all of such service contracts. In such cases, Lessee shall reimburse Lessor
for the cost upon demand.
(c) Failure to
Perform. If Lessee fails to perform Lessee's obligations under this
Paragraph 7.1, Lessor may, after 10 days' prior written notice to Lessee
(except in the case of an emergency, in which no notice is required), enter the
Premises, perform such obligations on Lessee's behalf, and restore the Premises
to good order, condition, and repair. Lessee shall promptly reimburse Lessor
for the cost of such work, plus an additional sum equal to 15% of the cost.
(d) Replacement.
Subject to Lessee's indemnification of Lessor as set forth in Paragraph 8.7,
and without relieving Lessee of liability for failing to exercise and perform
good maintenance practices, if an item described in Paragraph 7.1(b) cannot be
repaired at a cost less than 50% of its replacement cost, such item shall be
replaced by Lessor. The cost of replacement shall be prorated between the
Parties, and Lessee shall pay an amount equal to 1/144th of the cost each month
during the remainder of the lease term, on the date Base Rent is due. Lessee
shall pay interest on the unamortized balance but may prepay its obligation at
any time.
7.2 Lessor's
Obligations.
Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 2.2 (Condition), 2.3 (Compliance), 4.2
(Common Area Operating Expenses), 6 (Use), 7.1 (Lessee's Obligations), 9
(Damage or Destruction), and 14 (Condemnation), Lessor, subject to
reimbursement pursuant to Paragraph 4.2, shall keep in good order, condition,
and repair the foundations, exterior walls, structural condition of interior
bearing walls, exterior roof, fire sprinkler system, Common Area fire alarm
and/or smoke detection systems, fire hydrants, parking lots, walkways,
parkways, driveways, landscaping, fences, signs, and utility systems serving
the Common Areas and all parts thereof. Lessor is also responsible for
providing the services for which there is a Common Area Operating Expense
pursuant to Paragraph 4.2.
Lessor shall not be
obligated to paint the exterior or interior surfaces of exterior walls nor to
maintain, repair, or replace windows, doors, or plate glass of the Premises.
Lessee expressly waives the benefit of any statute now or hereafter in effect to
the extent it is inconsistent with the terms of this Lease.
This includes, but is
not limited to, all equipment or facilities such as plumbing, HVAC equipment,
electrical systems, lighting facilities, boilers, pressure vessels, fixtures,
interior walls, interior surfaces of exterior walls, ceilings, floors, windows,
doors, plate glass, and skylights, except for items that are Lessor’s
responsibility under Paragraph 7.2. Lessee                                                
        Section 7.1 of the lease states that "Lessee
shall, at Lessee's sole expense, keep the Premises, Utility Installations
(intended for Lessee's exclusive use, no matter where located), and Alterations
in good order, condition, and repair ... but excluding any items which are the
responsibility of Lessor pursuant to Paragraph 7.2." This provision
explicitly limits Lessee’s responsibilities by excluding areas that are
Lessor’s responsibility under Paragraph 7.2. 
Section
7.2 of the lease states  "Lessor,
subject to reimbursement pursuant to Paragraph 4.2, shall keep in good order,
condition, and repair the foundations, exterior walls, structural condition of
interior bearing walls, exterior roof, fire sprinkler system, Common Area fire
alarm and/or smoke detection systems, fire hydrants, parking lots, walkways,
parkways, driveways, landscaping, fences, signs, and utility systems serving
the Common Areas and all parts thereof." This provision assigns the
responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the parking lots to the
Lessor (Intex). The inclusion of "parking lots" within the list
of areas for which Lessor has a duty to maintain demonstrates that this
responsibility lies solely with Intex. Accordingly, Defendant failed to meet
its initial burden.
Defendant, in its
reply, does not dispute that, under Paragraph 7.2 of the lease agreement, the
responsibility to maintain the parking lot belongs to Defendant. However,
Defendant argues that the intent of the parties, as evidenced by extrinsic
evidence and performance under the contract, demonstrates otherwise.
California Civil Code
§§ 1638 and 1639 collectively establish that the interpretation of a written
contract begins and ends with the language of the agreement when it is clear,
explicit, and complete. Civil Code § 1638 provides: "The language of a contract
is to govern its interpretation, if the language is clear and explicit, and
does not involve an absurdity." Civil Code § 1639 reinforces this
principle by stating: "When a contract is reduced to writing, the
intention of the parties is to be ascertained from the writing alone, if
possible." Together, these statutes underscore that the plain and
unambiguous language of the contract governs interpretation without recourse to
extrinsic evidence unless ambiguity exists.
In this case, the lease
explicitly addresses the allocation of maintenance responsibilities in
Paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2:

Paragraph
     7.1 defines Lessee’s obligations, which include
     maintaining and repairing specific items but explicitly excludes
     "items which are the responsibility of Lessor pursuant to Paragraph
     7.2."
Paragraph
     7.2 states: "Lessor . . . shall keep in good
     order, condition, and repair the . . . parking lots . . . ."

The language in
Paragraph 7.2 is clear and unambiguous. The use of the word "shall"
imposes a mandatory duty on Lessor. Furthermore, the parking lot is explicitly
listed as an exception to the provisions of Paragraph 7.1, thereby placing the
responsibility for its maintenance squarely on Lessor. This allocation of
responsibility is explicit and definitive, leaving no room for ambiguity or
alternative interpretations that would permit the introduction of extrinsic
evidence, such as performance or declarations regarding the parties' intent, to
contradict the contract’s terms.
Further, the evidence
does not support Defendant's contention that the parties intended California
Cartage to have exclusive control over the premises. Martin Verma’s and Jeffrey
Pierson’s declarations assert that Intex is not responsible for maintaining the
parking lot, basing their conclusion "pursuant to Section 7.1(a)" of
the lease agreement. While their interpretation of Section 7.1(a) may be
technically accurate, their declarations are expressly limited to that
provision and fail to consider or address Section 7.2 which explicitly imposes
responsibility for maintaining the parking lot on the Lessor.
Defendant also
references the paving contract between Cal Cartage and AMS Paving and the
lighting contract between Cal Cartage and Anacapa Lighting. (Exhibit 9.)
However, this evidence does not establish that Cal Cartage had exclusive
control over the parking lot. The contracts do not state that Cal Cartage had
exclusive control over the subject parking lot. Although the contractors
submitted proposals directly to Cal Cartage, there is no evidence—such as a
declaration or other documentation—indicating that Intex did not participate in
or approve the lighting or paving projects. Common sense suggests that a
property owner would, at a minimum, be involved in approving such significant
projects being undertaken on its property. But, there is no evidence to suggest
otherwise. Accordingly, the present motion is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 