  Case Number:  23CHCV01859    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  F51 
DECEMBER 16, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV01859

 
Demurrer
Filed: 8/19/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
Linda Romney, as Successor Trustee of the Marie F. Kloss Revocable Trust Dated
5/21/1996 (“Cross-Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
sPower LLC, individually and as assignee of, and successor corporation to,
Adelanto Greenworks One LLC (“Cross-Complainant”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Cross-Defendant demurs against the first, second, and fourth
causes of action in Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is overruled. Cross-Defendant to file and serve her answer to
Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint within 20 days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contract action involving a parcel of vacant land,
identified as Assessor’s Parcel Number 3103- 591-03-0-000, located in
Victorville, the County of San Bernardino. (Compl. ¶ 7.) On 2/10/14,
Cross-Defendant, as seller, and Cross-Complainant’s predecessor, as buyer,
entered into a purchase and sale agreement for the subject parcel. (Ibid.)
Cross-Complainant deposited the sum of $206,250.00 with
Plaintiff-in-Interpleader Escrow Technologies, Inc., representing the buyer’s
deposit. (Id. at ¶ 9.) On 6/25/24, Cross-Complainant directed Plaintiff
to cancel the land purchase and release the buyer’s deposit in the sum of $76,250.00
back to Cross-Complainant, but Cross-Defendant refused to release the deposit,
arguing that she was entitled to the same. (Id. at ¶¶ 10–14.) The
disputed funds remain in escrow. (Id. at ¶ 14.)
 
On 6/26/23, Plaintiff filed its interpleader complaint
against Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant. On 10/12/23, Cross-Defendant
filed her answer, and cross-complaint, alleging against Cross-Complainant the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Ejectment; and (3)
Declaratory Relief. On 7/11/24, Cross-Complainant filed its answer to
Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On 7/12/24, Cross-Complainant filed the instant
cross-complaint, alleging against Cross-Defendant the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; (3) Declaratory Relief; and (4) Unjust Enrichment.
 
On 8/19/24, Cross-Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On
12/4/24, Cross-Complainant filed its opposition. On 12/5/24, Cross-Defendant
filed her reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Cross-Defendant demurs to Cross-Complainant’s
first, second, and fourth causes of action on the basis that they are barred by
the applicable statutes of limitation and therefore fail to allege facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Cross-Defendant’s
counsel fails to present the Court with any declaration attesting to the
parties’ meet and confer efforts. Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel did
not sufficiently meet and confer. However, “a determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
//
//
//
//
B.    
Breach
of Contract
 
Cross-Complainant’s first cause
of action alleges Breach of Contract against Cross-Defendant. To state a cause
of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.)
 
Here, Cross-Complainant alleges
that Cross-Defendant breached the purchase agreement, which states that “in the
event Romney refused to sell, transfer and convey the property to Adelanto,
Romney was obligated to execute escrow instructions refunding the money
Adelanto placed in escrow.” (Cross-Compl. ¶ 28.) “Romney failed and refused to
sell, transfer and convey the Property to Adelanto … and continues to fail and
refuse to execute those escrow instructions, which failure and refusal
constitutes a breach of the VLPA.” (Id. at ¶¶ 29–30.)
 
1.     
Statute
of Limitations
 
Cross-Defendant argues that
Cross-Complainant’s claims are time-barred by the applicable statute of
limitations. The statute of limitations for an action for breach of written contract
is four years. (Code Civ. Proc. § 337, subd. (a).) A statute of limitations
begins to run when a cause of action accrues, and “a cause of action accrues at
the time when the cause of action is complete with all of its elements.” (Fox
v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806–807 [quotations
and citations omitted].)
 
Cross-Defendant notes that here,
Cross-Complainant alleges in its cross-complaint that “on or about
February 9, 2016, Cross-Complainant, who was originally known as FTP Solar LLC
dissolved Adelanto Greenworks One LLC and at that time assumed all of
Adelanto’s assets and liabilities including the rights to the property which is
the subject of this lawsuit.” (Dem. 6:3–6.) Cross-Defendant argues that “this
admission by Cross-Complainant is evidence that as early as February 9, 2016,
they were aware of the alleged breach by Cross-Defendant. Cross-Complainant had
4 years from February 9, 2016, more specifically February 9, 2020, to have
filed this lawsuit. As this lawsuit was not filed until 2023/2024 time period,
it is barred by the applicable statute of limitations.” (Id. at 6:10–13.)
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant
asserts that “Romney’s demurrer fails to explain, if those defenses were a bar
to sPower’s claims, how it would not also bar her breach of contract and
indemnity claims. Nor does she provide any case law to support her demurrer.” (Opp.
1:20–22.) Cross-Complainant further argues that its claims are not time-barred
under the continuous accrual doctrine. (Id. at 6:21–24, citing Aryeh
v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192 [“under the
theory of continuous accrual, a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as
each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be
partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the
applicable limitations period.”].)
 
Cross-Complainant asserts that “here,
rather than execute the cancellation instructions and return the funds to
sPower upon receipt of the interpleader complaint, [Cross-Defendant] elected
not to and filed her [cross-complaint]. As such, the most recent breach of
contract and/or the duty of good faith and fair dealing is well within the
statutory period pursuant to the continuous accrual doctrine.” (Id. at 6:24–27.)
The Court notes that Cross-Defendant fails to address this argument in her
reply, and further notes that Cross-Complainant expressly alleges that
Cross-Defendant “continues to fail and refuse to execute those escrow
instructions, which failure and refusal constitutes a breach of the VLPA.”
(Cross-Compl. ¶ 30 [emphasis in original].)
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Cross-Complainant has sufficiently alleged the Cross-Defendant’s
continuous breach the subject agreement, and therefore finds that the
Cross-Defendant’s claims are not necessarily time-barred. Accordingly, the
demurrer against Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action is overruled on this
basis.
 
2.     
Unclean
Hands; Laches
 
Cross-Defendant further asserts
that “Cross-Complainant has intentionally delayed taking action. Their
unclean hands and the doctrine of laches prevents them from prevailing on this
cross-complaint and in the main action.” (Dem. 6:16–18.)
 
The unclean hands defense
“demands that a plaintiff act fairly in the matter for which he seeks a remedy.
He must come into court with clean hands, and keep them clean, or he will be
denied relief, regardless of the merits of his claim. … Any conduct that
violates conscience, or good faith, or other equitable standards of conduct is
sufficient cause to invoke the doctrine.” (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978–979.) “Whether the doctrine
of unclean hands applies is a question of fact.” (Id. at 978.) 
 
“Laches, as a successful
affirmative defense, requires a showing of the plaintiff’s unreasonable delay
in filing suit, together with either the plaintiff’s acquiescence in the
conduct about which it complains or prejudice resulting to the defendant
because of the delay.” (Blaser v. State Teachers’ Retirement System
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 507, 539.) “[I]t is well established, both in California
and generally, that laches applies to equitable actions, not actions at law.” (Id.
at 540.) “For laches to be a successful defense there must have been
unreasonable delay and prejudice to the defendant caused by that delay … For a
demurrer to be sustained both the delay and the injury must be disclosed in the
complaint.” (Sangiolo v. Sangiolo (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 511, 514.)
 
Here, Cross-Complainant asserts
that Cross-Defendant’s unclean hands argument fails because Cross-Defendant “does
not cite any case law, does not explain what misconduct sPower has done, nor
explain a relationship between the misconduct and the claimed injuries.” (Opp.
5:19–20.) Furthermore, as
Cross-Complainant observes, the doctrine of laches is an equitable defense, and
therefore is inapplicable to Plaintiff’s contract claims. (Id. at 6:13–15.)
Even if it were to apply, “Cross-Defendant does not cite to any factual
allegation of injury towards her.” (Id. at 5:25–26.)
 
The Court
agrees, and further notes that Cross-Defendant fails to address these points in
her reply. Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer against
Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action on these bases.
 
C.   
Breach
of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Cross-Complainant’s second cause of
action alleges against Cross-Defendant a breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with
the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v.
American Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise
nature and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the
underlying contract and the parties’ legitimate expectations arising from the
contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a
breach of the contract … and breach of a specific provision of the contract is
not ... necessary to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)
 
Here, Cross-Defendant’s arguments
against Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action are identical to those asserted
against Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action. For the reasons set forth
above, the Court overrules the demurrer against Cross-Complainant’s second
cause of action.
 
D.   
Unjust
Enrichment
 
Cross-Complainant’s third cause
of action alleges Unjust Enrichment against Cross-Defendant. “The elements for
a claim of unjust enrichment are receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of
the benefit at the expense of another. The theory of unjust enrichment requires
one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return either
the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly
enriched.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769
[quotations and citations omitted.])
 
Here, Cross-Complainant alleges
that “to the extent Romney claims some entitlement to the escrowed funds and/or
damages, awarding Romney any of those sums would be unjust, because she failed
to sell, transfer, and convey the Property.” (Cross-Compl. ¶ 47.)
 
Again, Cross-Defendant’s
arguments against Cross-Complainant’s third cause of action are identical to
those asserted against Cross-Complainant’s first and second causes of action.
Cross-Complainant argues that “as Romney has made no argument as to why the
Unjust Enrichment claim fails, she has not met her burden on demurrer and it
must be overruled.” (Opp. 4:27–5:2.) The Court agrees. Accordingly, for the
reasons set forth above, the Court overrules the demurrer against
Cross-Complainant’s third cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer
is overruled. Cross-Defendant to file and serve her answer to
Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint within 20 days.