  Case Number:  23GDCV00069    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 06/13/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV00069
Trial Date: 09/30/2024
Case Name: NORA SHAMIRYAN v. CITY OF GLENDALE; and
DOES 1-50 inclusive


TENTATIVE
RULING ON MSJ
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Nora Shamiryan, filed the instant action on 1/12/2023.
 
Plaintiff alleges
that on May 24, 2022, she tripped and fell as a result of the defective and
uneven/raised sidewalk which is owned, operated, or otherwise controlled by
Defendant, City of Glendale.
 
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment was initially scheduled for February 9, 2024. However, two
notices of continuances were filed on 12/12/2023 and 3/25/2024. The notice
filed on 3/25/2024 indicated that the motion was continued from April 26, 2024
to June 13, 2024.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendant City of Glendale (“City”) will and hereby does move the Court
for an order, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 473c,
granting judgment in its favor as to the entire complaint on the following
grounds:
 
1. Plaintiff’s sole cause of action against
City —Dangerous Condition of Public Property fails as a matter of law because
the subject offset constitutes a trivial defect.1 
 
2. Plaintiff’s sole cause of action against
City —Dangerous Condition of Public Property fails as a matter of law because
even if the offset was not trivial, City did not have notice of the condition.
 
This Motion will be based on this Notice, on
the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, on the declarations and
exhibits submitted herewith, on the Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts, and upon such other and further evidence, both oral and documentary, as
may be presented at the hearing of this Motion.”
 
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
Footnote 1 states, “On March 30, 2023, the
Court dismissed Plaintiff’s first cause of action for general negligence and
second cause of action, count one, for negligence at her request.” (Def. Mot.
p. 2.)
 
Procedural
Moving Party: Defendant, City of Glendale
 
Responding
Party: Plaintiff, Nora Shamiryan
 
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Evidence in Support; Proposed Order
 
Opposing
Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Rosescu Declaration; Shakhgeldyan
Declaration; Proof of Service; Proposed Order
 
Reply
Papers: Reply; Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence; Objections to Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement; Proposed Order
 
Section 437c(a)(2)
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 437c(2),
notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties
to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the
notice is served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be
increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of California.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(2).)
Here, Defendant’s motion is timely.
Section 437c(a)(3)
“The motion shall be heard no
later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” (CCP § 437c(a)(3).)
Here, the motion is timely.
LEGAL STANDARD MOTION SUMMARY JUDGMENT
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff
or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §437c(p)(2).)
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence
sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the
defendant’s showing. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
ANALYSIS
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
Toeppe v. City of San Diego outlines the statutory scheme for causes of
action for dangerous condition of public property:
A
dangerous condition of public property “means a condition of property that
creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant)
risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in
a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (§ 830,
subd. (a). The elements for that cause of action are:
“(1) a dangerous condition of public property;
(2) a foreseeable risk, arising from
the dangerous condition, of the kind of injury the plaintiff suffered;
(3) actionable conduct in connection with
the condition, i.e., either negligence on
the part of a public employee in creating it,
or failure by
the entity to correct it after notice of its existence and dangerousness;
(4) a causal relationship between the dangerous condition and
the plaintiff's injuries; and (5) compensable damage sustained by the
plaintiff.” (Cole v. Town of Los Gatos (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
749, 757-758, 140 Cal.Rptr.3d 722; § 835.)
(Toeppe v. City of San Diego (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 921,
925-926.)
Or as Government Code § 835 defines the cause of action:
Except as
provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either:
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.
(Gov. Code § 835.)
““Dangerous condition” means a condition of property that creates a
substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of
injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a
manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code
§ 830(a).)
Further, as stated in Caloroso v. Hathaway:
The
decision whether the defect is dangerous as a matter of law does not rest
solely on the size of the crack in the walkway, since a tape measure alone
cannot be used to determine whether the defect was trivial. A court should
decide whether a defect may be dangerous only after considering all of the
circumstances surrounding the accident that might make the defect more
dangerous than its size alone would suggest. (Fielder v. City of
Glendale, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p. 734, 139 Cal.Rptr. 876.) Aside
from the size of the defect, the court should consider whether the walkway had
any broken pieces or jagged edges and other conditions of the walkway
surrounding the defect, such as whether there was debris, grease or water
concealing the defect, as well as whether the accident occurred at night in an
unlighted area or some other condition obstructed a pedestrian's view of the
defect.
(Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 927.)
Additionally, Government Code § 830.2 defines when a condition of
public property is not dangerous:
A
condition is not a dangerous condition within the meaning of this chapter if
the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the
plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition
was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property
was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that
it would be used.
(Gov. Code § 830.2.)
As stated in Stathoulis v. City of Montebello:
The
trivial defect doctrine is not an affirmative defense. It is an aspect of a
landowner's duty which a plaintiff must plead and prove. (Caloroso,
supra, 122 Cal.App.4th at p. 927, 19 Cal.Rptr.3d
254.) The doctrine permits a court to determine whether a defect is
trivial as a matter of law, rather than submitting the question to a
jury. (Ursino, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 399, 237 Cal.Rptr.
413.) “Where reasonable minds can reach only one conclusion—that there was
no substantial risk of injury—the issue is a question of law, properly resolved
by way of summary judgment.” (Caloroso, supra, 122 Cal.App.4th at
p. 929, 19 Cal.Rptr.3d 254; Davis v. City of Pasadena (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 701, 704, 50 Cal.Rptr.2d 8.) “The rule which
permits a court to determine ‘triviality’ as a matter of law rather than always
submitting the issue to a jury provides a check valve for the elimination from
the court system of unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a
property owner what amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who
come upon the property.... [A] landowner is not an insurer of the safety
of its users.” (Ursino, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 399, 237
Cal.Rptr. 413.)
(Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 559, 567.)
Discussion – Dangerous Condition
Defendant argues that the defects that caused
the instant injury were trivial and that there was no dangerous condition as a
matter of law.
The following material facts of Defendant went undisputed by
Plaintiff:
1. On the
afternoon of May 24, 2022, Plaintiff left her home to go for a walk.
2. The weather
was sunny and clear.
3. Plaintiff
was mainly looking straight ahead as she walked.
4. At
about 2:30 to 3:00 pm, Plaintiff tripped and fell due to an offset sidewalk at
600 South Street, near the intersection of Kenilworth Avenue in Glendale.
8. There
were no shadows covering the offset sidewalk.
(UMF 1-8.)
What there is much dispute about is the height of the uplift in the
sidewalk that Plaintiff allegedly tripped over.
Defendant argues that the height of the uplift of the offset sidewalk
where Plaintiff tripped is 1.5 inches or less. Specifically, Defendant provided
the declaration of Jesus Valencia, a Cement Worker Finisher for the City of
Glendale Public Works, that measured the offset at its highest point, which was
recorded as 1 and 1/8 (or 1.125) inches. (See Valencia Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)
In Opposition, as to the height of the offset, Plaintiff disputes UMF
5 regarding the height of the offset by arguing:
The height
of the uplift of the offset sidewalk where Plaintiff precisely tripped [sic] is
not less than 1.5 inches. Moreover, Exhibit C which has been referenced in the
Declaration of Mr. Valencia depicts one photograph of a measurement of the
section of the sidewalk where Plaintiff alleges she tripped and fell, however,
the photograph is taken at an angle that does not show the complete width of
the defective sidewalk. In fact, Plaintiff refers to her expert Mr. Rosescu’s
photograph referenced in his declaration which does in fact show the exact
location of the measurement. Thus, it is unclear what portion of the sidewalk
Mr. Valencia was measuring, and is therefore disputable as to the alleged 1 1/8
inches measurement.
(Pl. Sep. Stmt. UMF 5.)
In relevant part of Plaintiff’s expert’s (Philip Rosescu, a Forensic
Engineer with Aperture, see Rosescu Decl. ¶ 3) declaration, Rosescu states:
At the
time of incident, Ms. Shamiryan was walking eastward along the sidewalk of
South Street when her left foot encountered a height differential causing her
to trip and fall. The subject uplift was repaired with an asphalt ramp at the
time of Aperture’s May 17, 2023 inspection however, inspection photographs
indicate that the subject uplift measured approximately 1-1/2 inches in height.
(Rosescu Decl. ¶ 7.)
The Reply points out that Rosescu never inspected the location of the
incident, and instead offered opinions based on his review of photographs,
therefore his opinion lacks foundation and personal knowledge.
Further, the Reply argues that Rosescu is an engineer, and he
improperly offered opinions in the field of human factors. Reply also argued
that under Evidence Code § 801(b), Rosescu is not qualified to offer opinions
in the field of human factors.
Complicating the analysis here are the inconsistencies in Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony.
For example, Defendant’s UMF 7 states, “Although there were some
leaves and branches on the sidewalk, nothing blocked Plaintiff’s view of the
offset.”
However, the deposition testimony of Plaintiff doesn’t fully support
this proposition because Plaintiff’s deposition testimony is unclear at best.
Q. Okay.
Was there anything obstructing your view of the raised sidewalk at the time of
the accident?
A. No.
(Shamiryan Depo. p.23, ln 23-25.)
Even though Plaintiff admits that nothing was obstructing her view of
the raised sidewalk at the time of the accident, before she answered that
question, she answered as follows:
Q. Okay.
And did you say that there were branches or something or weeds or something
there? 
A. Yes,
dry leaves, branches.  
Q. Except
for the fact that we don't see any dry leaves or branches in Exhibit 2, does it
accurately show the way the sidewalk looked at the time of the accident? 
A. Yes,
it's the same. There was no green because all the green had dried.
(Shamiryan Depo. p. 19, ln 3-10.)
Therefore, at best, Plaintiff’s testimony is noncommittal; at worst,
it seems to undermine her claims here.
Further, Defendant’s UMF 6 states, “The offset sidewalk did not have
any jagged edges or broken pieces.” (Def. UMF 6.)
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony states:
Q. Okay.
That's fine. So the raised sidewalk that you tripped on -- it did not have any
jagged edges, did it? 
A. The
edges of the sidewalk?
 Q. Right. They weren't jagged in any way, like
jagged and broken; right? 
A. I don't
know. I couldn't tell.
(Shamiryan Depo. p. 23, ln 16-22.)
The Plaintiff’s deposition ranges from indifferent to contrary to the
legal positions taken by Plaintiff in opposition here. Given this, and the
seemingly undisputed testimony of the Defendant’s expert, it appears that the
Plaintiff has failed to establish that there is a triable dispute of a material
fact as to the issue of the dangerous condition. 
Constructive Notice


In the event that the Court is convinced otherwise as to the first
issue—whether there was a dangerous condition—the Court will take up the issue
of constructive notice.
Further, under § 835.2:
(a) A
public entity had actual notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of
subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual knowledge of the existence of
the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.
(b) A
public entity had constructive notice of a dangerous condition within the
meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes
that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an
obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have
discovered the condition and its dangerous character. On the issue of due care,
admissible evidence includes but is not limited to evidence as to:
(1) Whether
the existence of the condition and its dangerous character would have been
discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate (considering
the practicability and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and
magnitude of the potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise)
to inform the public entity whether the property was safe for the use or uses
for which the public entity used or intended others to use the public property
and for uses that the public entity actually knew others were making of the
public property or adjacent property.
(2) Whether
the public entity maintained and operated such an inspection system with due
care and did not discover the condition.
(Gov. Code § 835.2.)
Here, the parties do not appear to be arguing that there was actual
notice. The parties seem to be disputing whether or not there was constructive
notice.
With respect to Defendant arguing that there was no constructive
notice, Defendant’s UMF 9-10 states:
9. After
Plaintiff filed a Claim for Damages, Matthew Binder, Street Maintenance
Supervisor, searched City records for complaints or reports of sidewalk defects
or accidents at the subject location going back to the year 2013.
10. Mr.
Binder found no complaints, service requests or reports about the offset that
pre-dated Plaintiff’s accident.
(Def. UMF 9-10.)
In Plaintiff’s Opposition Separate Statement to UMF 9-10, for both 9
and 10, Plaintiff responded with the following:
Defendant
City of Glendale’s Person Most Knowledgeable, Matthew Binder, was deposed on
April 10, 2024. Mr. Binder testified that he was unsure if he or someone else
from his office inputted the information into the City’s database to run a
query for complaints or reports of sidewalk defects or accidents at the subject
location going to back the year 2013. Mr. Binder testified that he has been
trained to run a search of the address closest to the defective sidewalk to
populate a claims history. Mr. Binder, however, only speculates that the
subject search performed by someone else would have been done using the same
parameters. The subject database does not include any inspections that would
have been performed by the City that is not in response to a complaint. In
fact, Mr. Binder’s declaration indicates that he found no complaints, service
requests or reports about the offset that pre-dated Plaintiff’s accident, and
no mentioned of inspections of the subject sidewalk and the surrounding area
that were performed prior to the subject incident. Moreover, Mr. Binder
testified that the city’s forestry department is responsible for pruning and
maintaining city trees located in city parkways.  Mr. Binder testified that the if a city
employee, including urban forest employees, who notice uplifted sidewalks are
mandated to follow the city’s ‘quality of life’ policy to report any conditions
that can affect the quality of life, including uplifted sidewalks that can
cause injury to traversers, like Plaintiff. Furthermore, Mr. Binder testified
that on November 7, 2017, the city staff recommended that the city council
approve a motion awarding the construction contract to Excel Paving Company in
the amount of $1,258,891.50 for the safe routes to schools improvements
project, which included street and sidewalk improvements for the benefit of
nearby schools. This effectively placed the city on notice of the subject
dangerous condition of public property, where Plaintiff fell, as early as
November 2017. The location of the subject incident was included in the scope
of work that was to be performed by Excel Paving however Mr. Binder did not
know, despite being PMK presented for this case, if Excel Paving improve any of
the sidewalks in front of 600 South Street (location of subject incident).
(Pl. Oppo. Sept. Stmt, UMF 9-10.)
The Court notes that because Plaintiff’s Opposition to UMF 9-10 is
difficult to decipher, the Court will include Plaintiff’s arguments asserted in
its opposition memorandum:
The Google
image (attached to Mr. Rosescu’s Declaration as Figure “3”) shows the dangerous
condition existed as far back as November 2017, a good 4.5 years prior to this
incident. (Decl. of Rosescu P.4 ) Certainly 4.5 years is long enough to
discover a dangerous condition on sidewalks. 
The City
admits that it does not have any system to inspect the sidewalks for dangerous
conditions. (Depo of Mathew Binder, P. 16 L.18-21.) Thus, there is evidence
that there was no reasonable inspection system, as there was no inspection
system at all! [sic]
Defendant
City of Glendale’s Person Most Knowledgeable, Matthew Binder, was deposed on
April 10, 2024. Mr. Binder testified that he was unsure if he or someone else
from his office inputted the information into the City’s database to run a
query for complaints or reports of sidewalk defects or accidents at the subject
location going to back the year 2013. Mr. Binder testified that he has been
trained to run a search of the address closest to the defective sidewalk to
populate a claims history. Mr. Binder, however, only speculates that the
subject search performed by someone else would have been done using the same
parameters. The subject database does not include any inspections that would
have been performed by the City that is not in response to a complaint. 
In fact,
Mr. Binder’s declaration indicates that he found no complaints, service
requests or reports about the offset that pre-dated Plaintiff’s accident, and
no mentioned of inspections of the subject sidewalk and the surrounding area
that were performed prior to the subject incident. Moreover, Mr. Binder
testified that the city’s forestry department is responsible for pruning and maintaining
city trees located in city parkways. Mr. Binder testified that the if a city
employee, including urban forest employees, who notice uplifted sidewalks are
mandated to follow the city’s ‘quality of life’ policy to report any conditions
that can affect the quality of life, including uplifted sidewalks that can
cause injury to traversers, like Plaintiff. Furthermore, Mr. Binder testified
that on November 7, 2017, the city staff recommended that the city council
approve a motion awarding the construction contract to Excel Paving Company in
the amount of $1,258,891.50 for the safe routes to schools’ improvements
project, which included street and sidewalk improvements for the benefit of
nearby schools. This effectively placed the city on notice of the subject
dangerous condition of public property, where Plaintiff fell, as early as
November 2017. The location of the subject incident was included in the scope
of work that was to be performed by Excel Paving however Mr. Binder did not
know, despite being PMK presented for this case, if Excel Paving improve any of
the sidewalks in front of 600 South Street (location of subject incident).
(Oppo. p. 16-17.)
In Reply, Defendant asserted several objections to the evidence that
the Opposition relied on for Defendant having constructive notice.
The Court will hear argument as to if there was constructive notice on
behalf of the City.
The Court will hear argument.  The
Opposition is difficult to decipher as to the arguments asserted, and as to
what evidence the Opposition is relying on. If the Plaintiff plans to rely on
specific evidence, they need to point the Court to precisely where they are
obtaining their evidence. 
“The questions of whether a dangerous condition could have been
discovered by reasonable inspection and whether there was adequate time for
preventive measures are properly left to the jury.” (Carson v. Facilities
Development Co. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 830, 843.)
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court’s tentative ruling is that the Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
 