 Case Number:  19LBCV00551    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, MOC Products Company, Inc. filed this action against Defendants,
Hooman Automotive Group and Hooman Michael Nissani for breach of contract and
related claims arising out of Defendants’ alleged breach of an exclusive
distribution contract.  Plaintiff filed
the complaint on 9/10/19.  Plaintiff has
added numerous defendants as doe defendants in the action.  
 
On 8/17/23, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions
against Defendants, RHH Automotive, Inc. and RHN, Inc.  The Court also imposed issue and evidentiary sanctions
against Defendants, R&H Automotive Group, HK Automotive, Inc., and Hooman
Michael Nissani on a variety of issues, including that Nissani is the alter ego
of the viable entity defendants, MOC and Hooman entered into a written contract,
Nissani and the viable entity defendants failed to perform under the contract, Plaintiff
was harmed by the failure to perform, alter ego is decided in favor of
Plaintiff as to Nissani and the viable entity defendants, liability is decided
in favor of Plaintiff against Nissani and the viable entity defendants, the
issue that there was an existence of a contract is decided in favor of Plaintiff
and against Nissani and the viable entity defendants, the issue that there was
a breach of the contract is to be decided in favor of Plaintiff and against
Nissani and the viable entity defendants, the issue that the breach of contract
caused damages is to be decided in favor of Plaintiff and against Nissani and
the viable entity defendants, and the issues regarding alter ego liability,
formation of contract, performance of contract, and breach of contract are in
favor of Plaintiff and against Nissani and the viable entity defendants.  The Court also granted the motion for
evidentiary sanctions and issued an order precluding Defendants from
introducing evidence on a variety of issues.
 
On 8/22/23, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an
amended complaint.  On 8/24/23, Plaintiff
filed his operative First Amended Complaint. 
The FAC includes causes of action for breach of contract, quantum
meruit, account stated, open book account, fraud – intentional misrepresentation,
fraud – negligent misrepresentation, fraud – concealment, and fraud – false promise.
 
On 1/30/24, the Court was scheduled to hear Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings directed at the original complaint.  The MJP was filed on 6/30/23, before the
Court granted the motion for leave to file an amended complaint.  Notably, the amended complaint’s first cause
of action, for breach of contract, did not meaningfully change from the
original complaint to the FAC.  On 1/30/24,
the Court continued the hearing on the MJP to 2/08/24, to be heard concurrently
with the demurrer to the FAC.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint (and Companion Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
directed at Original Complaint)
a.     First Cause of Action
Plaintiff’s first and only cause of action in the original complaint was
for breach of contract.  Plaintiff’s
first cause of action in the FAC remains one for breach of contract, and the
cause of action has not meaningfully changed since the original complaint was
filed.  
 
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings directed at the original
complaint, as well as their demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, argue (a)
the entire cause of action for breach of contract fails because the terms of
the contract are not sufficiently certain to permit Plaintiff any recovery on
the claim, and (b) the cause of action, to the extent it is pleaded against parties
other than Hooman Automotive Group, fails to state a cause of action because
only Plaintiff and HAG are parties to the purported contract.
 
As Plaintiff correctly notes in opposition to the MJP and the demurrer,
the Court’s ruling on the motion for terminating sanctions is dispositive in
this regard.  The Court’s ruling, as
noted above, holds that (a) there was a binding contract between the parties,
(b) HAG breached the contract, (c) the breached caused Plaintiff damage, and
(d) all other named defendants are alter egos of HAG such that they are liable
for the breach.  
 
Defendants’ reply is silent concerning the sanctions previously
imposed.  Defendants’ reply is also
silent concerning the effect of the alter ego allegations in the complaint and
FAC on the claim against the defendants other than HAG.  The pleading challenges directed at the cause
of action for breach of contract are therefore denied and overruled, respectively.  
 
b.    
Common
Counts
Defendants argue the common counts causes of action rise and fall with
the breach of contract cause of action.  Because
the challenges to the breach of contract cause of action are overruled, the
demurrer to the common counts causes of action is also overruled.
 
c.     Fraud
Defendants argue the fraud-based
causes of action are not pled with the requisite specificity.  They concede the purported fraud is alleged
to consist of a misrepresentation made in the parties’ written contract.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendant,
Nissani misrepresented HAG’s existence as a corporate entity when presenting
the contract for signature.  Defendants
argue the cause of action lacks specificity because it fails to plead to who
drafted the contract, when the contract was drafted, or who provided the
information contained in the contract that is alleged to have been a
misrepresentation.  Defendants cite
general law requiring a fraud-based cause of action to include details about
who said what, to whom, when, and by what means.  All of those elements of the claim, however,
are pled; Plaintiff alleges Nissani made the representations, in writing, by
means of signing the subject contract on behalf of a non-existent entity.  There is no case cited for the proposition
that Plaintiff must plead who drafted the contract, when it was drafted, or who
provided the information in the contract. 
Indeed, this is nonsensical.  The misrepresentation
is made when Nissani signs the contract on behalf of a non-existent
entity.  The demurrer to the fraud-based
causes of action is therefore also overruled.
 
d.     Conclusion
The motion for judgment on the pleadings
is denied.  The demurrer is
overruled.  Defendants are ordered to
file a responsive pleading within ten days.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   
 