 Case Number:  23LBCV00572    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Victor Felix filed this
action against Defendant, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. for violation of
the Song-Beverly Act.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses
a.    
Prior Order
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 12/14/23.  Prior
to the hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling continuing the hearing to
require the parties to meet and confer further in an attempt to resolve the
outstanding issues.  The parties resolved
the majority of their issues, but RPDs 11 and 12 remain in dispute; the parties
filed a joint statement, as ordered by the Court, on 1/17/24.  
 
b.    
RPDs 11 and 12
These RPDs seek production of
documents consulted and/or followed by Defendant’s authorized repair facilities
for the diagnosis of the concerns pertaining to the electrical defect in the subject
vehicle (11) and documents consulted and/or followed by Defendant’s authorized
repair facilities for the diagnosis of the concerns pertaining to the engine
defect in the subject vehicle (12).  
 
c.    
Responses
Defendant responded by setting
forth a variety of objections.  It then
states, “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, and
interpreting the request as excluding privileged communications between VWGoA
and its attorneys, all responsive documents in the demanded category that are
in VWGoA's possession, custody, or control and to which no objection has been
made will be included in the production. Please see repair orders (Exhibit C)
and TSBs/Recalls (Exhibit G). Discovery is ongoing.”
 
d.     Burden
to Justify Objections
The burden to justify an objection to
a discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  Defendant does not,
in its opposing points and authorities and/or separate statement, address many
of the objections asserted.  Those objections
are therefore not justified and overruled. 
The Court asks Defendant to interpose only objections it intends to
justify in the future.   
 
To the extent Defendant is standing
on its objections, it failed to justify them. 
For starters, in its original separate statement (filed on 11/29/23) in
opposition to the motion, with respect to both RPD 11 and RPD 12, Defendant purports
to provide a “statement of sufficiency re: no. 10.”  RPD 10 is not at issue.  Defendant then discusses, in the body of its
statement, RPDs 14 and 20-29, none of which are at issue.  Defendant then argues meet and confer was insufficient
because Plaintiff did not address RPDs 4, 5, 9, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 43, 44, 45,
47, 48, 49, 53, and 59.  None of these
RPDs are at issue either.  
 
In its joint statement, filed on
1/17/24, it argues the documents at issue are not relevant because they relate
to vehicles other than Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
The Court disagrees.  One element of
a Song-Beverly complaint is that the defendant’s failure to buy back was not reasonable.  Clearly, a manufacturer’s communications with
its dealerships concerning whether, when, and how to comply with warranty terms
are relevant to this issue.  While Santana
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.4th 334, 346 was decided in a
different context and not as a discovery motion, the ultimate holding was that evidence
of a defendant’s failure to comply with the terms of its own warranty is admissible
in a Song-Beverly case.  The relevance
objection is therefore overruled.
 
Additionally, the Court finds the
response itself deficient.  The response states
that Defendant will provide all documents to which no objection has been
made.  As noted above, Defendant has not
met its burden to justify its objections, and therefore this response is
insufficient.  Additionally, CCP
§2031.240(b) requires a party objecting to an RPD to “identify with particularity
the specific document or evidence demanded as to which the objection is made”
and “set forth the specific ground for objection.”  §2031.240(c)(1) requires this information,
when necessary, to be made in the form of a privilege log.  Defendant has not, in any manner, identified
any documents it is withholding based on any objection being asserted. 
 
Because the responses are
deficient, the motion is granted in full. 
Defendant is ordered to serve further responses, without objections,
within ten days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.