  Case Number:  19LBCV00214    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 MOTION TO DISMISS
Moving Party:               Defendants and Cross-Defendants, Eugene Rotondo,
Timothy Moriarty, James A. Wieser, Jerome Chiaro and Donald Heckman
Opposing Party:           Plaintiffs and Cross-Complainants, Tracy Alcantar and Aristides
Gascon
Notice:                         OK
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
Moving Party:               Defendants and Cross-Defendants, Eugene Rotondo,
Timothy Moriarty, James A. Wieser, Jerome Chiaro and Donald Heckman 
Opposing Party:           Plaintiffs and Cross-Complainants, Tracy Alcantar and Aristides
Gascon
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     Motion
to Dismiss
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Gene Rotondo, Timothy Moriarty,
James Weiser, Jerome Chiaro, and Donald Heckman, collectively referred to as “Moving
Parties,” move to dismiss (a) the cross-complaint filed on 1/25/18, (b) the FAC
filed on 5/14/19, and (c) the FACC filed on 11/18/21.  Moving Parties contend each of the subject pleadings,
all of which were filed by Acapulco Inn Holdings LLC, Tracy Alcantar, and
Aristides Gascon (collectively referred to as “Opposing Parties”), are based on
alleged invasion of the same primary right, and the claims should be dismissed
because they were not brought to trial within five years after the first of the
claims was filed.  
 
Alcantar and Gascon oppose the
motion.  They argue trial “commenced” on
3/23/23, because the Court called witnesses and heard a contested issue.  They therefore contend the statute is
satisfied, and the motion must be dismissed.
 
In reply, Moving Parties argue
Alcantar and Gascon are improperly asserting AIH’s defense to the motion.  They also argue the proceedings on 3/23/23
were law and motion proceedings, at most akin to a partial summary judgment
hearing, and trial did not commence.  
 
b.    
Proceedings Between 1/19/23 and 3/23/23
The Court was scheduled to try this
case on 1/20/23.  On 1/19/23, the Court
held a final status conference.  At the
FSC, the Court noted that Acapulco Inn Holdings was a suspended corporation,
and took the 1/20/23 trial date off calendar. 
The Court scheduled a hearing on two motions – one for declaratory
relief and one for derivative action – for 3/23/23.  The Court indicated, “Trial will be scheduled
after ruling on the motions.”  
 
On 3/23/23, the Court called the
matter for hearing.  The Court swore
Alcantar and Gascon in and took testimony from them.  The Court then made findings – specifically,
that Heckman has a 10% interest in the business, Rotondo and Moriarty have had
no interest in the business since 11/21/13, and Chiaro and Belmont Station,
Inc. have never been owners nor have held interest int eh business.  The Court granted the motion to dismiss the
derivative action because AHI was suspended. 
The Court permitted Plaintiffs to file a motion for leave to file an
amended complaint in light of the findings. 
Notably, to date, Plaintiff has not filed a motion for leave to amend
the complaint.  
 
The case is scheduled for an FSC on
3/15/24 and trial on 3/18/24.  
 
c.     Issue
Presented
The parties appear to agree that,
if trial was not commenced on 3/18/24, all of the subject complaints and cross-complaints
must be dismissed pursuant to the mandatory five-year statute.  Moving Parties, in reply, spent substantial time
arguing Alcantar and Gascon are improperly arguing on behalf of AIH, but they
do not meaningfully articulate how this affects the outcome of the motion;
Alcantar and Gascon’s arguments apply equally to their own claims, limited as
they may be.  
 
d.     Law
Governing Commencement of Trial
Pursuant to Stueve v. Nemer (2017)
7 Cal.App.5th 746, 752, trial “commences” when the jury is sworn or,
in a nonjury trial, when the first witness is sworn.  Pursuant to Sagi Plumbing v. Chartered Const.
Corp. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 443, 448, when a trial is bifurcated,
trial of the first issue is treated as a “partial trial” and satisfies the
five-year statute, so long as the remaining claims are related to the timely
tried claims.  
 
e.     Analysis
This is a difficult issue, and
neither party has cited authority directly on point.  As noted above, the Court originally held a
Final Status Conference and was scheduled to hold trial before the five-year
statute ran.  The Court, recognizing the
complexity of the issues presented, set some issues for “hearing on motions,” which
motions were also set prior to the running of the five-year statute.  The Court called witnesses, heard testimony,
and examined exhibits at the hearing on the motions, and ultimately made
conclusions of both fact and law affecting the outcome of the parties’ rights
and remedies.
 
The Court is inclined to find that
the 3/23/23 hearing, although titled as one for two “motions,” was actually the
first phase of the trial of this action. 
The hearing was set as a result of trial issues that arose at the FSC,
and the hearing was evidentiary in nature, in the same manner as a trial.  Notably, the currently scheduled trial is a
non-jury trial, such that the law governing commencement of an action in a
non-jury trial applies.  
 
Moving Parties point out, in reply,
that the Court, at the November of 2023 status conference, set the case for
trial in March of 2024 “to avoid the five-year rule.”  Moving Parties do not provide evidence in
this regard.  This argument cuts both
ways.  On the one hand, it does show, as
Moving Parties argue, that the Court did not consider the 3/23/23 hearing to be
“commencement of trial.”  On the other
hand, it shows that the parties and the Court, at the status conference in
November, did not believe the five-year statute had run.  Regardless, whether or not trial commenced is
a purely legal issue, and again, the Court is inclined to find that it did
commence, such that the statute is satisfied. 

 
2.     Motion
for Terminating Sanctions
a.     Parties’
Positions
Moving Parties seek terminating
sanctions.  The Court, on 9/21/23, heard
and granted their motion to compel AIH to produce responsive documents and pay
sanctions.  Moving Parties contend AIH
has not complied with the order, and therefore terminating sanctions should be imposed.  Alternatively, Moving Parties seek issue
and/or evidentiary sanctions.  Moving Parties
also seek imposition of monetary sanctions.
 
Alcantar and Gascon, in opposition to
the motion, contend all documents have been produced or are not in AIH’s
possession, custody, or control.  They
contend the failure to oppose the September 2023 motion was a result of
inadvertence on the part of Counsel, but there is nothing else to produce.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 2/01/24.  The Court has not,
to date, received any reply papers.  The Court
will not consider late-filed reply papers. 

 
b.     Analysis

By way of this motion, Moving
Parties seek relief against AIH only. 
They do not seek any relief against Alcantar and/or Gascon.  The only parties who filed opposition to the
motion are Alcantar and Gascon.  Notably,
all parties appear to agree that AIH is suspended, such that it cannot
prosecute its claims or defend claims asserted against it.  
 
From a practical standpoint, the Court
is not clear on what the effect of an order terminating AIH’s claims would
be.  Trial is set to commence (or
continue, as discussed above) on 3/18/24. 
It does not appear AIH is actively participating in this case, or
attempting to have its corporate status revived.  The Court has already decided Alcantar and
Gascon cannot pursue derivative claims on behalf of AIH.  
 
If AIH is not participating in the
action, it does not appear an order terminating its complaint(s) would have any
effect.  The Court is inclined to deny
the motion as moot in light of AIH’s suspended status.  If the parties believe this is in error, they
must appear and articulate what practical effect the order would have on the
trial at the time of the hearing.  
3.     Conclusion
The motion to dismiss is
denied.  The motion for terminating
sanctions is also denied.  
 
Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   