 Case Number:  23LBCV00084    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jun Mock, on behalf of
the State of California, as private attorney general, filed this action against
Defendant, Blackstone Gaming, LLC for violations of California wage and hour
law.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff
to arbitrate this action, contending he signed an arbitration agreement upon
commencement of employment and the agreement covers all claims at issue in this
lawsuit.  It contends that, pursuant to
Viking River, Plaintiff must arbitrate his individual claims and the
representative claims must be dismissed due to lack of standing.  Alternatively, Defendant seeks a ruling staying
the action pending the Supreme Court’s decision in Adolph v. Uber Technologies.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He contends that (a) the parties’ agreement
is ambiguous and must be construed against Defendant, and therefore the entire
motion should be denied, or (b) if his individual claims must be arbitrated,
the Court should stay, rather than dismiss, the representative claims pending
the outcome of arbitration pursuant to the recent Supreme Court decision in Adolph.  Additionally, on 1/30/24, Plaintiff filed a
notice of supplemental authority, pursuant to which he attaches the recent
decision of DeMarinis v. Heritage Bank. 
Plaintiff does not discuss the case, but appears to be citing it to stand
for the position that the arbitration agreement in this case should not be
enforced at all.  
 
Defendant, in opposition, concedes
Adolph applies and requires submitting the individual claims to arbitration
while staying the representative claims pending the outcome of
arbitration.  It contends DiMarinis is
distinguishable and does not require wholesale denial of the motion.  
 
b.    
Stay or Dismiss Representative Claims?
The first issue the Court will
address is whether, if the Court grants the motion to compel arbitration of the
individual claims, the Court should stay or dismiss the representative claims.  This issue was recently decided by the California
Supreme Court in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.  The Court unequivocally held that,
in the event individual claims are compelled into arbitration, the
representative claims must be stayed, rather than dismissed, pending the
outcome of the arbitration.  Indeed,
Defendant concedes as much in reply.  
 
c.    
Arbitration of Individual Claims
The more difficult issue is whether
the Court should order Plaintiff to arbitrate his individual claims.  Plaintiff argues ¶3 of the parties’ agreement,
entitled “CLASS AND REPRESENTATIVE ACTION WAIVER,” is ambiguous, must be
construed against Defendant, and renders the agreement entirely
unenforceable.  That provision provides:
The Parties expressly intend and
agree that each will forego pursuing any covered Claim on a class, collective,
or representative basis and will not assert class, collective or representative
action claims against the other in arbitration or otherwise. The Parties shall
only submit their own, individual claims in arbitration.  The Parties shall be entitled to seek
dismissal of any class, collective, or representative claims that the other
party attempts to bring and may assert this Agreement as a defense in any
proceeding in which class, collective, or representative actions are
brought.   
This waiver does not apply to
representative actions that cannot be waived as a matter of law (such as the
California Private Attorneys General act or public injunctive relief under
California Business and Professions Code § 17203). Such claims must proceed in
the applicable state or federal court.  
The Parties further agree that any
question regarding the arbitrability of class, collective, or representative
claims be decided by a court of law and not an arbitrator.  
 
The Court has read and considered
DeMarinis v. Heritage Bank of Commerce, 2023 Cal.App.LEXIS 1009 (December 11,
2023) in this regard.  The Court, in discussing
the DeMarinis agreement, noted the agreement’s terms as follows:
A section of the arbitration
agreement entitled “Waiver of Right to File Class, Collective, or
Representative Actions” (waiver provision) contains two paragraphs. The first
paragraph states, in relevant part: “The Company and I may bring claims against
the other only in its or my individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class
member in any purported class or representative proceeding. There shall be no
right or authority for any dispute to be brought, heard, or arbitrated on a
class, collective, or representative basis and the Arbitrator may not
consolidate or join the claims of other persons or Parties who may be similarly
situated.”
The second paragraph of the waiver
provision includes a nonseverability clause stating: “The Company and I
acknowledge and agree that the conditions set forth in [the waiver] provision
are material terms of this Agreement and may not be modified or severed, in
whole or in part. If this specific provision is found to be unenforceable, then
the entirety of this Agreement shall be null and void.” Plaintiffs refer to
this last sentence as a “poison pill,” and we do likewise. (See, e.g.,
Westmoreland v. Kindercare Education LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 967, 972, 307
Cal.Rptr.3d 554 (Westmoreland) [referring to clause invalidating agreement upon
unenforceability of waiver as “poison pill”].)
 
The DeMarinis Court went on to hold
that employers are free to draft arbitration provisions that require
arbitration of individual claims but permit judicial resolution of
representative claims.  Employers cannot,
however, draft arbitration provisions that require a plaintiff to waive his
right to bring any representative PAGA claim in any forum, arbitral or
judicial.  
 
The Court finds the first provision
of the waiver in this case is substantially the same as the first provision
that defeated the agreement in DeMarinis. 
The first provision in this case states, “The Parties expressly intend
and agree that each will forego pursuing any covered Claim on a class,
collective, or representative basis and will not assert class, collective or
representative action claims against the other in arbitration or otherwise.”  
 
The Court finds, however, that the
agreement in this case is different from the agreement in DeMarinis for two
reasons.  First, the second paragraph of
the waiver provision in this case provides, “This waiver does not apply to
representative actions that cannot be waived as a matter of law (such as the
California Private Attorneys General act or public injunctive relief under
California Business and Professions Code § 17203). Such claims must proceed in
the applicable state or federal court.” 
Thus, the agreement carves out PAGA claims from the waiver provision and
permits a plaintiff to bring those claims. 
 
 
Additionally, the Court finds the second
prong of the test in DeMarinis is not met here. 
As noted above, the DeMarinis Court went on to hold that the waiver
provision was fatal to the motion to compel arbitration because of the
non-severability clause found in the agreement. 
The Court reviewed the parties’ agreement in the instant case, and notes
that it contains the following clause:
CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY: lf
any provision of this Agreement is adjudged to be void or otherwise
unenforceable, in whole or in part, such adjudication shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of the Agreement. The parties expressly agree that
the remainder of the Agreement should be enforced as written with the excision
of the invalid provision only.
 
Thus, to the extent there is a
waiver of the right to bring a PAGA claim in “any forum,” there is no non-severability
provision, and that waiver could be carved out of the agreement.  
 
The Court therefore finds both the
parties’ agreement and the severability clause require a conclusion that Plaintiff
is permitted, under the agreement, to bring a representative PAGA action.  The Court holds that, pursuant to Adolph,
Plaintiff must submit his individual claims to binding arbitration, and the
representative claims must be stayed pending resolution of the individual
claims.  
 
d.     Conclusion
The motion to compel arbitration is
granted in part.  Plaintiff is ordered to
submit his individual claims to arbitration. 
The representative claims are stayed pending the resolution of binding
arbitration of the individual claims.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to compel arbitration.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and CMC.