 Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION
Moving Party:               Defendant, 1801-1809 Willow LLC
Opposing Party:           Plaintiff, SEJ Properties, L.P.
Notice:                         OK
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
Moving Party:               Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and
Sharon L. Sharp
Opposing Party:           Plaintiff, SEJ Properties, L.P.
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     22LBCV00049
On 2/01/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22LBCV00049 against Defendants, 1801-1899 Willow, LLC (“Willow”) and Alma
D. Barnes for specific performance and related claims arising out of Defendants’
alleged refusal to close escrow on Plaintiff’s purchase of a commercial
property.
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint
remains the operative complaint in the action. 
It includes cause of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and declaratory
relief.  
 
Additionally, on 11/06/23, Willow filed
a cross-complaint against SEJ for intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent inducement,
recission, breach of contract, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.
 
2.     22SMCV00217
On 2/16/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22SMCV00217 against Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp for
breach of fiduciary duty and related claims arising out of Defendants’ refusal
to release the funds that were deposited into the escrow account in connection with
the transaction at issue in 22LBCV00049. 
This action includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
negligence, breach of written escrow instructions, conversion, declaratory
relief, and injunctive relief.  
 
3.     23LBCV00258,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. Muselli & Company, Inc.
In this action, Willow has sued its
agent, Muselli & Company, contending it learned of pertinent information
during the transaction but failed to disclose that information to Willow.  The complaint includes causes of action for
professional negligence, breach of contract, and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
4.     23LBCV01460,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. First American Title Ins Co
In this case, Willow alleges First
American improperly contacted SEJ and provided it information it was not entitled
to have.  This case includes causes of
action for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
5.     Consolidation
On 12/14/23, the Court consolidated
the two above actions for all purposes.  
 
6.     Motion
for Summary Adjudication
a.    
Relief Sought
Willow moves for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action, specific
performance and breach of contract.  
 
b.     Standard
on Summary Adjudication
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th
574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense
thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's
initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the
plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or
admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for
admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential
element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202
Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words,
a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an
element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually
devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably
inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64,
83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has discharged
its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with
any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a
particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by
producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action.  (Id.
at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary
judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and
those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary
judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
c.    
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff purports to object to
various facts in Defendant’s separate statement.  This is improper per CRC 3.1354(b), and the
Court declines to rule on the purported objections.
 
Defendant filed objections to the
Declarations of Shokrian and Park, both of which were submitted with the opposition.  The objections to the Shokrian Declaration
are overruled.  The objections to the Park
Declaration are also overruled.  
 
d.     Issues
Presented
Willow contends it made a demand,
on 10/17/21, that SEJ close escrow within five business days (on or before
10/25/21).  It contends it was entitled
to make this demand per ¶8.8 of the parties’ agreement, and SEJ agreed to the
demand.  It contends SEJ, through its own
fault and without any excuse, failed to close escrow on or before
10/25/21.  It therefore concludes SEJ has
no right to proceed on its causes of action for specific performance and/or
breach of contract.  
 
SEJ, in opposition, contends Willow
delayed from January of 2021 until October of 2021 in providing requested
estoppel certificates.  SEJ contends it
fully performed under the parties’ agreement, because (a) it deposited all
funds necessary to close escrow, (b) it submitted all documents by the 10/25/21
deadline, and (c) the deadline was the end of October.  It contends, in the event the Court is
otherwise inclined to grant the motion, that the hearing must be continued so SEJ
can learn of facts showing Willow had not performed all of its duties in
connection with the agreement, such that it was not able to legally made the escrow
closing demand.  
 
Willow, in reply, contends the undisputed
facts show escrow was to close by 10/25/21, due solely to SEJ’s acts, it did
not, and there are no additional facts that could possibly save the subject
causes of action.  It therefore asks the
Court to grant summary adjudication without continuing the hearing on the motion.  
 
e.    
Default Under the Agreement
¶8.8 of the parties’ agreement
permitted any party not in default under the agreement to demand the other party
close escrow within eight days.  Willow
contends it made such demand on 10/17/21, which meant escrow had to close by
10/25/21.  SEJ contends ¶8.8 could not be
triggered because Willow was in default under the parties’ agreement.  The relevant fact in the separate statement
is fact 8.  SEJ provides evidence that Willow
did not provide clean estoppel certificates by 1/28/21, as required, for escrow
to close on the original February 2021 closing date.  
 
SEJ, however, admits that fact 9 is
undisputed.  Fact 9 states that, on
10/21/21, the parties executed amended escrow instructions that provided all
contingencies had been satisfied and removed. 
SEJ’s additional fact 44 states that, on 10/17/21, Willow provided the
necessary tenant estoppel certificates that had been requested since January of
that year.  
 
It is unclear why failure to
provide estoppel certificates in January of February of 2021 is relevant to the
analysis.  ¶8.8 permits a party who is
not currently in default under the agreement to demand close of escrow.  Both parties agree that the estoppel
certificates were provided on 10/17/21, and that all contingencies to close
were satisfied.  SEJ therefore failed to
raise a triable issue of material fact concerning whether Willow was in default
under the parties’ agreement when it demanded close of escrow.  The Court notes that Willow spends
substantial time in the opposition detailing facts that occurred prior to
October of 2021, but it is unclear what relevance any of those facts has to the
issue posed by way of the motion, which is whether Willow properly demanded close
of escrow on 10/17/21, and whether Willow took all necessary steps to close
escrow within five business days thereafter. 

 
f.      10/25/21
The next issue is whether SEJ took
all necessary steps to close escrow by 10/25/21.  SEJ makes two arguments in this regard.  First, it contends it deposited all funds required
per the parties’ agreement.  Second, it
contends it submitted all required documents by the 10/25/21 deadline.  
 
As Willow correctly notes in reply,
depositing funds is only one requirement to close escrow.  Thus, depositing funds, by itself, does not satisfy
the requirement to close escrow by 10/25/21. 
The real issue is whether SEJ complied with its obligation to submit all
required documents by the deadline.
 
SEJ provides evidence that it
submitted all documents required to close escrow on 10/25/21.  The documents, however, were submitted at
4:36 p.m., and the recorder’s office closed at 4:30 p.m.  SEJ argues Willow and the escrow company were
“changing the deadline to submit documents,” and SEJ provides evidence that the
escrow company made numerous demands that SEJ provide documents at times
certain, such as 10/22 by close of day, 10/23 as soon as possible, and 10/25 by
seven a.m.  None of these emails moves the
goalpost or are unusual in any way.  These
are simply emails from the escrow reminding SEJ that the company is not
magical, and that if documents are not submitted in advance of the deadline,
there will be no way to process them to close by the deadline.  
 
SEJ admits it did not comply with any
of the requests from the escrow company, and it did not even submit the documents
until after the recorder’s office closed on the date set for closing.  There are, therefore, no triable issues of
material fact concerning whether SEJ took all necessary steps to close escrow on
10/25/21.  
 
g.     10/30/21
SEJ also argues Willow agreed to
close escrow by 10/30/21, and therefore Willow cannot bind SEJ to the 10/25/21
closing date.  SEJ points to its
additional fact 50, as well as the Shokrian Declaration, ¶19, and Exhibit L attached
thereto, to establish escrow only needed to close by the end of October to satisfy
Willow’s demand.  The Court has reviewed
Exhibit L, which is a series of emails from SEJ’s attorney, Afred Chang, to
Willow, demanding close of escrow by the end of the month.  Nothing in those emails raises a triable
issue of material fact concerning whether Willow agreed to close by the end of
the month, rather than the 10/25/21 deadline per the demand.  
 
h.     Continuance
SEJ’s final argument is that, in
the event the Court is otherwise inclined to grant summary adjudication, the
Court should continue the hearing to permit SEJ to conduct further discovery to
defeat the motion.  
 
CCP §437c(h) governs requests for
continuance of hearings on motions for summary judgment.  It provides, “If it appears from the
affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion
to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time
on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.”
 
The opposing party's declaration in
support of a motion to continue the hearing should show the following:
• Facts establishing a likelihood
that controverting evidence may exist and why the information sought is
essential to opposing the motion;
• The specific reasons why such
evidence cannot be presented at the present time;
• An estimate of the time necessary
to obtain such evidence; and
• The specific steps or procedures
the opposing party intends to utilize to obtain such evidence. 
Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 420.
 
SEJ argues that Willow is taking
the position, in this litigation, that it fulfilled all of its legal
obligations to SEJ such that escrow was required to close on 10/25/21, but is
taking the position in litigation with its broker and the title company that
those entities committed malpractice that precluded it from fulfilling all of
its legal obligations to SEJ in connection with the escrow.  While not clearly articulated, it appears SEJ
is contending that facts may exist to show Willow was in default on the parties’
agreement when it demanded escrow close, such that it was not entitled, under
the parties' agreement, to demand SEJ close escrow.   
 
SEJ admits, however, fact 9, which
states that the parties executed amended escrow instructions providing all
contingencies had been removed.  It is
not clear what SEJ thinks it will discover in terms of a breach running between
Willow and SEJ that would support a conclusion that Willow was in default under
the parties’ agreement when it demanded escrow close.  
 
The Court has reviewed the
complaint in 23LBCV00258.  In that case,
Willow alleges its real estate agent, Muselli, falsely represented to SEJ that
Willow would accept a reduced purchase price. 
SEJ alleges Muselli’s false representation resulted in SEJ attempting to
go forward with the transaction at the reduced purchase price, which harmed
Willow because the price was not fair market value.  Willow alleges Muselli’s representations
caused all of the litigation currently looming between the parties, because
Willow would never have agreed to the reduced purchase price.  Nothing in these allegations, even if proven,
would serve the establish Willow was in breach of the parties’ agreement at the
time it demanded close of escrow.  The allegations
may show a desire not to have escrow close, but they do not show breach.
 
The Court has also reviewed the
complaint in 23LBCV01460.  In that case,
Willow alleges it and SEJ agreed to a settlement of their dispute, which settlement
would require SEJ to remove the lis pendens from the subject property.  Willow alleges the title company was
instructed not to tell SEJ that another sale was pending between Willow and a
third party, because Willow knew SEJ would not finalize the settlement if it
knew about the sale.  The title company
breached its duty to Willow, told SEJ of the pending sale, and ruined the settlement.  Once again, nothing in these allegations,
even if proven, would have anything to do with whether Willow was in default
under the parties’ agreement at the time it demanded close of escrow.
 
SEJ failed to show any need to
conduct discovery in light of the two additional lawsuits.  The request for a continuance is therefore denied.
 
g.         Conclusion
Willow met its moving burden to
show it properly demanded SEJ close escrow by 10/25/21.  SEJ failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact concerning Willow’s default under the agreement or SEJ’s compliance
with the agreement.  SEJ also failed to show
any grounds for a continuance of the hearing on the motion.  The motion for summary adjudication of the
first and second causes of action for breach of contract and specific
performance is therefore granted.
 
3.         Motion for Summary Judgment (Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L.
Sharp)
a.         Allegations of Complaint
Plaintiff’s complaint against
Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp (referred to in this motion collectively
as “Escrow”) includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence,
breach of written escrow instructions, conversion, declaratory relief, and
injunctive relief.  
 
b.         Parties’ Positions
Escrow contends it did not breach
any escrow instructions, and instead complied with all instructions regarding
close of escrow and handling of funds on deposit.  It contends the duty-based causes of action
fail because it did not breach any duty. 
It contends the conversion cause of action fails because it was
entitled, as a matter of law, to retain the deposited money unless and until
all parties agreed to a resolution of the dispute.  It contends the declaratory and injunctive
relief causes of action rise and fall with the duty-based causes of action.  
 
SEJ opposes the motion.  It argues Escrow has not submitted admissible
evidence in support of its motion.  It argues
Escrow breached its duties by failing to close escrow despite the fact that SEJ
and Willow timely submitted all documents and funds required to close escrow.  It argues Escrow breached its duties by
refusing to return purchase funds, claiming it needed joint instructions from
the parties, and also failed to timely interplead the funds, waiting two years to
do so.  
 
c.         Evidentiary Objections
SEJ filed objections with its
opposition papers.  The Court will
discuss the objections in the course of its analysis, below.  Escrow submitted objections with its reply
papers.  Escrow’s objections are on the
ground of relevance.  The Court has
considered the evidence submitted with the opposition, and will discuss its
relevance or lack of relevance in the ruling, below.
 
d.         Duty-Based Causes of Action
The first, second, and third causes
of action all allege Escrow breached its duties in connection with the close of
escrow.  The declaratory and injunctive
relief causes of action rise and fall with the first through third causes of
action.  
 
Escrow argues the undisputed facts
show it did not breach any duty in connection with the close of escrow.  SEJ, in opposition to the motion, argues
Escrow did not meet its moving burden because it did not submit admissible evidence
to support its motion.  The crux of SEJ’s
argument is that Escrow’s attorney purported to authenticate the documents that
support the motion, but Escrow’s attorney has no personal knowledge of any of
the documents and cannot authenticate them. 
SEJ is technically correct.  However,
the Court is considering the documents for several reasons.  First, with its reply papers, Escrow’s
attorney declares that the documents were obtained from SEJ during discovery.  Second, SEJ relies on many of the same
documents in opposition to the motion.  Third,
the documents are the same documents that were properly authenticated and
considered in connection with Willow’s motion. 
Fourth, SEJ does not meaningfully dispute the fact that the documents
are what they purport to be.  Fifth,
refusing to consider the documents would result in a ruling denying this motion
but granting Willow’s motion on the same grounds, which would be an absurdity.  The Court therefore finds Escrow met its
burden to show it did not breach any duty to SEJ by failing to close escrow.
 
SEJ failed to raise a triable issue
of material fact concerning any breach.  This
is so for the reasons set forth above in connection with Willow’s motion, and
the analysis will not be repeated at this time. 
Summary adjudication is appropriate as to the duty-based causes of
action.  The Court notes that any evidence
of what occurred prior to 10/17/21 is not relevant for the reasons detailed in
connection with the Willow ruling above, and therefore the objections to those documents
are sustained.  
 
e.         Conversion
SEJ alleges Escrow committed
conversion by failing to release SEJ’s funds to SEJ over the course of the time
since escrow failed to close to date.  Escrow,
in its moving papers, establishes that 10 CCR 1738(a) permits an escrow service
to release funds if and only if all parties to the escrow agree to the terms of
the release of the funds.  SEJ argues, in
opposition to the motion, that Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
412 holds that improper retention of funds in escrow constitutes
conversion.  However, as SEJ itself
concedes, and as Escrow points out in reply, Greif held that the BUYER was
guilty of conversion for delay in connection with signing escrow documents.  Nothing in Greif suggests that an escrow
agent can legally disburse funds without the parties’ joint agreement or a
court order.  
 
SEJ also suggests, without citation,
that Escrow committed conversion by waiting a year and a half to interplead the
funds.  SEJ failed to show how it was
harmed by any such delay.  The funds
remain interpled to date, because the underlying dispute has still not been
resolved.  Thus, even if Escrow had
interpled the funds on day one, SEJ would not currently have possession of the
funds.  
 
Summary adjudication of the conversion
cause of action is therefore also appropriate. 
Additionally, to the extent the duty-based causes of action allege
Escrow wrongly held the subject funds, summary adjudication of those causes of
action on this theory is also appropriate. 

 
f.          Conclusion
The Court finds Escrow met its
burden to show it did not breach any duty in connection with the failure to close
escrow or in connection with the ongoing retention of the escrow funds (and
ultimate interpleader of the funds).  The
Court finds SEJ failed to submit relevant evidence to show breach.  The motion for summary judgment is therefore
granted.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.DEMURRER
Moving Party:               Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant,
1801-1809 Willow LLC
Opposing Party:           None filed
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     22LBCV00049
On 2/01/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22LBCV00049 against Defendants, 1801-1899 Willow, LLC (“Willow”) and Alma
D. Barnes for specific performance and related claims arising out of Defendants’
alleged refusal to close escrow on Plaintiff’s purchase of a commercial
property.
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint
remains the operative complaint in the action. 
It includes cause of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and declaratory relief.  
 
Additionally, on 11/06/23, Willow filed
a cross-complaint against SEJ for intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent inducement,
recission, breach of contract, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.
 
2.     22SMCV00217
On 2/16/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22SMCV00217 against Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp for
breach of fiduciary duty and related claims arising out of Defendants’ refusal to
release the funds that were deposited into the escrow account in connection with
the transaction at issue in 22LBCV00049. 
This action includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
negligence, breach of written escrow instructions, conversion, declaratory
relief, and injunctive relief.  
 
3.     23LBCV00258,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. Muselli & Company, Inc.
In this action, Willow has sued its
agent, Muselli & Company, contending it learned of pertinent information
during the transaction but failed to disclose that information to Willow.  The complaint includes causes of action for
professional negligence, breach of contract, and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
On 5/22/23, Muselli & Company,
Inc., Vincent Cesare Muselli, and Evan Daniel Pozarny (collectively referred to
as “Muselli” in this ruling) filed a cross-complaint in 23LBCV00258 against
Willow for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.  
 
4.     23LBCV01460,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. First American Title Ins Co
In this case, Willow alleges First
American improperly contacted SEJ and provided it information it was not entitled
to have.  This case includes causes of
action for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
5.     Consolidation
On 12/14/23, the Court consolidated
the two above actions for all purposes.  
 
6.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Willow’s attorney declares he sent
a meet and confer letter, and the parties followed up with a phone call but
were unable to resolve the issues.  Counsel
also declares the parties participated in mediation on 7/27/23, but resolved
neither the case nor the issues presented by way of the demurrer.  
 
c.     Opposition
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 1/26/24.  
 
Notably, the demurrer was
originally filed under case no. 23LBCV00258 on 8/10/23.  The case was then consolidated with
22LBCV00049 on 12/14/23.  The Court’s
order made clear that all hearing dates in all cases other than 22LBCV00049
were advanced and taken off calendar, and that it was setting a hearing date on
the demurrer in 23LBCV00258 for 2/08/24. 
The moving party, Willow, was ordered to give notice.  On 12/15/23, Willow filed a notice of
ruling.  The notice of ruling includes a
statement that the demurrer will be heard on 2/08/24, and Willow also attached
a copy of the Court’s full order to the notice of ruling.  The notice of ruling includes proof of
service on Craig J. Englander, the attorney for Muselli and related
parties.  
 
Muselli has not filed any
opposition papers.  The Court has reviewed
the online case files for both 23LBCV00258 and also 22LBCV00049, and finds that
no opposition papers have been filed in either case.  The Court will therefore rule on the demurrer
without the benefit of opposition.  
 
d.     Analysis
Willow establishes, in its
demurrer, that its contract with Muselli required it to pay a commission to
Muselli if and only if the subject property was sold.  Willow also establishes, per both Muselli’s cross-complaint
and the entirety of these consolidated actions, that the subject property was
never sold.  Willow therefore establishes
the cross-complaint for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, which seeks a finding that Willow breached the
parties’ contract by failing to pay a commission, is defective as a matter of
law, as a condition precedent to the obligation to pay a commission never
occurred.  
 
The demurrer is sustained.  In light of the lack of opposition, leave to
amend is denied.  
 
Willow is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.