 Case Number:  22LBCV00355    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Chelsey
Binz filed this action against Defendants, LBMMC, et al. for damages arising
out of complications that arose during her labor and delivery.  The complications ultimately caused damage to
her child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever.   
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint includes causes of action for medical negligence, corporate hospital
liability, concealment, and NIED.  The
first and fourth causes of action are pled against Defendants, Drs. Okuyemi and
Milone.  
 
2.    
9/12/23
Hearing on Motion for Summary Judgment
The Court heard Drs. Okuyemi and
Milone’s summary judgment motion on 9/12/23. 
Defendants moved for summary judgment on two grounds.  First, they contended the Good Samaritan defense
applied and acted as a complete defense to all claims pled against them.  Second, they contended they complied with the
standard of care and nothing they did caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s
damages.  
 
Plaintiff opposed the motion, but
focused only on the second argument.  Indeed,
her opposition was entirely silent as to the first argument.  The Court issued a tentative ruling granting
the motion on the first asserted ground and declining to consider or rule on the
second asserted ground.  Plaintiff, at oral
argument, attempted to present authorities and contentions not raised in her opposition
papers.  The Court did not permit
Plaintiff to expand her opposition beyond the assertions made in her papers, and
ultimately adopted its tentative ruling and granted the motion.  
 
3.    
Motion for New Trial
The Court heard
Plaintiff’s motion for new trial concerning the above summary judgment motion
on 11/28/23.  At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Court took the matter under submission. 
On 12/12/23, the Court issued its final ruling on the motion.  The Court’s final ruling contained detailed
analysis, and ultimately concluded:
The Court finds it
erred in its original ruling and should not have granted the motion based on
the Good Samaritan defense.  The Court
has therefore revisited the original motion and finds there are triable issues
of material fact concerning breach of the standard of care, such that the
motion must be denied.  
 
The parties are
ordered to meet and confer to determine whether to (a) submit on this ruling without
further hearing, or (b) request oral argument to address the proposed ruling
above.  The parties must contact the Judicial
Assistant once they determine which option they choose.  If the parties wish to have argument, they
must agree on a mutually acceptable date for argument and provide that date to the
Judicial Assistant.  The Court asks the parties
to look at the online calendar in eCourt to ensure the agreed-upon date is not
a date that the courtroom is dark.  The Court
will hear oral argument on any date that the courtroom is not dark.  If the parties wish to submit without argument,
they must so inform the Judicial Assistant, who will issue this ruling as the final
ruling on the motion for new trial and motion for summary judgment.  
 
The parties did
not choose to have oral argument on the issues presented, and therefore the
above order became the final order of the Court.  
 
4.    
Motion
to Vacate Order
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendants move to
vacate the Court’s order granting a new trial. 
They contend the Court entered the order after the statutory time to do
so had expired, rendering the Court without jurisdiction to grant the order and
the order itself void.  
 
Plaintiff opposes
the motion.  She argues (a) the Court
acted properly in reconsidering its prior order, which it can do at any time,
(b) the Court acted on its inherent power, which it is free to do, (c)
Defendants effectively conceded the Court’s order by not requesting oral
argument on the order, and (d) the Court should make an exception to any rigid
requirement that may otherwise preclude the order under the circumstances of
the case.  
 
Defendants, in reply,
contend reconsideration, whether on motion or the Court’s inherent power, is no
longer permissible once judgment is entered. 
They contend their failure to request argument is immaterial, as the
time to rule on the motion had already run and the motion had been deemed
denied by operation of law.  They contend
there is no “exception” to the rule, and the order must be vacated.
 
b.    
Analysis
The parties agree
that CCP §660(c) contains a 75-day limit on the Court’s power to grant a new
trial after notice of entry of judgment is mailed, and the motion is deemed
denied as a matter of course if the 75-day period expires without a ruling.  The parties also agree that the 75-day notice
period expired on between 11/28/23 (the date of the hearing) and 12/15/23 (the
date of the final order granting the motion for new trial).  Notably, the time period is jurisdictional.  Dakota Payphone, LLC v. Alcatraz (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 493, 498.
 
Plaintiffs argue
the Court had the power, either on motion or on its own, to reconsider the
ruling at any time.  However, as
Defendants correctly note in reply, the power to reconsider rulings expires
upon entry of judgment.  See APRI Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 176, 181.  Pursuant to Ramon v. Aerospace Corp. (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1237-1238, once judgment is entered, the only
appropriate motion is a motion for new trial. 
Notably, that is the motion Plaintiffs herein correctly filed.  They failed, however, to secure a ruling
prior to the expiration of the 75-day period, and their motion was therefore deemed
denied by operation of law.  
 
Plaintiffs next argue
Defendants conceded the relief by failing to request argument.  This is clearly not the case.  It appears, on the contrary, that Defendants
did not seek argument because they believed the motion had already been denied by
operation of law and there was nothing to seek argument about.
 
Plaintiffs’ final
argument is that the events at issue were beyond their control and the Court
should therefore not apply the standard. 
They cite Bennet v. Bennet Cement Contractors, Inc. (1981) 125
Cal.App.3d 673, 676, wherein the Court held that the mandatory statute
requiring trial within five years after commencement of the action was not
truly mandatory because of an exception when it is impossible, impracticable,
or futile to bring the case to trial timely. 
This argument fails for a variety of reasons.  First, as noted above, §660’s time limit is
jurisdictional in nature.  Second, CCP §583.360(b),
the mandatory dismissal statute, states that the time limit is mandatory and
only subject to exception as permitted by statute; §583.340(c) specifically creates
an exception if going to trial was impossible, impracticable, or futile.  No such statutory exceptions apply here.  Third, Plaintiffs could, and should, have
insisted on a ruling on 11/28/23.  They could,
and should, have informed the Court of the expiration date of the 75-day
period, and they could, and should, have insisted on a ruling prior to that
time.  They failed to do so, and the time
to grant the motion expired.  
 
The motion to
vacate the new trial order is granted.  The
Corut finds the order was void by operation of law, such that it must be vacated.  CCP §473(d). 

 
Moving Defendants
are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   