 Case Number:  24VECV03507    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



  
Brandon Hung,
 
         v.
 
Claude’s Auto Service Center, et
  al.
 


 Case No.: 
  24VECV03507
 
 TENTATIVE RE Demurrer 
 with Motion to Strike
 



 
Tentative Ruling
 
(1) Overrule demurrer; (2) Deny motion to strike.

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On or about August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Brandon
Hung (“Plaintiff”) was a patron at 15326 Roscoe Blvd., Panorama City, CA 91402
(the “Subject Premises”). (First Amended Complaint “FAC” ¶¶ 7-8.)
“Plaintiff had previously had work done on his vehicle and returned to the
[S]ubject [P]remises with questions and/or concerns with the previously
completed work.” (FAC ¶ 8.) Defendant Fredrick Petrosian attacked Plaintiff,
“stabbing Plaintiff’s arm with a sharp object.” (FAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff suffered
injuries from the assault. (FAC ¶ 9.) 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants Claude’s Auto Repair Service, SBC Investment, Fredrick
Petrosian, and Does 1 to 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) assault; (2)
battery; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) negligence; and
(5) negligent hiring, supervision and retention. 
On October 21, 2024, Defendants Claude’s Auto
Repair Service and Fredrick Petrosian filed a demurrer with motion to strike.
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint against Defendants Claude’s Auto Service Center, SBC
Investment, Fredrick Petrosian, and Does 1 to 100, alleging causes of action
for: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; and (4) negligence.
On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment
to the complaint, stating Defendant Claude’s Auto Repair Service’s true name is
Claude’s Auto Service Center. 
On December 4, 2024, Defendants Claude’s Auto
Service Center and Fredrick Petrosian (“Defendants”) filed a demurrer with
motion to strike. On December 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions. On January
6, 2025, Defendants filed replies.
II.            
PLAINTIFF’S
OBJECTIONS TO DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiff submits objections to Defendants’
request for judicial notice. Although Defendants submitted a request for
judicial notice with their first demurrer, Defendants have not submitted a
request for judicial notice with the present demurrer. Accordingly, this court
does not consider Plaintiff’s objections.
III.          
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS
 

Timeliness

“A person against
whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., §¿430.40(a).)¿Per California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed
within 30 days after service of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
412.20(a)(3).)¿¿¿
 
Per California Code
of Civil Procedure section¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should
be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions
thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and
replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the
set hearing.
 
Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint on
November 6, 2024. Defendants filed the demurrer with motion to strike on
December 4, 2024, which is within thirty days of November 6, 2024.
 
The demurrer with motion to strike, oppositions,
and replies were also timely filed under section 1005.
 

Meet
     and Confer

 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” before
the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised
in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5,
subdivision (a) also requires parties to meet and confer before filing a motion
to strike. 
 
 
Defendants’ counsel submits declarations stating
Defendants’ counsel called Plaintiff’s counsel and left a message regarding
Defendants’ intent to file a demurrer and motion to strike. (Singh Motion to
Strike Declaration ¶ 3; Singh Demurrer Declaration ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel
did not return the call. (Singh Motion to Strike Declaration ¶ 4; Singh
Demurrer Declaration ¶ 4.) Defendants’ counsel also emailed Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Singh Motion to Strike Declaration ¶ 5; Singh Demurrer Declaration ¶
5.) Plaintiff’s counsel “acknowledged receipt” of the email but did not call
Defendants’ counsel back. (Singh Motion to Strike Declaration ¶ 6; Singh
Demurrer Declaration ¶ 6.)
 
This court finds that Defendants satisfied the
meet and confer requirements.
 
IV.          
DEMURRER
 

Legal
     Standard

 
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
A party may demur to a cross-complaint
because the cross-complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)¿ A party may also demur
because “[t]he pleading is uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “’[U]ncertain’ includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10(f).)  
¿ 
Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only
to “set forth in his complaint the essential facts of his case with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant of the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Elder
v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)¿ 
 

Discussion

 

Assault

 
Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to allege fact
sufficient to state a cause of action for assault and that the pleading is
uncertain. (Demurrer p. 2.)
 
The elements of an assault cause of action are: “(1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a
harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.” (So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Fredrick Petrosian “intentionally
acted with the intent to cause harmful contact approached Plaintiff and
violently assaulted hi[m] at the [S]ubject [P]remises.” (FAC ¶ 13.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendant Petrosian
“aggressively intentionally approached the Plaintiff, leaning forward and
getting within inches of his person, and in a loud bellicose manner and
intentionally threatened to touch and/or grab Plaintiff in a harmful manner[.]”
(FAC ¶ 15.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Petrosian acted with intent to
cause harmful or offensive contact or threatened to touch Plaintiff in a
harmful or offensive manner. 
 
Plaintiff also alleges that “it reasonably appeared that Defendant
[Petrosian] was about to carry out the threat.” (FAC ¶ 15.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff
reasonably believed Defendant was about to carry out the threat.
 
Plaintiff alleges “Plaintiff did not consent to Defendant [Petrosian’s]
conduct as Plaintiff reasonably believed that he was about to be touched in a
harmful or offensive manner by Defendant [Petrosian].” (FAC ¶ 16.) Thus,
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff did not consent to Defendant’s conduct.
 
Plaintiff alleges that “As a result of Defendant [Petrosian’s] conduct
the Plaintiff was directly physically and psychologically damaged, incurred
medical bills, sustained disability and had to retain an attorney and has
incurred legal costs in connection therewith in order to prosecute this
action.” (FAC ¶ 17.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff was harmed.
 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that “As a result of Defendant [Petrosian’s]
conduct the Plaintiff was directly physically and psychologically damaged,
incurred medical bills, sustained disability and had to retain an attorney and
has incurred legal costs in connection therewith in order to prosecute this
action” and Defendant Petrosian’s “threatening and aggressive behavior was a
substantial factor in Plaintiff’s fear for Plaintiff’s reasonable physical
person and his sense of personal dignity.” (FAC ¶¶ 17-18.) Thus, Plaintiff
alleges Plaintiff was harmed and Defendant Petrosian’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
Defendants argue that the allegations referenced above are insufficient
because they are conclusory. (Demurrer p. 8.) As a general matter, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges
ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles, supra,
42 Cal.4th at p. 550.)¿The allegations discussed above are sufficient to meet
this standard.
 
Defendants also argue the assault cause of action
is uncertain. (Demurrer p. 2.) The first amended complaint is sufficiently
detailed to acquaint Defendants with the nature, source, and extent of
Plaintiff’s cause of action. (See FAC ¶¶ 12-19.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s assault cause of
action is not uncertain. 
 
Thus, this court overrules the demurrer on the
ground the first amended complaint fails to sufficiently state a cause of
action for assault.
 

Battery

 
Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to allege fact
sufficient to state a cause of action for battery and that the pleading is
uncertain. (Demurrer p. 2.)
 
The elements of a battery cause of action are: “(1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to
be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been
offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p.
669.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “On or about August 29, 2022 . . . Defendant
[Petrosian] intentionally and with the intent to harm, forcefully and
physically attacked Plaintiff, stabbing him with a sharp object; Defendant
[Petrosian] physically attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that
Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.” (FAC ¶ 21.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Petrosian
touched Plaintiff, or caused Plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm
or offend Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff also alleges that “Plaintiff did not consent to Defendants’
conduct of being stabbed by a sharp object.” (FAC ¶ 22.) Thus, Plaintiff
alleges Plaintiff did not consent to the touching.
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant [Petrosian] physically attacked and
assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and
damages” and “As a result of Defendant [Petrosian’s] conduct, the Plaintiff was
physically and psychologically damaged, incurred medical bills, sustained
disability and had to retain an attorney and has incurred legal costs in
connection therewith in order to prosecute this action.” (FAC ¶¶ 21, 23.) Thus,
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff was harmed by Defendant Petrosian’s conduct. 
 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that “Reasonable persons in Plaintiff’s
situation would have been offended by the manner in which Defendant [Petrosian]
touched Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 24.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges a reasonable person in
Plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.
 
Defendants argue the allegations referenced above are insufficient
because they are conclusory, “generalized and devoid of statements or context”,
and “Plaintiff neglects to specify what ‘object’ he is referring to.” (Demurrer
pp. 10-11.) Defendant cites no authority for the argument Plaintiff must allege
statements, context, or what “object” Plaintiff is referring to. Moreover, as a
general matter, a “complaint ordinarily is
sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles, supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 550.)¿The allegations
discussed above are sufficient to meet this standard.
 
Defendants also argue the battery cause of action
is uncertain. (Demurrer p. 2.) The first amended complaint is sufficiently
detailed to acquaint Defendants with the nature, source, and extent of
Plaintiff’s cause of action. (See FAC ¶¶ 20-25.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s battery cause of
action is not uncertain. 
 
Thus, this court overrules the demurrer on the
ground the first amended complaint fails to sufficiently state a cause of
action for battery.
 

Intentional
     Infliction of Emotional Distress

 
Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to allege fact
sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress and that the pleading is uncertain. (Demurrer p. 3.)
 
¿“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) the defendant engages in
extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent to cause, or with reckless
disregard for the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff
suffers extreme or severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's extreme
and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the plaintiff's
extreme or severe emotional distress.” (So v. Shin, supra, 212
Cal.App.4th at p. 671.)  To be outrageous, the conduct must be “so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” (Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop
Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant [Petrosian]
acted with the intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress when Defendant [Petrosian] physically attacked and
assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and
damages” and “Defendant [Petrosian’s] conduct as set forth above was so
outrageous as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated by a civilized
community.” (FAC ¶¶ 27-28.) At the demurrer stage, this court cannot conclude
that, as a matter of law, alleging a defendant stabbed a plaintiff is
insufficient to allege the defendant’s behavior was extreme and outrageous.
Accordingly, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendant engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct with the intent to cause, or with reckless disregard for the
probability of causing, extreme emotional distress.
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff has suffered
severe and extreme emotional distress including, but not limited to, highly
unpleasant mental suffering and anguish that entails such intense, enduring and
nontrivial emotional distress that no reasonable person in a civilized society
would be expected to endure.” (FAC ¶ 29.) 
Thus, Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional
distress.
 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that “As a result of
Defendant [Petrosian’s] socially unacceptable conduct set forth above the
Plaintiff has suffered severe and extreme emotional distress” and “Defendant
[Petrosian’s] outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of
Plaintiff’s emotional distress.” (FAC ¶¶ 29-30.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant’s conduct was the actual and proximate cause of Plaintiff’s extreme
or severe emotional distress.
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s allegations are
conclusory, Plaintiff “fails to state the context for the incident, as recited
in the statement of facts” and “Plaintiff does not indicate statements made by
himself or Defendant Petrosian or identify specific actions taken but alleges
generalities to identify broad corners of conduct.” (Demurrer p. 12.) The
allegations referenced above are sufficiently specific to allege a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
 
Defendants also argue the intentional infliction
of emotional distress cause of action is uncertain. (Demurrer p. 3.) The first
amended complaint is sufficiently detailed to acquaint Defendants with the
nature, source, and extent of Plaintiff’s cause of action. (See FAC ¶¶
26-31.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action is not uncertain.
 
Thus, this court overrules the demurrer on the
ground the first amended complaint fails to sufficiently state a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 

Negligence

 
Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to allege fact
sufficient to state a cause of action for negligence and that the pleading is
uncertain. (Demurrer p. 3.)
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are:
(1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such legal duty; and (3) the
breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Ladd v.
County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-918.)
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants, and each of them,
had an affirmative legal duty to use due care for the protection of Plaintiff
against unreasonable risk of harm” and “Defendants, and each of them, formed a special
relationship between the employees/owners and subject premises resulting in the
affirmative duty on the employees/owners to take all reasonable steps to
protect the occupants of the subject premises.” (FAC ¶¶
33-34.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendant Claude’s Auto Service Center, SBC
Investment, and Does 1 to 100 “had a duty to control Defendant [Petrosian] and
protect Plaintiff from physical and mental harm.”  (FAC ¶ 35.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges
Defendants had a legal duty to use care.
Plaintiff also alleges “Defendants, and each of
them, breached their duty of care for the protection of Plaintiff when
Defendant [Petrosian] in the presence of others, aggressively approached
Plaintiff on the [S]ubject [P]remises, leaned forward and getting within inches
of his person, and in a loud bellicose manner threatened to touch and/or grab
Plaintiff in a harmful manner such that it reasonably appeared that Defendant
[Petrosian] was about to carry out the threat; Defendant [Petrosian] physically
attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered
injuries and damages due to the stabbing by the sharp object.” (FAC ¶ 36.)
Thus, Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached their legal duty of care.
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that “As a direct
result of the breach of their affirmative duty to protect Plaintiff from
physical or psychological injury while at the subject premises, the malfeasance
and/or nonfeasance of Defendants, and each of them, was the proximate or legal
cause of Plaintiff’s injuries”, “The conduct of Defendants, and each of them,
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm” and that Plaintiff
suffered harm because of Defendant’s conduct. (FAC ¶¶ 37-39.)
Thus, Plaintiff alleges the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.
Defendants argue the allegations referenced above
are insufficient because Plaintiff fails to allege facts, “Plaintiff does not
sufficiently state the nature of damages with specificity”, “fails to state the
context for the incident”, “does not indicate statements made by himself or
Defendant Petrosian or identify specific actions taken” “does not specify how
the alleged assault or battery occurred with any descriptive elements, nor make
any indication of how intent was derived from the alleged act” but “merely
supplies conclusory assertions to fulfil[l] elements of the cause of action,
failing to meet the standard of pleading[.]” (Demurrer p. 13.) A “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges
ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles, supra,
42 Cal.4th at p. 550.) The allegations referenced above are sufficient to meet
this standard.
Defendants also argue the negligence cause of
action is uncertain. (Demurrer p. 3.) The first amended complaint is
sufficiently detailed to acquaint Defendants with the nature, source, and
extent of Plaintiff’s cause of action. (See FAC ¶¶ 32-39.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s negligence cause of
action is not uncertain.
 
Thus, this court overrules the demurrer on the
ground the first amended complaint fails to sufficiently state a cause of action
for negligence.
 
V.             
MOTION
TO STRIKE
 

Legal Standard

The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437(a).)¿¿¿¿ 
 

Discussion

 

Punitive Damages

Defendants move to strike the request for punitive
damages. (Motion to Strike p. 2.) 
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to attack a
claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 164.)¿¿ 
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
To justify a punitive damages award, the defendant must be “guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿(Civ. Code., § 3294.) 
 
Malice is defined as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)
Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3).)¿ 
 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves
v. Superior Court, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And
“’conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct as intentional, wilful and
fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of “oppression, fraud, or
malice, express or implied,’ within the meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p.
1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the operative complaint set forth
the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must include¿specific¿factual
allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious to support a claim for¿punitive¿damages.”].)¿
 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for the assault,
battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of action.
(FAC pp. 1, 7-8.) These causes of action are based on the allegations Defendant
Petrosian intentionally “stabb[ed] Plaintiff’s arm with a sharp object” and
“aggressively intentionally approached the Plaintiff, leaning forward and
getting within inches of his person, and in a loud bellicose manner and
intentionally threatened to touch and/or grab Plaintiff in a harmful manner
such that it reasonably appeared that Defendant [Petrosian] was about to carry
out the threat.” (FAC ¶¶ 8, 15.) These allegations indicate Defendant Petrosian
acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety” of
Plaintiff. (See Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).) Thus,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendant Petrosian acted with malice.
 

Special
     and General Damages

 
Defendants move to strike the special and general damages
to all causes of action. (Motion to Strike p. 2.) Defendants argue that the
court should strike the portions of the first amended complaint seeking special
damages because “the evidence presented fails to establish a clear and direct
link between the Defendants’ alleged conduct and the alleged financial losses.”
(Motion to Strike p. 6.) Defendants also argue that the court should strike the
portions of the first amended complaint seeking general damages because
“Plaintiff does not articulate any justification for general damages, and
Plaintiff’s prayer is uncertain.” (Motion to Strike p. 7.)
 
“[J]udges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transport Authority, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1192-1193.) Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint sufficiently alleges causes of action for battery,
assault, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligence.
Plaintiff also alleges a causal connection between the alleged conduct and
damages. (See FAC ¶¶ 17, 23, 30-31, 36-37.) 
At this stage, this court assumes the truth of these allegations. Thus,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a causal connection between the conduct and
damages.
 

Defendant
     Claude’s Repair Center

 
Defendants move to strike the fourth cause of
action as to Defendant Claude’s Auto Service Center because “Defendant
Petrosian is the sole proprietor of the business” and “Defendant Petrosian’s
business has no supervisory role over him or duty to control him as is alleged
in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.” (Motion to Strike pp. 2-3, 8.)
 
Plaintiff does not appear to allege that Defendant
Petrosian is the sole proprietor of Defendant Claude’s Auto Service Center or
that Claude’s Auto Service Center had no supervisory role or duty to control
Defendant Petrosian. The only reference to a sole proprietor is found in the
first amended complaint is in paragraph 3, that states: “Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and based upon such information and belief alleges that at all
times relevant hereto Defendants FREDRICK PETROSIAN, an individual; and DOES
1-100, inclusive, are, and at all times herein mentioned were individuals,
corporations, sole proprietors, shareholders, associations, partners and
partnerships, joint ventures, and/or business entities unknown, primarily
residing and doing business in the County of Los Angeles, State of California.”
Defendant has not requested the court take judicial notice of anything showing
Defendant Claude’s Auto Repair Service is a sole proprietor. 
 
In contrast, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Claude’s Auto Service Center is a “corporation[] organized and existing under
and by virtue of the laws of the State of California with its principal place
of business in the County of Los Angeles, California.” (FAC ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
also specifically alleges that Defendant Claude’s Auto Service Center “had a
duty to control Defendant [Petrosian] and protect Plaintiff from physical and
mental harm.” (FAC ¶ 35.) 
 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437(a).)¿ “[J]udges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transport Authority, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1192-1193.) ¿¿Plaintiff has alleged Defendant Claude’s Auto Service
Center had a duty to control Defendant Petrosian. (FAC ¶ 35.) This court assumes that factual allegation is true.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, this court overrules
the demurrer and denies the motion to strike.
Dated: January 13,
2025            





  