  Case Number:  21VECV00814    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Ricardo Menjivar v. True Bullion LLC,
  et al; Martin Pike v. True Bullion LLC, et al; Ethan Michael v. True Bullion
  LLC, et al; Norman Menjivar v. True Bullion LLC, et al; and Cynthia Abrams v.
  True Bullion LLC, et al.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
21VECV00814;21VECV00816;
21VECV00817;21VECV00818; 
21VECV01020    
                        107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion to Consolidate 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

 
Grant
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
This motion relates to five cases:
(1) Case No. 21VECV00814, Ricardo Menjivar v. True Bullion LLC, et al.;
(2) Case No. 21VECV00816, Martin Pike v. True Bullion LLC, et al.; (3)
Case No. 21VECV00817, Ethan Michael v. True Bullion LLC, et al.; (4)
Case No. 21VECV00818, Norman Menjivar v. True Bullion LLC, et al.; and
(5) Case No. 21VECV01020, Cynthia Abrams v. True Bullion LLC, et al. Plaintiffs
Ricardo Menjivar, Martin Pike, Ethan Michael, Norman Menjivar, and Cynthia
Abrams (“Plaintiffs”) were employed by Defendants GSI Exchange, Subculture
Servies, and Anthony Anderson and filed complaints alleging various causes of
action relating to their employment. (Ricardo Menjivar Complaint ¶ 9; Pike
Complaint ¶ 9; Michael Complaint ¶ 9; Norman Menjivar Complaint ¶ 9; Abrams
Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
On September 19, 2024, Defendants
True Bullion LLC, Gold Silver International Exchange dba GSI Exchange,
Subculture Services, LLC, Anthony Allen Anderson, and Agnes Viacrucis
(“Defendants”) filed a motion in the Ricardo Menjivar case to
consolidate the five cases (the “Motion”). On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff
Ricardo Menjivar filed an opposition. On January 3, 2025, Defendants filed a
reply.
 
On October 25, 2024, Defendants
filed the motion to consolidate in the Martin Pike, Ethan Michael,
Norman Menjivar, and Cynthia Abrams cases. On December 27, 2024,
Plaintiffs Martin Pike, Ethan Michael, Norman Menjivar, and Cynthia Abrams
filed oppositions. On January 3, 2025, Defendants filed replies.
 
The oppositions filed in the Martin
Pike, Ethan Michael, Norman Menjivar, and Cynthia Abrams cases
appear to be identical. The opposition filed in the Ricardo Menjivar case
contains additional arguments about the procedural defects in the Motion. As to
the arguments raised in the Martin Pike, Ethan Michael, Norman
Menjivar, and Cynthia Abrams oppositions, this court will refer only
to the Martin Pike opposition. 
Defendants’ motions and replies similarly appear to be identical. 
 
II.            
DEFENDANTS’
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request this court take
judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar’s Complaint; (2) Plaintiff
Martin Pike’s Complaint; (3) Plaintiff Ethan Michael’s Complaint; (4) Plaintiff
Norman Menjivar’s Complaint; and (5) Plaintiff Cynthia Abrams’ Complaint.
(Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.)
 
The court may take judicial notice
of “Records of . . . any court of this state.” (See Evid. Code § 452(d).) Thus,
this court grants Defendants’ requests. 
 
III.          
PLAINTIFF’S
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiffs submit three evidentiary
objections to statements in Defendants’ counsel’s declaration. 
(Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
pp. 2-3.) This court sustains Plaintiffs’ first and second 
objections because the statements
lack relevance. This court overrules Plaintiffs’ third objection.
 
IV.          
PROCEDURAL
ISSUES
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350 (“Rule 3.350”)
sets forth the procedural requirements for a motion to consolidate. In
pertinent part, the rule requires a notice of motion to consolidate to:
 
(A) List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record;
 
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and
 
(C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated.
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.350(a)(1).)
 
The motion to consolidate “[i]s deemed a single motion
for the purpose of determining the 
appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations,
and other supporting papers must be filed 
only in the lowest numbered case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.350(a)(2)(A).) The motion to 
consolidate must also be “served on all attorneys of
record and all nonrepresented parties in all of 
the cases sought to be consolidated” and “have a proof
of service filed as part of the motion.” (Cal. 
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(2)(B)-(C).)
 
Defendants served the motion on all
attorneys of record, and in all of the cases sought to be consolidated and
Defendants filed proofs of service. The notices of motion have also been filed
in each case sought to be consolidated and include the appropriate case
numbers.
 
In the opposition filed in the Martin
Pike case, Plaintiff Martin Pike argues “the Court lacks discretion and
must deny Defendants’ motion in the Ricardo Menjivar case (21VECV00814) on
procedural grounds” because “Defendants failed to comply with all statutory
requirements when they filed their motion. After briefing closed, this
court postponed the hearing. However, that did not remedy Defendant’s
procedural shortcomings as of the filing date.” (Pike Opposition p. 2.)
 
Plaintiffs cite no authority for
the proposition Defendants were barred from curing the procedural defects with
their motion after this court continued the hearing on this Motion.
 
V.             
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“When actions involving a common question of law
or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of
any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1048(a).)
 
There are two types of
consolidation. (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corps., Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1127, 1147.)  First, the court may
consolidate actions “for purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain
otherwise separate.” (Id.) Alternatively, the court may consolidate
cases for all purposes, “where the two actions are merged into a single
proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set of
findings and one judgment.” (Id.) 
 
The
decision to consolidate rests within the sound discretion of the trial judge. (Fisher
v. Nash Bldg. Co.¿(1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 397, 402.)¿ “[I]t is possible
that actions may be thoroughly ‘related’ in the sense of having common
questions of law or fact, and still not be ‘consolidated,’ if the trial court,
in the sound exercise of its discretion, chooses not to do so.” (Askew
v. Askew¿(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942, 964.)¿ It is not abuse of discretion to
deny a motion for consolidation of actions where parties in each action are
different or issues are different.¿ (See¿Muller v. Robinson¿(1959) 174
Cal App 2d 511, 515.)¿ On the other hand, actions may be consolidated in the
discretion of the trial court “whenever it can be done without prejudice to a
substantial right.”¿ (Carpenson¿v.¿Najarian¿(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 856,
862.) 
 
In
deciding whether to grant a motion to consolidate, the court should consider
whether the cases have “common issues and whether undue confusion or prejudice
[is] likely to result from the consolidation.”¿ (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon
Shield Claimants Trust¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 979.)
 
VI.          
THE
ARGUMENTS
Defendants
argue there is good cause to consolidate for all purposes because, “all five
actions arise out of the same conduct and incident(s) of alleged wage and hour
violations surrounding Plaintiffs’ employment with Defendants generally around
the same time.” (Motion p. 5.) Defendant further argues that “[t]hese five
actions essentially involve the same parties, witnesses, and evidence” and
“[t]he factual allegations supporting the respective causes of action are
virtually identical.” (Motion p. 7.) Finally, Defendants argue that “[b]ecause
the actions arise out of the same conduct, the liability issues and
adjudication of the same involve common questions of law and fact. In order to
avoid potentially inconsistent findings and verdicts regarding liability, as
well as the potential prejudice that may result to the parties, the interests
of justice dictate that the actions should be consolidated for all purposes.”
(Motion p. 5.)
 
Plaintiff
argues Defendants failed to support the Motion because Defendants merely point
to allegations in the complaint, not admissible facts. (Ricardo Menjivar
Opposition p. 2.) Plaintiff further argues consolidation is not appropriate
here because the Plaintiffs “were hired at different times, often months or
years apart.” (Ricardo Menjivar Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff argues the cases
involve substantially different law and facts because some of the Plaintiffs
were paid hourly minimum wages, while others were not and “Defendants alleged
some of the Plaintiffs were 
‘managers’ whereas others were not.” (Ricardo Menjivar Opposition p. 3.)
Moreover, Plaintiff states that the two Menjivar cases contain tort
claims, while the other cases do not and argues that “[f]orcing the jury to sit
through evidence and testimony about defamation actually wastes time and
expenses for the Abrams, Pike and Michael cases.” (Ricardo
Menjivar Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiff also points out the cases are not equally
mature because the appellate stays lasted longer in the Menjivar, Michael, and
Pike cases and “[t]he cases may be ready for trial at different dates.”
(Ricardo Menjivar Opposition p. 4.) Plaintiff argues Defendants’ discovery
arguments are meritless because all discovery has been propounded and answered.
(Ricardo Menjivar Opposition pp. 4-5.) Plaintiff states “Plaintiffs were hired
at different times, held different positions and seniority, may be subject to
different labor-law exemptions, and their pay structures were different” and
“Plaintiff will suffer prejudice if the cases are consolidated and the jury incorrectly
reaches consistent results just for the sake of consistency with the other
cases.” (Ricardo Menjivar Opposition p. 5.) Finally, Plaintiff argues that “the
defamation issues in the two Menjivar cases (pertaining to larceny,
theft) may negatively affect or poison, by association, the labor-law issues
and Plaintiffs in the Pike, Michael, and Abrams cases” and “[t]he sexual
harassment by Mr. Anderson against Ms. Abrams may prejudice the other four
cases.” (Ricardo Menjivar Opposition p. 5.)
 
In
the reply, Defendants note that “Plaintiffs’ counsel filed a Notice of Related
Case in R. Menjivar, N. Menjivar, Pike and Michael on June 30, 2021, and filed
a Notice of Related Case in C. Abrams on September 24, 2021. This Court may
take judicial notice of the fact that Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Related
Cases in each of the five actions admitting there from the same or
substantially identical transactions, incidents or events requiring the
determination of the same or substantially identical questions of law or fact.”
(Reply p. 2.)  Defendants argue there are
common questions, including:
 
-       
Whether
Plaintiffs were independent contractors; 
-       
Whether
the Outside Salesperson Exemption applies; 
-       
What
were the duties/responsibilities under the purported agreements with
Defendants;
-       
Whether
or not Plaintiffs were entitled to meal and rest breaks; [and]
-       
Whether
Defendants were acting in good faith and/or substantial compliance with their
legal obligations, if any.
 
(Reply p. 3.)
 
Defendant
notes that “each Plaintiff alleges they were ‘in-house salespersons; of
Defendants”, “each Plaintiff was hired within a year of each other and worked
concurrently during the relevant time period”, and “each of the Plaintiffs were
separated from Defendants around the same time in March 2021.” (Reply p. 4.)
Defendant argues that it is irrelevant the Plaintiffs were hired on different
dates because they worked for Defendants for the “same general period of time.”
(Reply p. 4.) Defendants also notes that “four Plaintiffs filed their
respective lawsuits on the same day (June 23, 2021) and the final case was
filed less than two months later (August 2, 2021).” (Reply p. 4.) 
 
Defendant
argues there will be “duplicative evidence in all five (5) cases if required to
be tried separately” including “evidence relating to Defendants’ business and
business practices”, “evidence relating to Defendants’ business and business
practices will be substantially similar, if not identical, in all five related
cases”, and “there will be the same witnesses (including the parties themselves
and Defendants) that will testify at trial.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
Next,
Defendant argues that discovery is ongoing. (Reply p. 5.) 
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that the trial can be organized to avoid confusing the jury,
consolidation would promote judicial economy, and “Plaintiff’s argument that
the cases are not ‘equally mature’ is . . . rebutted by the fact that all five
related cases currently have the same trial date.” (Reply pp. 6-7.)
 
VII.        
DISCUSSION
 
First,
this court considers whether there are common issues. (See Todd-Stenberg v.
Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 978.)¿ In
Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, the trial court
consolidated six actions, but by the trial, only three actions remained. (Id.
at p. 979.)  The Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]he trial court correctly anticipated that a large portion of the
trial would be devoted to issues common to the three cases” and “the parties
were able to use the same witnesses . . . [and h]ad there been three separate
trials the same deposition testimony would have been introduced, many of the
same expert witnesses called and much of the same evidence presented.” (Id.)
The Court of Appeal concluded that “consolidation was appropriate.” (Id.)

 
Here,
although each of the cases involves a different plaintiff, the cases share the
same Defendants. Further, the cases allege causes of action related to
labor-law violations against Defendants. This court anticipates that the
parties will present much of the same evidence and the trials will require
calling many of the same witnesses.
 
Plaintiffs
note that the Ricardo Menjivar and Norman Menjivar cases allege
causes of action for defamation, while the remaining three cases do not.  Moreover, each of the Plaintiffs were hired
by Defendants at different times. The Ricardo Menjivar complaint alleges
he was hired on August 22, 2018. (Ricardo Menjivar Complaint ¶ 9.)
The Abrams complaint alleges Plaintiff Cynthia Abrams was hired starting
May 2019. (Abrams Complaint ¶ 9.) The Pike complaint alleges Plaintiff Martin Pike
was hired starting May 27, 2019. (Pike Complaint ¶ 9.) The Michael complaint
alleges Plaintiff Ethan Michael was hired December 1, 2018. (Michael Complaint
¶ 9.) Finally, the Norman Menjivar complaint alleges Plaintiff Norman
Menjivar was hired December 3, 2018. (Norman Menjivar Complaint ¶ 9.)
Further, Plaintiff submits evidence showing Plaintiff Martin Pike received
payments of hourly minimum wages, while Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar did not
receive hourly minimum wages. (Ex. 1; Ex. 2; Vardapour Declaration ¶¶ 2-3.) Although
Plaintiffs correctly point out that these cases do not involve identical fact
patterns, and there are some issues that are not common to all of the cases, it
does not alter this court’s conclusion that the vast majority of the issues in
the case involve similar issues.
 
Also, consolidation will
further judicial economy. If the cases are consolidated, they will require a
single trial and jury, rather than five separate trials and juries. Further,
the common witnesses and Defendants would attend only one trial.
 
Finally, this court also
considers whether
“undue confusion or prejudice [is] likely to result from the consolidation.”¿
(See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, supra, 48
Cal.App.4th at p. 978.) Defendants cite Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield
Claimants Trust and note that “[t]he Todd-Sternberg Court rejected
the argument the jury was confused by having three different plaintiffs in the
consolidated cases and that jurors were unable to distinguish between them.”
(Reply pp. 6-7.) 
 
These
cases involve different plaintiffs, employment dates, and different facts,
including how each plaintiff was, or was not, paid wages. And the tort causes
of action in the Menjivar cases will involve different facts and
law.  However, in Todd-Stenberg v.
Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 980, the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]here were only three plaintiffs[, t]he jury was
given a separate binder of evidence and separate chronologies prepared on each
plaintiff” and “[i]t is highly unlikely that the jury would have confused the
cases.” Likewise, here, the parties can organize trial such that the jury will
not be confused about the different Plaintiffs, employment dates, and facts in
each case. 
VIII.      CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court grants the
Motion.
 
Dated: January 10, 2025                               
                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court