 Case Number:  23BBCV02207    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO CONDUCT SITE INSPECTION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02207

 



MP:  


The
  People of the State of California acting by and through the Department of
  Transportation (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Apex Development, Inc. and Anthony
  Nowaid. (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On September 25, 2023, The People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation, (Caltrans)
brought this action against Apex Development, Inc. (Apex), Anthony Nowaid
(Nowaid), Eriks Towing, The Habibi Shack, Challenger Trucking Express, Stone
Concrete Mix, and Valley Green Tree Services (collectively Defendants). This is
an unlawful detainer matter in which Caltrans seeks possession from Defendants of
the property located at 12398 Sheldon Street, Sun Valley, CA 91352 (Subject
Property). Some Defendants have been subsequently dismissed from this action,
but Apex and Nowaid remain. On November 11, 2023, Apex and Nowaid filed a
collective Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Before
the Court is a “Motion for Leave to Conduct Site Inspection”. This motion
results from several site inspections conducted by Caltrans at the Subject
Property. After conducting two site inspections, Caltrans maintained further
inspection was necessary to access locked offices and storage areas at the Subject
Property. Apex and Nowaid thereafter sought relief from the Court via an ex parte
Application for Protective Order. Apex and Nowaid primarily expressed fear that
Caltrans would use the inspection to gain access to confidential documents. 
 
On
January 10, 2024, Apex’s ex parte application came on for hearing. The Court
granted the protective order without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing a noticed
motion factually justifying the scope of its requested inspection. (See Jan 12,
2024 Signed Order, Choi Decl. Exh. 12.)
ANALYSIS: 
 
Caltrans
now moves to allow for further inspection of the Subject Property. Caltrans
states that they were previously unable to inspect a (1) a storage area behind
a locked gate, (2) two buildings on the property, and (3) seven shipping
containers (Kim Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. 13; Kim Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 14.) Even with the
limited inspections that occurred, Caltrans states the inspection revealed a
multitude of fire code and lease violations. These include (1) the storage of
illegal fireworks, (2) numerous electrical hazards, and (3) unapproved
structures that did not exist prior to the lease. (Kim Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 14.) 
 
Demands
for further inspection are governed by C.C.P. § 2031.310(a) which states: 
 
On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply:
 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.
 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
 
(3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” “In the more specific
context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the
trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but
unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product,
that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG
Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
In
combination with the above facts, Caltrans advances several arguments in
support of good cause. First, Caltrans argues that it has a contractual right
to inspect the premises. Having reviewed Article
11.1 of the lease, the Court agrees that the provision entitles Caltrans to
enter and inspect the premises and any building or improvements. (Choi Decl. Exh. 1. P. 24.) The Court finds this
provision indicative of good cause in that it is directly relevant to Caltrans’
claims of breach of contract. 
 
The Court
notes a previous argument Defendats raised regarding Caltrans’ contractual
rights. In their ex parte application Apex and Nowaid argued that Caltrans’
contractual right to entry should be limited by Civil Code § 1954, which limits
a landlord’s ability to inspect a dwelling unit to cases of emergencies, for
necessary repairs, or by court order. Caltrans rightly points out that the
Subject Property is not a dwelling unit as defined by Civil Code § 1940. (Civ.
Code § 1940(c) [“Dwelling unit” means a structure or the part of a structure
that is used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one person who
maintains a household or by two or more persons who maintain a common
household.”].) This is distinguishable from commercial real property which is
defined by Civil Code § 1954.26 to be “any part, portion, or unit thereof, and
any related facilities, space, or services…” This code section specifically
excludes dwelling units from the definition of commercial real property. (Civ
Code § 1954.26(d)(1).) The Court is satisfied that Civil Code § 1954 does not
serve to limit Caltrans’ contractual right to enter the property. 
 
Caltrans
also advances that the State Fire Marshall has a statutory right to enter the
premises. California Fire Code § 1.11.2.2 provides: 
 
The fire chief of any city, county or fire
protection district, or such person’s authorized representative, may enter any
state institution or any other state-owned or state-occupied building for the
purpose of preparing a fire suppression preplanning program or for the purpose
of investigating any fire in a state-occupied building.
 
The
California Fire Code, in conjunction with Caltrans’ showing the existence of
fire hazards at the property, is sufficient to show good cause for further
inspection.
 
The
opposition presented by Apex and Nowaid primarily relies on the nature of the
remaining structures to be inspected. Apex and Nowaid argue that because the
structures are mobile, i.e. shipping containers and temporary offices, they are
not “the property of Caltrans”. Apex and Nowaid cite to no authority that
temporary structures placed on a property leased from the State are not subject
to inspection. Apex and Nowaid’s occupation of the property is predicated
entirely on a lease which contains the provision that the landlord has the
right to “…enter in and upon the premises and any building or improvements
situated thereon…” (Choi Decl. Exh 1, p. 24.) In the absence of authority to
the contrary, the Court is unconvinced by the argument that the movable nature
of the structures renders them beyond inspection.   The Court does agree that shipping containers
are not structures as contemplated by the lease, but temporary officers are
likely encompassed by the lease’s inspection right.
 
Further,
the Court finds the argument that Caltrans is supposedly strongarming Apex and
Nowaid to be irrelevant to a showing of good cause. The alleged actions of
Caltrans employees or their accompaniment by California Highway Patrol Officers
are simply not factors in determining whether Caltrans has shown good cause for
further inspection. To the extent that Apex and Nowaid feel the inspection
would violate a right or privilege they hold, they do not identify any. General
aversions that Caltrans “has no right” to inspect the premises hold no weight
without being founded on legal authority. As previously mentioned, Civil Code §
1954 cannot serve as such authority. Apex and Nowaid’s feelings that the
inspections are embarrassing or disrupting are not sufficient to defeat the
clearly demonstrated good cause. 
 
As such,
the Court is inclined to grant the motion. Caltrans has demonstrated good cause
by showing they are both entitled to inspection and that further inspection is
required to discover any breach of the lease agreement or fire code violations
present in the uninspected installations. In so ruling, the Court finds it
would be appropriate to limit the scope of the inspection such that Apex’s
concerns regarding confidential documents in its offices be considered. The
Court outlines this limitation below. 
 
 
Given the
showing of good cause, the Court is inclined to grant the motion. In so doing,
the Court finds it would be appropriate to limit the scope of the inspection
such that Apex’s concerns from the ex parte application may be accommodated.
The Court outlines this limitation below. 
 
Counsel
for Caltrans has indicated that it is open to a limitation on the inspection
that “no documents on the Premises will be inspected or copied, or otherwise
moved, except to the extent necessary to complete the fire and safety
inspection.” (Mot. p. 11.) Caltrans offers this limitation to assuage Apex’s
primary concern in their ex parte application that Caltrans would use the
inspection to gain access to Apex’s “proprietary and confidential documents,
legal documents, price lists, bids and other items that are not available to
the public.” (See Jan 9, 2024 Ex Parte application) In the Court’s evaluation,
Caltrans’ proposed limitation would be sufficient to ensure the rights
currently protected by the protective order remain safeguarded. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion for leave to conduct site inspection is GRANTED subject to the
limitation that no documents on the Premises will be inspected or copied, or
otherwise moved, except to the extent necessary to complete the fire and safety
inspection. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The People of the State of California acting by and through
the Department of Transportation’s
Motion for Leave to Conduct Site Inspection came on
regularly for hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT SITE INSPECTION
IS GRANTED SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION THAT NO DOCUMENTS ON THE PREMISES WILL BE
INSPECTED OR COPIED, OR OTHERWISE MOVED, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT NECESSARY TO
COMPLETE THE FIRE AND SAFETY INSPECTION.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CALTRANS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 