  Case Number:  19BBCV00464    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

MOTION
TO AMEND NAMES OF JUDGMENT DEBTOR

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 19BBCV00464

 



MP:  


Bruce Wasserman (Judgment Creditor)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Bruce Wasserman
(Judgment Creditor) brings this motion to amend the name of Judgment Debtor in
this action. On May 3, 2021, judgment was entered in this matter against Felix
and Jacqueline
Wizgan (Judgment
Debtors) in the sum of $100,117.15. Judgment Creditor now seeks to amend the
name of Jacqueline Wizgan to reflect aliases under which she holds significant assets.
Judgment Debtors present no opposition to the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
187 provides that once a court has jurisdiction over a party, it may employ all
the means necessary to carry its jurisdiction into effect. “This includes the
authority to amend a judgment to add an alter ego of an original judgment
debtor, and thereby make the additional judgment debtor liable on the judgment.
Amending a judgment to add an alter ego of an original judgment debtor is an
equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the
judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the
real defendant.” (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v. City
of Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280 [internal citation and quotation
marks omitted].) “The decision to grant an amendment in such circumstances lies
in the sound discretion of the trial court. ‘The greatest liberality is to be
encouraged in the allowance of such amendments in order to see that justice is
done.’” (Id. quoting Carr v. Barnabey’s Hotel Corp. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 14, 20.)
 
A motion
should be supported by a declaration or other evidence showing that the
judgment debtor is using a new name (e.g., certified copy of order changing
judgment debtor’s name, merger document or marriage certificate). (Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 47 [judgment amended
six years after entry to change judgment debtor’s first name from “Pamela” to “Paula”
was void on its face where amendment was made without notice to new judgment
debtor or opportunity for her to present evidence or argument and failed to
present any evidence showing that “Pamela” and “Paula” were same person].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Judgment Creditor seeks to
amend the judgment to add the name of “Jaqueline Wizgan”. The current judgment
is against “Jacquline Wizgan” and “Jaquline Wizgan “ would be added as an alias.
(Ross Decl. ¶ 2.) Judgment Creditor states that Judgment Debtors hold real
property and an automobile under the “Jaquline Wizgan” name, frustrating
Judgment Creditor’s attempts to issue a writ of execution as to those assets.
(Ross Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Judgment Creditor attaches the deed for the real
property held under the “Jaqueline” name as Exhibit B and the purchase
documents for the automobile as Exhibit C. 
 
Judgment Creditor states
that Judgment Debtors have apparently transferred the real property between the
“Jacqueline” and “Jaquline” names several times. Transfer documents supporting
this argument are attached as Exhibits F and G. 
 
Judgment Creditor
ultimately requests the name of “Jaquline Wizgan” be amended to “Jaqueline
Wizgan, also known as Jacqueline Wizgan” so that Judgment Creditor can issue a
writ of execution. 
 
Having reviewed the
evidentiary submissions of Judgment Creditor the Court is satisfied that
Judgment Debtor indeed holds herself out to the public under both “Jaqueline”
and “Jacquline” Wizgan. The Court notes that despite being served with
the notice of motion in several different methods, Judgment Debtors have not
presented any opposition to the motion. In light of the evidence provided and
the lack of any argument to the contrary, the Court finds the motion proper to
advance the interest of Judgment Creditor in collecting upon the judgment. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
amend is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Bruce Wasserman’s
Motion to Amend Name of Judgment Debtor came on
regularly for hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO AMEND NAME OF JUDGMENT DEBTOR IS
GRANTED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, WASSERMAN TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 