 Case Number:  23BBCV00660    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00660

 



MP:  


David & Kaela King (Defendants)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Aileen
Tahmasian (Plaintiff) brings this action against David and Kaela King
(Defendants). Plaintiff alleges Defendants negligently operated a motor vehicle
and that such negligence resulted in Plaintiff’s injury and loss of personal
property. 
 
Defendants
now move to compel compliance of a non-party, Glendale Diagnostic Imaging
Network, Inc. (Glendal Imaging), with a deposition subpoena requesting the
production of documents. Neither Plaintiff nor Glendale Imaging present any
opposition to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of... documents... at
the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion... may make an order...
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare.” C.C.P. § 1987.1 does not contain a meet and confer requirement, nor a
requirement that good cause for production of documents be
shown.  The Court’s analysis does not end there.
 
C.C.P. §
2031, which applies to document production requests served on a party,
requires the party seeking to compel such production set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.
C.C.P. § 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement.
Since both sections are part of a single statutory scheme, and since it is
unlikely the Legislature intended to place greater burdens on a non-party than
on a party to the litigation, the Court reads a similar requirement into the
latter section.
 
In Digital
Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the
Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there is “a disputed fact that is
of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to
prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove
or disprove the fact.”  If the moving party has shown good cause for
the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92,
98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court has concerns
about the service of the deposition subpoena on Glendale Imaging. The Court
finds that Defendants have not adequately evidenced proper service of the
subpoena pursuant to C.C.P. § 2022.200(b)(2), which provides “If the deponent
is an organization, to any officer, director, custodian of records, or to any
agent or employee authorized by the organization to accept service of a
subpoena.” 
 
Defendants served their subpoena
on Glendale Imaging via process server on August 4, 2023. (Exh. B.) The address
for service was 13311 Victory Blvd. Van Nuys, CA 91401. (Id.) The
process server’s affidavit only states that the person served was “Natalie”. (Id.)
There is no physical description of this person or a description of who they
are in relation to Glendale Imaging. If Natalie is a person authorized to
accept service of a subpoena on Glendale Imaging’s behalf, Defendants have not
shown this to be the case.  
 
The proof of service for
notice of this motion also appears to have been served on Natalie. The process
server’s affidavit reflects service on a “Natalie T.” in Reception on March 11,
2024. As with the previous proof of service, this affidavit contains no information
from which the Court can glean Natalie’s status as an agent for proof of
service under C.C.P. § 2020.220(b)(2). 
 
Defendants also submit the
declaration of their counsel, El Mahdi Young (Young), regarding service. Young
states that he used Ontellus, a copy service, to issue and serve the subpoenas.
(Young Decl. ¶ 6.) Young states the subpoenas “were served on the CORs for
Glendale Diagnostic August 4, 2024.” (Id.) It is unclear from Young’s
declaration whether he is referring to Natalie or someone else. In any case,
the Young declaration is devoid of any explanation as to how Young is certain
the subpoena was served on the Custodian of Records for Glendale Imaging when
the proofs of service contain no such information. 
 
In short, the Court finds
service of the deposition subpoena to be lacking. From the information
presented it is not clear whether the subpoena was served on the Custodian of Records
for Glendale Imaging or anyone else who is authorized to accept service. The
Court’s concerns about service are further compounded by the lack of opposition
from Glendale Imaging. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel compliance is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
David & Kaela
King’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena came on regularly for hearing on April 19, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 