 Case Number:  23BBCV01670    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01670

 



MP:  


Cloud 9 Hookah Lounge, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Deijae Malik Johnson (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Deijae Malik Johnson
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Cloud 9 Hookah Lounge, Inc. (Cloud9),
Burbank Holdings 2000 LLC (Burbank Holdings), and Christian Doe (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he was assaulted on Cloud9’s premises by a
club promoter, Christian Doe. Plaintiff alleges he sustained serious injuries
from the altercation. 
 
Before
the Court are two motions to compel further responses brought by Cloud9. Cloud9
seeks further responses to its Form Interrogatories and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff opposes and Cloud9 replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discovery
Timeline 
 
October
30, 2023, Cloud9 propounded and e-served Plaintiff, through his counsel with
all discovery demands. (Barilla Decl. ¶ 3.) On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel e-served unverified responses to the discovery demands. (Barilla Decl.
¶ 4.) On December 29, 2023, Cloud9’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter
via email regarding the lack of verifications and the perceived deficient
responses. (Barilla Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) Cloud9 then filed its motions to compel
initial responses, which were taken off calendar after Plaintiff served
verified responses on February 9, 2024. (Barilla Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) Also on
February 9, 2024, Cloud9’s counsel inquired as to whether further responses
were forthcoming to cure the deficiencies outlined in the meet and confer
letter. (Barilla Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel then emailed the
following to Cloud9’s counsel: 
 
Revise your meet and confer. Your
mainly arguing the facts presented and have not posited a scintilla of evidence
as to why the responses are not code compliant or insufficient. To that effect,
you haven’t met and conferred in good faith. 
 
(Barilla
Decl. Exh. H.) 
 
Cloud9
replied that is disagreed with the assessment of Plaintiff’s counsel. (Barilla
Decl ¶ 8.) Cloud9 states that, as of the filing of the motion, no further
responses have been received. (Barilla Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
Supplemental
Responses 
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition only argues that the motions are moot by virtue of the service of
supplemental responses on April 5, 2024. (Oppo. Exhs. A, B.) In reply Cloud9
asserts that the supplemental responses are invalid because they are not
verified. A review of Plaintiff’s own submission reveals that the responses are
not verified. 
 
Despite
this, Cloud9 agrees to limit its request for further production to Form
Interrogatory Nos. 2.5, 2.6, and 14.1 if Plaintiff serves verified supplemental
responses. Cloud9 states that the responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 2.5,
2.6, and 14.1 remain deficient. The Court has received no indication from
Plaintiff that verified supplemental responses have been filed as of April 16,
2024. Further, Plaintiff makes no representation with respect to the
aforementioned Form Interrogatories in his opposition. 
 
Unverified
responses are “tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) The Court finds the lack of
verification means the April 5, 2024 supplemental responses do not moot
Cloud9’s motions. The Court is inclined to grant the motions provided that verified
responses remain unserved. Should Plaintiff serve these responses and the request
be limited to Form Interrogatory Nos. 2.5, 2.6, and 14.1, the Court remains
inclined to grant the motions as limited. Defendant has made no representation
as to the alleged incompleteness of their answers to these interrogatories or
the validity of any objections thereto, and thus has failed to carry his
burden. 
 
Accordingly,
the motions to compel further responses are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
In
cases where supplemental responses have been made after a motion to compel
further responses has been filed, the Court has several options in how to
resolve the motions. The Court finds the following excerpt from Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants to be
instructive: 
 
In many cases involving untimely
responses, the propounding party will take the motion off calendar or narrow
its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding party proceeds with the
motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to rule on the motion. The
trial court might compel responses without objection if it finds no legally
valid responses have been provided to one or more interrogatories; it might
deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in
part, and just impose sanctions; it might treat the motion as one
under section 2030.300 and either determine that further answers are
required, or order the propounding party to “meet and confer” (§ 2030.300,
subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar, thereby requiring
the propounding party to file a motion under section 2030.300.” 
 
(Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390. [emphasis added])
 
Regardless of the mootness
of Cloud9’s motions, the fact remains that Plaintiff’s non response to meet and
confer correspondence necessitated the filing of these motions in order to
produce supplemental responses. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
citation to the “Eighth Amended Standing Order” is irrelevant in determining
sanctions. The full name of the Eight Amended Standing Order is “Eighth Amended
Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (emphasis added).” By its very name this standing
order has no bearing on meet and confer efforts held in regular Independent
Calendar unlimited civil courts. While this standing order disfavors meet and
confer via email, this Court routinely sees meet and confer conducted as such. Even
further, a review of the meet and confer emails reveals that Cloud9’s counsel put
considerable effort into outlining the deficiencies of the responses. (Barilla
Decl. Exh. F.) 
 
The above being
established, the Court finds that the amount of sanctions requested by Cloud9
are excessive. Cloud9 requests $3,180 in connection with the Form Interrogatories and $2,660.00
in connection with the RFPD. These
amounts reflect a purported 16 hours in bringing these motions and replying to
any opposition. (Barilla Decl. ¶ 12.) The Court believes that an appropriate
sanction amount would include fees for nine hours of attorney work at $260 per
hour.  As such, the Court grants
sanctions in the amount of $2,340 plus the filing fees of $120 ($60x2) for a
total of $2,460 against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and severally.  These are payable within 30 days.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Cloud 9 Hookah
Lounge, Inc.’s Motions to Compel Further Responses
came on regularly for hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO CLOUD9’S
DISCOVERY DEMANDS ARE GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER RESPONSES DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.  
 
SANCTIONS ARE ISSUED IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,340
AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND HIS COUNSEL, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS SHALL BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 