 Case Number:  24BBCV00188    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00188

 



MP:  


Zach Krasman & Compass, Inc.
  (Defendants)




RP:  


Lilit Simonyan, Hilda Alaverdyan, and
  A.T. (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Lilit Simonyan (Lilit), Hilda
Alaverdyan (Hilda), and A.T., a minor by and through her guardian ad litem
Armen Tatosyan (A.T.) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Bestar,
Inc., Wayfair, Inc., Zach Krasman, Compass, Inc., Matanel Maman, and Irene
Maman (collectively Defendants). 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Lilit’s father, Saro
Simonyan (Decedent), visited a home Lilit had recently purchased with the
intent to remove a murphy bed which was previously installed. Plaintiffs
further allege that while Decedent was working on the murphy bed, the bed
suddenly sprung back and trapped him. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was
crushed by the sudden action and ultimately died from his injuries. 
 
Plaintiff Hilda is the wife of decedent
and Plaintiff A.T. is decedent’s granddaughter. Bestar, Inc. is the alleged
manufacturer of the murphy bed and Wayfair, Inc. is the alleged seller. Zach
Krasman and Compass, Inc. were the real estate agent and brokerage firm for the
sale of the home. Matanel and Irene Maman were the sellers of the home. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint contains causes
of action for (1) Products Liability (as to all Defendants) and (2) Negligence
(as to all Defendants). 
 
Before the Court is the demurrer of
Zach Krasman and Compass, Inc. (Demurring Defendants). Demurring Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have alleged insufficient facts to support either cause
of action.  Plaintiffs oppose the
demurrer and Demurring Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Campo Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
Demurring
Defendants request judicial notice in conjunction with their Reply papers. Demurring
Defendants request judicial notice be taken of the Residential Purchase
Agreement signed by Lilit. Demurring Defendants state that notice is proper
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452 but they do not specify any subdivision or
provide substantive explanation. Plaintiffs object to the judicial notice on
grounds that it is not a matter which is indisputably true. 
 
The Court
notes that generally Judicial Notice is requested with moving papers, as new
evidence is not often considered upon reply. Further, Demurring Defendants have
included no explanation with their requests as to why the document is relevant.
The Court can glean from the reply papers that Demurring Defendants wish the
agreement to be noticed to show the murphy bed was a fixture rather than a
product. As will be discussed, the Court finds this argument is irrelevant to
determination of this demurrer. As such, Demurring Defendants’ request is
DENIED. 
 
First COA
– Products Liability – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Demurring
Defendants contend that they cannot be subject to strict liability because they
did not place the murphy bed in the stream of commerce. The Court agrees with
the conclusion. 
 
A
plaintiff may seek recovery in a products liability case on theories of both
negligence and strict liability. (Johnson v. United States Steel Corp.
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 22, 30.) To state a cause of action for negligence a
plaintiff must allege: (1) duty; (2) breach of duty; (3) legal cause; and (4)
damages. (Friedman v. Merck & Co.  (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454,
463.) “Generally, to establish a strict products liability claim, the plaintiff
must prove that [1] there was a defect in the manufacture or design of the
product and [2] that such defect was a proximate cause of the injuries.” (Sherman
v. Hennessy Industries, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1152, fn. 7
[citation and internal quotation marks omitted].) 
 
California
products liability doctrine “provides generally that manufacturers, retailers,
and others in the marketing chain of a product are strictly liable in tort for
personal injuries caused by a defective product.” (Peterson v. Superior
Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185, 1188.) “A products liability claimant must
meet a condition precedent to successfully maintain the action. He or she must
show that the object or instrumentality claimed to be defective was in fact a ‘product’
as defined or contemplated by the Restatement of Torts, legislation or case
law.” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
1611, 1626.) Whether the particular object or instrumentality is a “product” is
a question of law for the trial. (Id.)
 
Demurring
Defendants argue that because they had no hand in manufacturing or producing
the murphy bed, they cannot be subject to liability for its defects. Demurring
defendants cite to Hernandezcueva v. E.F. Brady Co., Inc., which held: 
 
[U]nder the stream-of-commerce approach to
strict liability[,] no precise legal relationship to the member of the
enterprise causing the defect to be manufactured or to the member most closely
connected with the customer is required before the courts will impose strict
liability. It is the defendant’s participatory connection, for his personal
profit or other benefit, with the injury-producing product and with the
enterprise that created consumer demand for and reliance upon the product (and
not the defendant’s legal relationship (such as agency) with the manufacturer
or other entities involved in the manufacturing-marketing system) which calls
for imposition of strict liability.
 
(Hernandezcueva
v. E.F. Brady Co., Inc. (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 249, 257.) 
 
Demurring
Defendants advance the above quotation as supporting their argument that they
cannot be strictly liable because they are only agents of the actual sellers.
The Court finds this to be a misunderstanding of the holding in Hernandezcueva.

 
The Court
reads the reference to “agency” in Hernandezcueva to be illustrative of
a tenuous connection which cannot, by itself, support a strict products
liability claim. Hernandezcueva did not state that agency was never
sufficient to assign liability to products, rather it held that some other
participation by the agent was needed. The Hernandezcueva court went on
to state that “To be subject to strict liability, a party must play more than a
random and accidental role in the overall marketing enterprise of the product
in question.” (Id. at 258.) “Strict liability is not imposed even if the
defendant is technically a ‘link in the chain’ in getting the product to the
consumer market if the judicially perceived policy considerations are not
satisfied. Thus, a defendant will not be held strictly liable unless doing so
will enhance product safety, maximize protection to the injured plaintiff, and
apportion costs among the defendants.” (Id.) 
 
The above
being established, the Court finds the Complaint currently does not state
sufficient facts as to Demurring Defendants’ involvement in placing the murphy
bed in the stream of commerce. Plaintiffs’ Complaint lumps Demurring Defendants
in with all other Defendants in claiming that they “designed, manufactured,
assembled, constructed, installed, recommended, packaged, tested, inspected,
distributed, marketed, promoted, advertised, and/or sold the murphy bed”
(Compl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs only allegations specifically speaking to
Demurring Defendants involvement are that they sold the home to Lilit without
any disclosures, notice, or warnings about the murphy bed. (Compl.
¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiffs do not allege any facts supporting their claim that Demurring
Defendants had forward knowledge of the defective condition of the murphy bed. 
 
In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the murphy bed was held out on the Compass,
Inc. website as a feature of the home prior to the sale. They include a
screenshot of listing from the Compass website showing the bed. (Oppo. p. 5.)
This listing is not present in the Complaint, nor has it been judicially
noticed. Accordingly, the listing has no bearing on this demurrer. On the face
of the Complaint and judicially noticed facts, Plaintiffs have not stated
sufficient facts to allege that Demurring Defendants placed the murphy bed in
the stream of commerce. 
 
Lastly,
the Court finds Demurring Defendants’ argument that the bed was a “fixture” and
not a “product” speaks more to a motion for summary judgment than a demurrer.
Whether the bed was in fact a product or fixture is just that, a question of
fact. (See Knell v. Morris (1952) 39 Cal.2d 450, 456.) It may be that
Demurring Defendants are able to show at trial or via dispositive motion that
the bed was a fixture, but such a determination has nothing to do with the
sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. 
 
Under the
stream-of-commerce theory, imposition of strict liability is limited. (Arriaga
v. CitiCapital Commercial Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1535 (Arriaga).)
For strict liability to be applicable a party must “play more than a random and
accidental role in the overall marketing enterprise of the product in
question.” (Garcia v. Halsett (1970) 3 Cal.App.3d 319, 326 “[S]trict
liability is not imposed even if the defendant is technically a ‘link in the
chain’ in getting the product to the consumer market if the judicially
perceived policy considerations are not satisfied.] Therefore, a defendant will
not be held strictly liable unless doing so will enhance product safety, maximize
protection to the injured plaintiff, and apportion costs among the defendants.
[Citations.]” Arriagaa, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1537.
 
Given the
arguments in opposition, the Court finds Plaintiffs are unlikely to be able to
amend the complaint to meet the requirements for strict liability. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Negligence
– Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Demurring
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for negligence only as it is
brought by Plaintiffs Hilda and A.T. Demurring Defendants argue that Hilda and
A.T., as third parties, cannot state a claim for negligence because they were
owed no duty. 
 
In order
to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate
cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Demurring
Defendants argue that because Hilda and A.T. were not the purchasers of the
home, Demurring Defendants owed them no duty. In making their arguments,
Demurring Defendants rely primarily on Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage
Co. v. Superior Court. (Coldwell)
 
In Coldwell,
the California Court of Appeals reviewed a trial court determination granting
the demurrer of a real estate broker. (Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage
Co. v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 158, 163.) The plaintiff in
the appeal was the minor son of the person who purchased the home. (Id.)
The plaintiff alleged he was injured by the defendant’s failure to disclose a
mold infestation in the property. (Id.) The trial court sustained the
demurrer to plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud/misrepresentation, reasoning
that a real estate agent cannot be liable for non-disclosure to third parties.
(Id. at 167.) The trial court overruled the demurrer to plaintiff’s
cause of action for negligence. (Id. at 163.) 
 
The Coldwell
court observed that “Real estate brokers are subject to two sets of duties:
those imposed by regulatory statutes, and those arising from the general law of
agency.” (Id. at 164, citing Carleton v. Tortosa (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 745, 755.) The plaintiff in Coldwell proceeded under a
statutory theory of duty, arguing that the real estate agent owed him a duty
pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 2079. (Id.) This section imposes a duty on
a real estate agent to prospective buyers “to conduct a reasonably competent
and diligent visual inspection of the property offered for sale and to disclose
to that prospective purchaser all facts materially affecting the value or
desirability of the property that an investigation would reveal.” (Id.)
The court went on to conclude that because the plaintiff had no “broker-customer”
relationship with the defendant, no duty was owed. (Id. at 166.) 
 
Plaintiffs
contend that Coldwell is too narrow to apply here, but they do not offer
reasons as to why. As contrary authority, Plaintiffs cite Hall v. Rockcliff
Realtors. Hall concerned a situation in which a plaintiff sought to
hold the owners of a property and the real estate agent liable for injuries
sustained when they were being shown the house. (Hall v. Rockcliff Realtors
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134.) The Hall court ultimately found that real
estate agents could be liable for injuries to third parties where they owed
them a duty to disclose known but concealed dangerous conditions. (Id.
at 1140.) 
 
The Court
finds the facts of Hall to be
inapposite to this case. Here, Hilda and A.T. were not injured by a concealed
condition during the showing of a property. Instead, Hilda and A.T.’s
negligence claim stems from injuries incurred by Decedent after the property
was purchased. The Court finds the facts of this case are instead much closer
to those of Coldwell. Further, any claim of duty owed to Hilda
and A.T. would necessarily be on the failure to inspect and warn. The Complaint
does not allege Demurring Defendants duty specifically, instead it lumps it in
with duties owed by actual manufacturers. It appears to the Court that the
theory of duty which Plaintiffs seek to apply to Demurring Defendants is indeed
a failure to inspect and warn. This duty has been codified in Cal. Civ. Code §
2079 and held to be inapplicable to third persons as per Coldwell. As such, it appears that Demurring Defendants cannot owe Hilda and
A.T. a duty to warn as a matter of law. 
 
To the extent that Hilda and A.T. may be able to
allege a different duty is owed to them, the Court finds leave to amend
appropriate. Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Zach Krasman &
Compass, Inc.’s Demurrers came on regularly for
hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION, AS BROUGHT BY PLAINTIFFS HILDA AND
A.T., IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, COMPASS, INC. TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 