 Case Number:  23BBCV02356    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
ARPIL 19,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02356




 
MP:  


 
Complete Gym Solutions,
  LLC (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Lance Zavela & Ryde
  Enterprises, LLC (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Complete
Gym Solutions, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Lance Zavela (Zavela)
and Ryde Enterprises, LLC (Ryde). Plaintiff alleges Zavela, its former National
Sales Manager, misappropriated trade secrets. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
Zavela utilized Plaintiff’s confidential customer database to convince
Plaintiff’s customers to rent equipment from Zavela’s new employer, Ryde. 
 
Before
the Court are a pair of motions filed by Plaintiff seeking further discovery
responses from both Zavela and Ryde. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that Zavela
and Ryde refuse to produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Request for the
Production of Documents. 
 
The
discovery requests at the heart of these motions have already been the subject
of an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) held by this Court. On March 19,
2024, the Court held the IDC and memorialized its findings in a minute order.
The Court indicated that it was inclined to order Zavela and Ryde to fully
comply. 
 
Zavela
and Ryde oppose this motion, maintaining that they have no documents which are
responsive to Plaintiff’s request. Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff
served its RFPD on counsel for Zavela and Ryde. (Abrams Decl. ¶ 3.) On
November 20, 2023, counsel for Zavela and Ryde served responses which largely
consisted of objections. (Abrams Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) The parties
thereafter met and conferred and Ryde/Zavela agreed to provide supplemental
responses. On January 11, 2024, the supplemental responses were rendered.
(Abrams Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 7.) These responses were accompanied by the
production of 58 pages of communications responding to Plaintiff’s requests. (Id.)

 
Request for Relief 
 
Plaintiff’s motions
essentially seek three things. First, Plaintiff seeks further responses documents
to nearly all of its RFPD served on Zavela and Ryde. Plaintiff argues that the many
of Zavela and Ryde’s responses to the RFPD were improperly temporally limited.
Plaintiff explains that the parties agreed during meet and confer efforts that Defendant
would serve supplemental responses to the RFPD. Plaintiff further explains that
the parties agreed the responses to RFPD Nos. 10, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 would
be limited by the language “as of April 6, 2023”. (Abrams Decl. Exh. 6.) Plaintiff
explains that the purpose of this limitation was to limit responses to only
those after Zavela ceased to be employed with Plaintiff, which occurred April
6, 2023. Plaintiff argues that Defendant improperly applied this temporal
limitation to all of the supplemental responses in the RFPD. Plaintiff states
that Defendant instead applied the agreed upon limitation to preclude any
documents after April 6, 2023, the exact opposite of the intended effect.
 
Second, Plaintiff seeks
further responses specifically to RFPD No. 22 directed at Zavela. This request
asks Zavela for: 
 
All photographs, digital images, and screenshots stored electronically
or otherwise, of materials related to YOUR employment at CGS, including but not
limited to CGS data or information stored in Goldmine or BMS.
 
Plaintiff argues that
Zavela’s supplemental response, asserting that he has never had any documents
responsive to this request, is at worst false and at best intentionally
misleading. 
 
Third, Plaintiff seeks
further responses specifically to RFPD No. 43 directed at Ryde. This requests
asks Ryde for: 
 
All photographs, digital images, and screenshots, stored
electronically or otherwise, of materials related to ZAVELA’s employment at
CGS, including but not limited to CGS data or information stored in Goldmine or
BMS.
 
Plaintiff’s argument here
mirrors that of their argument with respect to Zavela’s RFPD No. 22. 
 
In short, Plaintiff seeks
to compel Zavela and Ryde to produce any documents in their possession which
show Zavela’s communication with Plaintiff’s clients from April 6, 2023 to the
present. 
 
Declaration of Danielle
Rivera 
 
In support of good cause for
further production, Plaintiff offers the declaration of former Ryde employee
Danielle Rivera (Rivera). Rivera’s states that she was instructed by Zavela to
make calls to Plaintiff’s clients and input information about Plaintiff’s
clients into Ryde’s database. (Rivera Decl. ¶ 3.) As the exact language of
the declarations bears some impact on Court’s determination, the Court
reproduces Rivera’s testimony regarding potentially responsive documents below:

 
Mr. Zavela had me working from a green hanging file folder about 1
½ inches thick, that he provided, which was full of printouts of photographs or
screenshots from CGS’s customer relationship management system (“CRM”) known as
Goldmine. The documents in this folder that I worked from included screenshots
of CGS’s clients (which I learned and understood were literal photographs of
various computer screens that Zavela had emailed to himself or pictures he took
that he then downloaded and printed), which consisted of detailed information
regarding CGS’s clients that Mr. Zavela told me came from CGS’s Goldmine
system. I observed that many of the documents had CGS’s logo on them 
 
(Rivera Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Mr. Zavela also brought to Ryde’s office banker’s boxes full of
“leads” which were similar to the photographic printout data from CGS’s CRM
system, but were more detailed including CGS’s “final sale” documents having
CGS’s name 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 3 DECLARATION OF DANIELLE RIVERA 2954659 and logo on them, and folders
including signed contracts between CGS and its customers, such as Sheraton,
with Mr. Zavela’s notes written on them, showing the equipment leased, final
costs, payment records. In these boxes there was also printed out email
correspondence between Mr. Zavela and CGS’s customers
 
(Rivera Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Production from Subpoenas 
 
At the IDC, Plaintiff’s
indicated to the Court that they had obtained voluminous documents in response
to subpoenas served on companies which were former clients of Plaintiff but had
since become clients of Ryde. These subpoenas specifically requested production
of communications between Zavela and the former clients. Plaintiff was requested
to forward these documents to counsel for Zavela and Ryde so that they could
evaluate the veracity of their responses to the RFPD. In their reply papers,
Plaintiff asserts that they received the following responses to their
subpoenas: 
 
Bell Canyon produced 218 pages, Sheraton produced 231 pages,
Westside produced 155 pages, Aimbridge produced 181 pages, and Heritage
produced 38 pages
 
(Kamorsky Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
The Court notes that Zavela
and Ryde do not address these documents in their opposition. As such, the Court
is left without an explanation as to why, when posed the same question, Zavela
and Ryde’s production amounts to 58 pages while the subpoenaed production
turned up over 900 pages of communications. 
 
Declaration of Zavela 
 
In support of their objection
to further production, Zavela and Ryde submit Zavela’s own declaration. Zavela
states in his declaration that Austin Hai, president of Plaintiff, was well
aware of his practice to compile “his own list of prospects and leads and
generate quotes, and invoices” from Zavela’s personal residence. (Zavela Decl.
¶ 11.) Zavela asserts that, when he left Plaintiff’s employee, he “did not
take any files from CGS.” (Zavela Decl. ¶ 21.)  Zavela further states “All the files in my possession
were files I had already compiled over the years and were already in my
possession, generated by my own efforts.” (Id.) 
 
Zavela attaches an index of
his personal files as Exhibit 1 to his declaration. Zavela states that he did
not take any screenshots of Goldmine data and he would not need to, as all the
information there was publicly available online. (Zavela Decl. ¶ 22.) 
 
As regards the declaration
of Rivera, Zavela asserts it is patently false. (Zavela Decl. ¶ 27.)
Zavela states: 
 
I did not take any green folder from CGS. The files I have in my
possession were files I had compiled prior to working from CGS and during my
employment with CGS, which Austin Hai is very well-aware of
 
(Zavela Decl. ¶ 28.) 
 
Zavela further states: 
 
the proverbial box that Plaintiff is touting as their smoking gun
are mostly composed of my personal notes, quotes, and invoices related to old
leads that never became a client of CGS or of RYDE.
 
(Zavela Decl. ¶ 31.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
are entitled to further production of documents responses to RFPD Nos. 22 and
43. 
 
The Court finds the
production of documents in response to the subpoena indicates that there is a
substantial amount of responsive documents which Zavela and Ryde are not
producing. Zavela’s declaration does not serve so much as an outright denial
that responsive documents exist, rather it serves to highlight that Zavela
feels documents he created while working for Plaintiff are not related to his
employment at CGS within the meaning of the question. The Court finds this
categorization to be incongruent with the facts presented. Regardless of
whether Plaintiff’s president was aware of Zavela generating material at his
personal residence, it does not follow that the location the documents were
generated at render them outside the scope of Zavela’s employment. 
 
Further, Zavela’s
declaration does little to negate the claims of Rivera that Zavela maintained
possession of documents related to Goldmine. Rivera specifically states that
Zavela “had her working out of a green folder”, which is not negated by
Zavela’s statement that he “did not take any green folder” from Plaintiff. The
folder is not at issue here, its contents are. Zavela’s argument is further
undercut by his very next words, attesting that he has files in his possession
but that he believes they are his personal files. Even assuming arguendo that
these files were Zavela’s personal files, they would still be responsive to the
request for any documents relating to his employment with Plaintiff and
directly relevant to this case. 
 
As regards the bankers box
referenced in Rivera’s declaration, the Court notes that Zavela again does not
refute its existence. First, Zavela’s reference to the box as proverbial makes
little sense in light of the fact that he then immediately acknowledges its
corporeal existence. Second, Zavela is explicitly stating that the box exists
and has responsive documents, but that he doesn’t think he should produce them
because he owns the documents and not Plaintiff. 
 
All of this is compounded
by the fact that Zavela and Ryde responses to RFPD Nos. 22 and 43 were that
additional responsive documents did not exist. Zavela and Ryde’s responses to
these requests were identical “Responding Party assert that the documents
responsive to this Request have never been in the custody or control of Responding
Party.” Defendant’s argument seems to be that the files in question are not
relevant, which does nothing to address their earlier contention that
responsive documents don’t exist at all. 
 
As concerns relevance, the
Court finds Zavela and Ryde’s argument that only two former clients of
Plaintiff have ever contacted Ryde has little impact on the determination of
this motion. The number of Plaintiff’s previous clients who reached out to Ryde
is not dispositive because Plaintiff claims that Zavela was explicitly
soliciting more clients. Taking this argument at face value, Zavela and Ryde
still provide no explanation as to why the two previous clients, Bell Canyon
and Sheraton, produced four times the amount of responsive documents as did
Zavela when posed with the same request. 
 
Lastly, the Court finds Plaintiff
has shown good cause for further production as concerns the responses which
were improperly temporally limited. Plaintiff demonstrated a good faith meet
and confer effort resulting in a reasonable temporal limitation on certain
requests. Zavela and Ryde present no argument on this front except to say that
Plaintiff’s requests are overbroad in their scope. Zavela and Ryde provide no
reasoning for why the temporal limitation which was meant to apply only to RFPD
Nos. 10, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 were instead applied to every RFPD. To the
extent that Zavela and Ryde believe that any of the non-stipulated RFPD should
have been limited in scope, they do not identify them or explain why a limited
response is fully complaint. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (C.C.P. § 2031.310(h).) 
 
The Court does not find
that Zavela and Ryde possessed substantial justification in opposing this
motion. Zavela and Ryde were given ample notice that their theory of opposition
was without merit and were encouraged to reevaluate their position. Instead, Zavela
and Ryde have dug in and presented arguments in opposition which were without
merit. 
 
Plaintiff requests double
this amount, $15,470, reflecting 31 hours of attorney work in bringing both
motions at a rate of $595/hour. (Abrams Decl. ¶ 22.)  While these motions were most certainly more
involved than the average motion to compel further responses, the Court believes
that 17 hours’ worth of sanctions to be appropriate. Furthermore, the Court
finds the hourly rate for an attorney with over 30 years of experience to be
reasonable.  Accordingly, the Court
grants total sanctions in the amount of $9,045 (17 hours @$595 + $60x2) joint
and several as to both defendants.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Complete
Gym Solutions, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses came on regularly for
hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE
GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AS AGAINST ZAVELA AND RYDE
IN THE AMOUNT OF $9,045 JOINT AND SEVERAL.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: April
19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 