 Case Number:  23BBCV01489    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19,
2024 

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case #23BBCV01489

 



MP:  


Lauren Pena (Defendant,
  Cross-Complainant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rhonda and Glenn
Hunter (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Uber Technologies Inc. (Uber), Raiser-CA,
Raiser, LLC, Lauren Pena (Pena), and Muruli Ntamba (Ntamba). This suit concerns
an incident where Ntamba, while working for Uber, was transporting Plaintiffs’
son and four others from Fullerton, CA to Corona, CA. Plaintiffs allege that Ntamba
made a non-emergency stop on the freeway during the trip, at which time
Plaintiffs’ son exited the vehicle in a disoriented state. Plaintiffs further
allege that Ntamba thereafter left their son on the side of the road, where he
was ultimately struck by a vehicle operated by Pena. 
 
On
September 9, 2023, Pena filed a Cross-Complaint against Uber, Raiser-CA, Raiser, LLC, and Ntamba (Cross-Defendants). Pena’s
Cross-Complaint states four causes of action for (1) Indemnity, (2)
Apportionment of Fault, (3) Comparative Fault, and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Pena now
moves for leave to amend her Cross-Complaint to add an additional cause of
action for Negligence. Plaintiff seeks permission of the Court to amend as all
Cross-Defendants have filed responsive pleadings. Cross-Defendants have
rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966.) While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has
caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it
denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing
side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Pena attaches a proposed
First Amended Cross-Complaint. (Schneberg Decl. Exh. A.) Pena also states the
allegations that are proposed to be added concerning the cause of action for
Negligence, the demand for jury trial, and the prayer for relief. (Mot. p. 1-2.)
Pena states that the purpose of this amendment is to state a claim for personal
injuries in connection with the event giving rise to the allegations of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint. (Schneberg Decl. ¶ 3.) Pena explains that this
relief was not requested sooner because she was initially only represented by
counsel within the scope of defense and damage to her vehicle. (Schneberg Decl.
¶ 5-6.) Pena has subsequently retained additional counsel to represent her
with respect to the personal injuries she now alleges. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds the requirements
of California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) are satisfied.
Additionally, as the underlying facts are related to the original Cross-Complaint,
allowing Pena to file the amended Cross-Complaint will increase the likelihood
of the case being resolved efficiently on the merits.
 
Requests to amend initial
pleadings are to be liberally considered and Cross-Defendants have rendered no
opposition to Pena’s motion. 
Additionally, the trial in this case has not yet been set, so there
would be no prejudice to Defendant if Pena is allowed to amend her Cross-Complaint
at this time. 
 
Accordingly,
Pena’s motion for leave to amend her Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Lauren Pena’s Motion for
Leave to Amend came on regularly for hearing on April
19, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.  AMENDED PLEADING TO BE FILED WITHIN 20
CALENDAR DAYS. 
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SET FOR AUGUST 19,
2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT PENA
TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                                   _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 