 Case Number:  24BBCP00018    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00018

 



MP:  


Two Nine Sports Inc.
  (Petitioner)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Two Nine
Sports Inc. (Petitioner) brings this petition to confirm an arbitration award
obtained against Spare CS, Inc. (Spare). The arbitration award was made on October
12, 2023 for $148,474.12. 
 
The Court
previously denied a petition to confirm arbitration award in this matter,
expressing concerns with the service of notice on Spare. Petitioner has renewed
their Petition, supported by two new proofs of service addressing the Court’s
prior concerns. Spare has not responded to the petition. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party
to an arbitration award may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate
the award. (C.C.P. § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is
duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 1286.) A petition to confirm a binding
arbitration shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may
name any other parties to be bound by the award. (C.C.P. § 1285.) The petition
shall (1) set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement; (2)
set forth the name(s) of the arbitrator(s); and (3) set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and written opinion of the arbitrator. (C.C.P. §
1285.4(a)-(c).)
 
The
petition to confirm must be served and filed no later than four years after the
date of service of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner (C.C.P. § 1288)
but may not be served and filed until at least 10 days after service of the
signed copy of the award upon the petitioner. (C.C.P. § 1288.4.) Where the
arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which service shall be
made and the person on whom service is to be made has not previously appeared
in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance with C.C.P.
§ 1290.4(a), the petition and notice of hearing must be served in a manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action. (C.C.P. § 1290.4(b).)
 
When a
party petitions the court to confirm the award, the opposing party may seek
vacation of the award by way of response only if he serves and files his
response within 10 days after the service of the petition under C.C.P. §
1290.6. (Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. v. Bernard (2010) 182
Cal.App.4th 60, 64.) Unless the response is duly served and filed, under C.C.P.
§ 1290, the allegations of the petition are deemed to be admitted by the other
side. (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Service 
 
Petitioner now submits a
proof of service showing service was made on D’Ontra Hughes, Spare’s agent for
service of process, via substitute service. Service was rendered on March 8,
2024 at 16192 Coastal Hwy Lewes, DE 19958. The notice was left with “Allison
Raftmanner” whom the affidavit identifies as a “Managing Agent – Authorized to
Accept Service.” Service was also mailed to the same address thereafter.  
 
Having reviewed the proof
of service the Court is satisfied that service was made in accordance with C.C.P.
§ 1290.4(b). 
 
Petition 
 
The Court
finds Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of C.C.P. § 1285.4(a)-(c). 
 
Attached
to the Petition is a copy of the “Financial Services and Account Management
Agreement” which bound the parties to arbitration of the underlying dispute.
(Petition p. 6.) The Petition identifies the arbitrator as “Kathi M. Sandweiss”
(Petition p. 2.) Lastly, the Petition attaches the final arbitral award, signed
by the arbitrator. (Petition p. 18.) 
 
No
response being received from Spare, the Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Two Nine
Sports Inc.’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration
Award came on regularly for hearing on April 19, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD IS GRANTED.

 
UNLESS AL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PETITIONER TO
GIVE NOTICE.   
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 