 Case Number:  22BBCV00823    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 19, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00823

 



MP:  


Peoples Action Power (Defendant)




RP:  


Rebecca Brudzynski (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rebecca
Brudzynski (Plaintiff) brings this action against Peoples Action Power
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that she was subject to racial discrimination
while she was an employee of Defendant in 2020. Plaintiff is in this matter in
pro per. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion to compel the deposition appearance of Plaintiff. Defendants noticed the
deposition of Plaintiff for April 1, 2024. Plaintiff filed written objections
to the deposition subpoena, arguing that the format should be written and not
oral. In addition to Plaintiff’s objections, it appears she is also moving to
quash the deposition subpoena. Plaintiff did not file a motion embodying this
request, rather she has included the request in the substance of her written
objections. Rather than entirely quash the subpoena, Plaintiff requests the
Court modify it so that the deposition is written instead of oral. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party
may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of
any person, including any party to the action. (C.C.P. § 2025.010.) A properly
served deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated
deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for
inspection and copying. (C.C.P. § 2025.280(a).)
 
The party
served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that
party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to
the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (C.C.P. § 2025.410(a).) In
addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order
staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.
(C.C.P. § 2025.410.)
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450.)
 
C.C.P. §
2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid
objection was served under § 2025.410. The objecting party has the burden to
justify objections asserted. (See Denari v. Superior Court (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494-95.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Defendant’s Notice &
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s
oral deposition for April 1, 2024. On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff served written
objections to the deposition subpoena within the time period proscribed by
C.C.P. § 2025.410(a). The parties then met and conferred, whereby Plaintiff
asked to postpone to April 2 or April 3. (Tang Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) On
March 16, 2024, Plaintiff emailed Defendant’s counsel and requested the
deposition be conducted in writing. (Tang Decl. Exh. D.) The parties reached an
impasse as to the nature of the deposition, oral or written, and Defendant
thereafter filed this motion to compel. 
 
On March 21, 2024,
Defendant served an amended notice of deposition with a date of April 2, 2024.
(Tang Decl. Exh. F.) Plaintiff thereafter filed renewed objections to the
deposition subpoena.  
 
Objections
 
The Court first addresses
Plaintiff’s objections to the deposition subpoena. Plaintiff objects to the
deposition subpoena on the following grounds: 
 
1.     
Plaintiff
has anxiety and an oral deposition will make this worse. 
2.     
Plaintiff
is self-represented, and it will be hard for her to answer questions while
serving as her own counsel. 
3.     
Defendant’s
subpoena is poorly timed because they had a year prior in which to depose
Plaintiff. 
4.     
Plaintiff
generally invokes the protection of her privacy. 
 
The Court first notes that
Plaintiff’s objections are not accompanied by any declarations or evidentiary
exhibits. Despite Plaintiff’s reference to various exhibits in her written
objections, none are attached. The Court is unclear what exhibits Plaintiff is
referring to. 
 
Insofar as Plaintiff’s
anxiety is concerned, the Court is without evidence to make a determination as
to the existence and severity of Plaintiff’s medical condition. Plaintiff’s
objection purports to attach proof of her diagnoses as Exhibit A, but no such
exhibit is attached. Plaintiff’s general reference to a medical diagnosis of
anxiety does not constitute an evidentiary showing required to obtain relief
from a deposition subpoena. Plaintiff bears the burden of demonstrating the
existence of a valid objection to Defendant’s request for oral deposition, but
she has not done so here. 
 
Plaintiff’s objection on
grounds of her self-representation is also unsupported by any authority or
exhibit. The Court notes the oral depositions of pro-per litigants are
routinely conducted in cases throughout the Los Angeles Superior Court system.
Plaintiff is not required to retain counsel to represent her, but she cannot
then use her status as a pro per litigant as a sword to defeat Defendant’s
deposition subpoena. In the absence of any authority to the contrary, the Court
does not find this objection to be valid. 
 
With respect to the timing
of deposition notice, Plaintiff does not state that Defendant is outside of the
statutory time frame to depose her. Plaintiff only argues that Defendant could
have deposed her sooner. The Court does not find Defendant’s lack of earlier
deposition stands as a valid objection.
 
Lastly, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s objection on the grounds of privacy is unsubstantiated. 
 
“The state Constitution
expressly grants Californians a right of privacy.” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552; John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38
Cal.4th 1177, 1198.) “Accordingly, a litigant may invoke the constitutional
right to privacy as justification for refusing to answer questions that
unreasonably intrude on that right.” (John B. supra, 38 Cal.4th at
1198.) However, the right to privacy is not absolute, and Court must balance
right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against privacy interests
of persons subject to discovery. (Id. at 1199.)
 
When the production of such
private information is sought by way of discovery, the burden falls on the
party asserting a privacy interest to show that their privacy interests are so
serious that they outweigh the interests of the subpoenaing party’s prospective
invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that oral deposition would be any more or less intrusive than a
written deposition. Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant’s counsel will harass her
or pry into unrelated matters are based entirely on speculation, furthermore if
the case goes to trial Plaintiff will be required to testify before a jury in
person. To the extent that Plaintiff finds any of the questions to be harassing
or outside the scope of this litigation, she retains the ability to object to
such questions during her deposition and seek a protective order. Given
Plaintiff’s minimal showing concerning intrusion into privacy, the Court finds
the objection does not override Defendant’s clear interest in deposing
Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to quash/modify the deposition subpoena is DENIED. 
 
Protective Order
 
The Court next addresses
Plaintiff’s request that a protective order be entered concerning the
deposition. 
 
The Court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent,
or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. (C.C.P. § 2025.420.)
Generally, a deponent seeking a protective order will be required to show that
the burden, expense, or intrusiveness involved in the deposition clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. (Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997)
16 Cal.4th 1101, 1111.) 
 
Plaintiff does not
individually brief her request for a protective order. It appears to the Court
that Plaintiff’s reasons for requesting the protective order are the same as
those for objection to the subpoena. As previously stated, the Court finds
Plaintiff has made no showing with respect to her anxiety diagnosis, unfair
disadvantage by virtue of her pro per representation, or that Defendant intends
to harass her at the deposition. 
 
Further, Plaintiff does not
identify the terms she wishes the deposition to be limited to. Plaintiff states
that the deposition should be limited “to only matters concerning the defendant’s
workplace and causes of action in the case.” Again, Plaintiff’s assertion that
Defendant’s counsel intends to harass her and ask off topic questions is purely
hypothetical. Although C.C.P. § 2025.420 authorizes a motion for protective
order prior to the conducting of a deposition, prohibiting certain questions is
difficult to do when the Court is not aware of what those questions may be. To
the extent that there are issues which Plaintiff does not want to be asked
about, she has not identified them with any specificity. 
 
Plaintiff retains the right
to object to individual questions and at the deposition and she has not
demonstrated why such objections, combined with any subsequent protective
order, would not be sufficient to assuage her concerns about irrelevant
questions. As such, the Court finds Plaintiff has not shown good cause for the
granting of a protective order limiting the deposition to a written format or
limiting the questions that may be asked. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request for a protective order is DENIED. 
 
Sealing Order 
 
Lastly, the Court addresses
Plaintiff’s request that the deposition record be sealed. 
 
Before a trial court orders
a record sealed, it must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d), finding that (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record,
(2) the overriding interest  supports
sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed, (4) the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest. A court’s order allowing documents to be filed
under seal must contain express factual findings establishing these five
factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d).) Overriding interests may include
a substantial probability that movant’s business, competitiveness, or privacy
rights will be adversely affected if the record is not sealed. (See, e.g., McGuan
v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal. App. 4th 974, 988.) 
 
“A request to seal a
document must be filed publicly and separately from the object of the request.
It must be supported by a factual declaration or affidavit explaining the
particular needs of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416.) “[A]t a minimum that the party seeking to seal
documents, or maintain them under seal, must come forward with a specific
enumeration of the facts sought to be withheld and specific reasons for
withholding them.” (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879,
894.)
 
Generally, deposition
testimony is not lodged with the Court until perhaps for trial.  Plaintiff does not brief her request that the
deposition be sealed. Plaintiff identifies no overriding interest that would be
prejudiced should the deposition record not be sealed.  Insofar as Plaintiff may claim her privacy
interests outweigh the public right to access should the transcripts be lodged,
Plaintiff has made no factual showing that this is the case. Plaintiff also has
not submitted any declaration or affidavit attesting to the need for the record
to be sealed. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request that the record be sealed is DENIED. 
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court finds Defendant
timely noticed the deposition of Plaintiff. C.C.P. § 2025.450 requires the
Court to compel the deposition upon motion unless it finds a valid objection
was served under § 2025.410. Having found no valid objection exists here, the
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Peoples Action Power’s
Motion to Compel Deposition came on regularly for
hearing on April 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF
IS GRANTED.  DEPOSITION TO TAKE PLACE NO
LATER THAN MAY 16, 2024.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE.  