  Case Number:  21STCV23555    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude evidence of insurance coverage, settlements or other collateral source
benefits.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO, the motion is deemed made and granted. 
Defendants did not show good cause to depart from the order.  Therefore the motion is granted, except as to
evidence of insurance to establish the actual amount paid of any medical bill.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence of or reference to two 2013 orders precluding Plaintiffs’
expert Barry Horn from testifying as irrelevant and prejudicial.  The 2013 orders are more prejudicial than
probative and will consume an undue amount of time explaining the context of
those orders.  Therefore, the motion is
granted.  However, if Horn testifies that
his opinions have never been excluded, testifies his opinions have always been
accepted, or otherwise opens the door, the evidence may be admissible.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence or comments about any speculative genetic cause of
mesothelioma.  This motion is too
vague.  Plaintiffs do not identify
specific testimony to be excluded. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion for exclusion of speculative
evidence is deemed made and denied without prejudice to a contemporaneous
objection at trial.  Plaintiffs did not
show good cause to depart from this order. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude evidence of a procedure called talc pleurodesis as not relevant to
causation and irrelevant, prejudicial, and confusing to the jury.  If Plaintiff had this procedure, the motion
is denied without prejudice to an objection at trial.  If she did not have this procedure, the
motion is granted as the evidence would require an undue amount of trial time
and confusing medical evidence explaining the purposes of the procedure and
when and how it is used.  
Plaintiffs’ MIL Nos. 5, 6
Plaintiffs move to
exclude irrelevant definitions of asbestos and arguments about cleavage
fragments.  Plaintiffs contend Defendants
have no evidence that different types of asbestos or cleavage fragments make a
difference in causing disease. 
Plaintiffs say OSHA determined there is no difference in risk based on
fibers and cleavage fragments. 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs are misrepresenting how asbestos is defined
and Plaintiffs’ own experts conclusions. 
This is a disputed issue for trial. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Charles B. Chrystal Company moves to exclude evidence that its product
contained asbestos because Plaintiffs have no admissible evidence of this.  This is a disguised motion for summary
judgment and a disputed issue for the jury. 
The motion is denied.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Johnson & Johnson moves to exclude evidence about diseases caused by talc
other than mesothelioma, such as ovarian cancer.  This case is not about ovarian cancer or
diseases other than mesothelioma.  The
evidence, especially about ovarian cancer, would be more prejudicial than
probative, would confuse the jury, and would consume an undue amount of time in
a trial that is already too long.  The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Johnson & Johnson
moves to exclude references to other lawsuits involving J&J companies.  This motion is too vague.  For example, if Defendant disputes that it
had knowledge about the hazards of asbestos, claims about injury from asbestos
could be relevant to knowledge. 
Therefore some reference to prior cases may be relevant.  However, detailed evidence about the prior
claims and cases will be more prejudicial than probative, confusing, and a
waste of time.  It will be up to the
trial court to decide how much is too much.
To the extent the motion
seeks to exclude settlements, judgments and verdicts from other litigations,
the motion is deemed made and granted pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  Plaintiffs did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  
            Therefore,
the motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Charles
B. Chrystal moves to exclude evidence that Plaintiff used Avon products except
during 1993 to 1997.  This motion is too
vague.  Also, Plaintiff alleges she used
Avon products from the 1970s to 2000. 
Therefore, it is not possible to exclude time periods upon which she
basis her claims.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Defendant Johnson &
Johnson moves to exclude evidence that it discontinued sales of talc-based baby
powder in 2020 as irrelevant, unduly prejudicial, and confusing.  If Defendant disputes that the baby powder
products contained asbestos, the discontinuation of the sales could be relevant
to proving that defect.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
            Defendant
Johnson & Johnson seeks to exclude all media reports about talc litigation
including three Reuters articles dated December 14, 2018, April 9, 2019, and
December 3, 2019, as lacking foundation, hearsay, irrelevant and
prejudicial.  
            The
motion to exclude all media reports is too vague.
            Defendant
argues the December 14, 2018 article is hearsay, misleading and
prejudicial.  Plaintiffs argue it is an
authorized statement by Defendant and is therefore admissible under Evidence
Code sections 1220 and 1222.  There are
at least two problems with this argument. 
First, the vast majority of the 14-page article does not contain
quotations attributed to Defendant’s authorized personnel.  Second, the statements by the reporter who
wrote the article that a representative of Defendant made a particular comment
are hearsay.  So even if the Defendant
made authorized admissions to the reporter, the reporter’s statements in the article
about those admissions are hearsay.  In
other words, there are two levels of hearsay involved.
The article is also
prejudicial because it contains personal stories about third parties getting
sick, allegedly from Defendant’s products, as well as details about other
litigations, including cases about ovarian cancer.  Details about third parties’ injuries and their
allegations about Defendant are not relevant here.  The article will be confusing to the jury and
consume an undue amount of time as Defendant seeks to refute all 14 pages of it
at trial.
The article contains a
tremendous amount of information based on out-of-court sources that are
themselves hearsay.  In other words, it
contains multiple levels of hearsay. 
Plaintiffs argues the
article is evidence that Defendant had notice of the hazards of its talcum
powder products.  The article reports on several
lawsuits against Defendant concerning its talcum powder.  Defendant had notice of these lawsuits well
before the article was published, for example by being served with the lawsuits
and participating in the lawsuits.  If
the fact that Defendant was previously sued about its talcum powder is relevant
and not prejudicial, there are much less prejudicial ways to establish that.
            Plaintiffs
argue the December 14, 2018 article is admissible because Defendant used other media
reports in other cases as evidence.  That
is irrelevant to whether the December 14, 2018 article is admissible in this
case.  Simply because different evidence
was admitted in other cases does not mean this particular article should be
admitted here.
            Defendant
argues the April 9, 2019 and December 3, 2019 articles also are hearsay,
misleading, and prejudicial.  Plaintiffs
do not address these two articles in their opposition.  The April 9, 2019 article discusses
Defendant’s marketing campaigns, numerous ovarian cancer and mesothelioma
lawsuits against Defendant, and the events in other lawsuits against the
company.  These topics are irrelevant in
this litigation, would be unduly prejudicial, and would consume too much trial
time.  The December 3, 2019 article
discusses an FDA symposium of asbestos in talc. 
Plaintiffs did not show why this article is relevant.  Also, both articles are hearsay, and Plaintiffs
did not show an exception to the hearsay rule.
            The
motion is granted as to the three Reuters articles and otherwise denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
Johnson & Johnson
moves to exclude all references to the IWGACP formed in 2018 and its 2020-2022
recommendations and papers as irrelevant, misleading, and hearsay.  If an expert establishes that this is the
type of background information relied upon by experts, the evidence may be
relevant and admissible even if hearsay. 
Defendant can then cross-examine the expert on the fact that the work is
only preliminary.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude evidence about foreign governmental investigations
and proceedings into talcum powder as irrelevant, prejudicial, confusing and
time-consuming.  Plaintiffs did not show
that any defendant was aware of a foreign investigation or proceeding into
talcum powder such that this information is relevant to notice, or that the
foreign investigation or proceeding gave the defendant notice of something it
was not previously aware of.  Allowing
that evidence will consume an undue amount of trial time exploring the reasons
for the foreign investigations.  The
evidence would have little probative value because foreign investigations do
not result in regulations or law in the United States and would be confusing to
the jury.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude statements that litigation forced Defendant to
make public the story of asbestos in cosmetic talc.  Plaintiffs state they need to discuss other
litigations against Defendant to show that Defendant has been concealing the
truth.
            Except
as discussed above, evidence of other lawsuits against Defendant regarding talc
will be time consuming and prejudicial. 
It will result in spending time at trial about how and why Defendant
acted the way it did in the other lawsuits. 
This will waste time and result in a re-litigation of the previous
lawsuits.  Plaintiffs can present
evidence of concealment without delving into the other lawsuits.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude an article titled “Asbestos in Commercial Talcum
Powder as a Cause of Mesothelioma in Women” by Gordon, Millette, and Fitzgerald
as hearsay, based on improper data, and unreliable.  
An expert may rely on
hearsay and tell the jury in general terms that he or she did so.  If an expert testifying in this case
establishes that this article is the type of background information relied upon
by experts in the field, the evidence may be relevant and admissible even if
hearsay.  (People v. Veamatahau
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 22.)  Defendant did
not show that the article is based on data lacking foundation or an unreliable
method.  Defendant can cross-examine any
expert who relies on this article about these points.
            The
motion is granted in part as to the contents of the article unless an expert
establishes a basis for its admissibility. 
Otherwise the motion denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Johnson & Johnson
seeks to exclude an article written by Dr. Jacqueline Moline.  
The articles is hearsay,
but an expert can rely on hearsay and tell the jury generally that he or she
relied on the hearsay.  The expert cannot
tell the jury the contents of the hearsay unless the expert first establishes
that the paper is the type of general background information relied upon by
experts in the field or the document is otherwise admissible.  That Moline wrote the article as part of
litigation goes to the author’s potential bias and the weight for the jury to
give to the article.  
            Defendant
argues the article is unreliable, ignores other cases, and is selective about
the information it uses.  If some expert
in this case testifies that he or she relied on the article, Defendants can
cross-examine the expert about the other cases the article ignres.  This issue goes to the weight to be given the
article and opinions based on the article. 
That the article supposedly relied on false information is also grounds
for cross-examination.
            Defendant
argues no expert can reasonably rely on the article.  That cannot be determined until the expert
testifies and explains why the expert believes the article is reliable.
            Defendant
argues Moline refuses to answer questions about her article.  However, Defendant did not show it subpoenaed
Moline for a deposition and she refused to answer questions in this case.  If she is a witness in this trial and refuses
to answer questions at trial, Defendant can seek object or seek to have her
testimony stricken at that time.
            The
motion is granted in part as to the specific contents of the article unless an
expert establishes a basis for the admissibility of the contents at trial.  Otherwise the motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude all reference to a paper authored by Teresa
Emory, John Maddox, and Richard Kradin. 
The paper is hearsay, but an expert can rely on hearsay and tell the
jury generally about the hearsay.  The
expert cannot tell the jury the contents of the hearsay unless the expert first
establishes that the paper is the type of general background information relied
upon by experts in the field or is otherwise admissible.  
            Defendant
argues the paper should be excluded because the authors regularly testify for
plaintiffs in talc cases.  That may be a
basis to argue to the jury that they should view the article with suspicion and
give it no weight, but it is not a legal ground for excluding expert testimony
(if that were the law, many experts would automatically be excluded).  
            Defendant
argues that the paper does not disclose the source of its data and the authors
refuse to turn over their data.  However,
Plaintiffs do not state that they sought the data in discovery in this case.  
            Defendant
argues the paper contains false, one-sided, cherry-picked data.  That is grounds for cross-examination and
goes to the weight the jury should give the article.
            The
motion is granted in part as to the specific contents of the paper unless an
expert establishes a basis for the admissibility of the contents.  Otherwise the motion denied without prejudice
to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude evidence that Alice Blount tested Defendant’s
talc and found asbestos because she is not an expert in this case and her
conclusions are unreliable.  
            Written
reports and out-of-court statements by Blount about her testing of talc and the
results are hearsay if offered for the truth of the matter asserted.  An expert designated and testifying in this
case cannot tell the jury the contents of that hearsay unless the expert first
establishes that the written or oral statements by Blount are the type of
general background information relied upon by experts in the field or the
statements are otherwise admissible. 
However, an expert may rely on hearsay and tell the jury that he or she
relied on the hearsay.
            Whether
Blount’s work is reliable such that other experts in the field generally rely
upon it as accurate must be established by a testifying expert in this case
first before Blount’s statements are potentially admissible.  
            Plaintiffs
argue Blount’s deposition testimony from a prior case is admissible.  Prior deposition testimony is to be handled
pursuant to the procedures set forth in the July 8, 2022 CMO.  
            The
motion is granted in part as to written and oral statements (other than prior
deposition testimony, which is handled pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO) by
Blount unless an expert establishes a basis for the admissibility of those
statements at trial.  Otherwise the
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The moving
party is to give notice.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
            This
motion in limine seeks an order that witnesses, documents and demonstratives be
disclosed.  This is not a proper motion
in limine.  The trial court will have its
own rules for trial procedure. 
Therefore, the motion is denied without prejudice.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
            Johnson
& Johnson moves to exclude references to the LTL Management bankruptcy
proceedings.  The bankruptcy is
irrelevant and will create time-consuming sideshow.  The motion is granted.
            The
moving party is to give notice.