  Case Number:  24STCV06042    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 17, 2024              TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Junkers2Jewels LLC, et al. v. La-Doris
McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06042            
 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 128.5

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant La-Doris McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris
McClaney Family Trust
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Junkers2Jewels, LLC and Matthew Pelanne.
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
03/25/24: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
breached a purchase agreement for a parcel of real property by unilaterally
cancelling escrow. 
 
Defendant moves for sanctions
against Plaintiffs and their counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 for the filing of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Specific Performance. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
            Defendant’s
Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for sanctions
against Plaintiffs and their counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 for the filing of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Specific Performance. 
Compliance with the Safe Harbor Provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure § 128.5(f)(1)(B)
 
Defendant seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5. The safe-harbor provision of section 128.5 provides:
 
If the
alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing of a written motion
or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other
responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice
of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed
with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the motion or
any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is
not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(f)(1)(B) (bold emphasis added).)
 
            Defendant’s
moving papers did not address the safe-harbor provision, and Plaintiffs object
to the motion as improper for failure to comply with this requirement. In
reply, Defendant argues that the safe harbor provision is not applicable in
this instance because compliance with the 21-day requirement was not possible.
Defendant principally relies on Changsha Metro Group Co. Ltd. v. Peng Xufeng
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1, in support of her position. In Changsha, the
Court of Appeal confronted the issue of whether the safe harbor provision of section
128.5 applies to a request for attorney’s fees based on the contention that a
special motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is
frivolous. (Changsha, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at 6-7.) The Changsha
court attempted to reconcile the safe harbor provision with subdivisions (a)
and (c) of section 128.5, which state that a party may seek attorney’s fees
under this section only after a court order awarding expenses for “actions or
tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5 (a), (c), (f); Changsha, supra,
57 Cal.App.5th at 7-11.) After reviewing the plain language and legislative
history, the Court of Appeal concluded that it was not possible to reconcile
all three subdivisions of the statute as written. (Changsha, supra, 57
Cal. App.5th at 11-18.) The Court of Appeal found that it was not possible to
reconcile the statute as written, and, upon reviewing the legislative history,
determined that the intent of the Legislature was “if one is attempting to
obtain attorney’s fees under section 128.5, then one should use the procedures
of subdivision (f) (minus the prerequisite for an order under subdivision (a))
if at all possible.” (Id. at 18.) Applying this construction to section
425.16, the Court of Appeal concluded that compliance with the safe harbor and
separate motion requirements was not possible in the context of the strict filing
and hearing deadlines for a special motion to strike under subdivision (f) of
section 425.16. (Changsha, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at 19-21.) 
 
            Defendant
analogizes this case to Changsha, asserting that compliance with the
safe harbor provision was not possible because Plaintiffs set the Motion for
Specific Performance to be heard 22 days after service of the motion. This
analogy is not well-taken. In Changsha, the Court of Appeal reasoned
that the safe harbor provision was not workable in the context of a special
motion to strike because its enforcement would either require continuance of
the motion to strike, which is contrary to the express purpose of section
425.16 or would require a party to seek an order shortening the safe-harbor
period any time they sought to pursue sanctions. (Changsha, supra, 57
Cal.App.5th at 19-21.) Here, however, the motion at issue was a regularly
noticed motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b) which cited
no specific authorizing provision and thus was not subject to any abbreviated
briefing and hearing schedule. Moreover, Defendant’s approach essentially
renders the safe-harbor provision a dead letter, since any party who seeks
sanctions for a motion filed within the ordinary notice period could equally
argue that it is not “practical” to provide a 21-day safe harbor to withdraw a
motion within the 16 court days plus time for service allotted by section 1005.
The Court declines to read Changsha’s holding so broadly, and, indeed, Changsha
expressly states that the safe harbor provision should be enforced “if at all
possible.” (Changsha, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at 18.) The Court is
therefore not persuaded that Changsha’s exception to the safe harbor
provision is applicable in the context of Plaintiffs’ motion. 
 
            Because
Defendant freely concedes that she did not comply with the safe harbor
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, the Court declines to
award sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel for their Motion for
Specific Performance.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for
Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 17, 2024              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 