  Case Number:  23TRCV03685    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MIGUEL
  ROJAS MENDOZA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03685




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
CITADEL
  SERVICING CORPORATION DBA ACRA LENDING, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 3, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      (1), (2) Defendant Citadel
Servicing Corp., (3) defendant MTC Financial Inc. 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Miguel Rojas Mendoza
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
(3)  
Demurrer and Joinder
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
RULING
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through seventh cause of action in the
complaint.
The motion to strike is MOOT. 
BACKGROUND
            On November 8, 2023, Miguel Rojas
Mendoza (self-represented) filed a complaint against Citadel Servicing
Corporation dba Acra Lending, MTC Financial Inc. dba Trustee Corps, and Yehudah
Younessian for (1) wrongful foreclosure, (2)-(4) violations of Homeowners Bill
of Rights, (5) cancellation and expungement of trustee’s deed upon sale, (6) violation
of unfair competition law, Bus. & Prof. Code §17200, et seq., and (7)
declaratory relief.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants Citadel Servicing Corp.
and MTC Financial Inc. dba Trustee Corps demur to the complaint and each of the
causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that the real
property at 1 Sweetgrass Lane, Rolling Hills Estates, California owned by
plaintiff by way of a deed of trust dated April 24, 2021.  Complaint, ¶11.  Citadel violated the Homeowners Bill of
Rights Act in connection with processing loan modification applications and
foreclosures.  Id., ¶14.  Around May 2022, plaintiff filed a complete
loan modification package with Citadel. 
Id., ¶18.  Citadel denied his loan
modification and failed to give plaintiff the opportunity to appeal the
denial.  Id., ¶19.  Citadel submitted a defective declaration to
the trustee to begin non-judicial foreclosure process on July 19, 2022 while
plaintiff’s loan modification was still under review.  Id., ¶20. 
Plaintiff contacted an individual named Richard who works with loan
modification to assist plaintiff, but Citadel was working behind the scenes in
violation of the HBOR dual tracking. 
Id., ¶21.  Plaintiff participated
“in this charade of Citadel employees without being given a single point of contract
and on October 31, 2022, in violation of HBOR, Citadel, through its third-party
agent, Trustee Corps, filed a notice of trustee’s sale of December 6,
2022.  Id., ¶23.  Defendant Citadel sent a letter to plaintiff
in April “that said a plan to pay $8527.78 a month.”  Id., ¶26.
In addition to the arguments made
by defendants below, defendant Trustee Corps argues that as a non-judicial
foreclosure trustee, Trustee Corps has a statutory privilege to record
nonjudicial foreclosure documents under Civil Code §§2924(b), (d), and 47.  Further, Trustee Corps had no duty to
plaintiff, which falls outside the foreclosure process, in originating or
servicing plaintiff’s loan.  As alleged,
the only actions taken by Trustee Corps were the recording of a notice of
default on July 25, 2022 and a notice of sale on October 31, 2022, and
conducting the foreclosure sale.
First cause of action for wrongful
foreclosure
The elements of a cause of action
for wrongful foreclosure are (1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal,
fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power
of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale
(usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and
(3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or
mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from
tendering.  Lona v. Citibank, N.A.
(2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 89, 104.  A
complainant is required to do equity “by restoring to the defendant any value
the plaintiff received from the transaction,” if they are to maintain a claim.  Fleming v. Kagan (1961) 189 Cal. App. 2d
791, 795.  “A valid and viable tender of
payment of the indebtedness owing is essential to an action to cancel a
voidable sale under a deed of trust.”  Karlsen
v. Am. Sav. & Loan Assn. (1971) 15 Cal. App. 3d 112, 116.
Defendants argue that there are no
allegations that the alleged foreclosure was not justified from the status of
the loan and HBOR does not apply to the loan, property, or defendants (HBOR is
discussed below).  Defendants also
contend that plaintiff’s claim fails due to lack of prejudice because any
procedural irregularity is not the cause of plaintiff’s injury.  Further, even if HBOR applies, “a mere
violation of HBOR” does not render a sale void or voidable; and that a
borrower’s remedies under the HBOR are limited to injunctive relief or damages
depending on whether a trustee’s deed has been recorded.  “HBOR violations are not grounds for voiding
and rescinding the trustee’s sale.”  Gilmore
v. Wells Fargo Bank N.A. (N.D. Cal. 2014) 75 F. Supp. 3d 1255, 1265.  Defendants further point out that plaintiff
has pled no procedural irregularities with the sale or that plaintiff has made
a tender.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants. Plaintiff
has not shown how he can amend.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Second cause of action for
violations of Homeowners Bill of Rights, Civil Code §§2923.6 and 2924.18
(“dual-tracking”)
Civil Code §2923.6(c) states “[i]f
a borrower submits a complete application for a first lien loan modification .
. . a mortgage servicer . . . shall not record a notice of default or notice of
sale, or conduct a trustee’s sale, while the complete first lien loan
modification application is pending.”
Civil Code §2924.18(1) states:  “[i]f a borrower submits a complete
application for a first lien loan modification offered by, or through, the
borrower’s mortgage servicer at least five business days before a scheduled
foreclosure sale, a mortgage servicer, trustee, mortgagee, beneficiary, or
authorized agent shall not record a notice of default, notice of sale, or
conduct a trustee’s sale while the complete first lien loan modification
application is pending, and until the borrower has been provided with a written
determination by the mortgage servicer regarding that borrower’s eligibility
for the requested loan modification.”
Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient because the allegation that “around May 2022”
plaintiff submitted a “complete” loan modification to Citadel lacks specificity
and is conclusory.  Further, defendants
argue, any alleged “violation” of this code section is not material and thus
not actionable.  To the contrary,
defendants assert, plaintiff alleges that Citadel denied him a modification and
later offered him a repayment plan, and that a notice of default was recorded
when he was “trying to work with Citadel” and not when a complete application
was under review.  Defendants further
argue that plaintiff’s claim is barred by the safe harbor rule in that
plaintiff alleges he was provided a repayment plan, which demonstrates that any
HBOR violations were cured.
Defendants also argues that HBOR
does not apply to the loan or property because plaintiff does not allege that
the property is his principal residence or used for personal, family, or
household purposes, as HBOR only applies to “owner-occupied” residential real
property.  Civil Code §2924.15.  Defendants assert that the loan does not
qualify for HBOR protections because HBOR only applies to senior liens secured
by 1-4 unit residential properties, and plaintiff does not allege such.  Lastly, defendants argue that the HBOR claims
do not apply to Citadel under Civil Code §2923.6(i), which provides that dual
tracking prohibitions do not apply to lenders, who during its immediately
preceding annual reporting year, have foreclosed on 175 or fewer residential
properties.  Likewise, the HBOR sections
cited below also do not apply.  See
Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 1.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third cause of action for violation
of Homeowners Bill of Rights, Civil Code §2923.7
Civil Code §2923.7(a) states that
“[w]hen a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage
servicer shall promptly establish a single point of contact and provide to the
borrower one or more direct means of communication with the single point of
contact.”  “[A] violation of 2923.7 is
actionable only when that violation is material.”  Shupe v. Nationstar Mortg. LLC (E.D.
Cal. 2017) 231 F. Supp. 3d 597, 603. 
Defendants assert that plaintiff
alleges that Citadel provided a SPOC, but that he was transferred numerous
times and that representatives “gave Plaintiff the run around” but plaintiff
also alleges that Citadel reviewed and denied the application and later offered
him a repayment plan.  Defendants argue
that plaintiff’s allegations “amount to, at best, a complaint about customer
service quality which do not relate to any difficulties connected with loss
mitigation efforts.”  Defendants further
assert that a Notice of Default and Notice of Sale were not recorded when a
complete application was pending.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Fourth cause of action for
violation of Civil Code §§2923.55 and/or 2923.5
Civil Code §2923.55(a) provides
that “[a] mortgager servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized
agent shall not record a notice of default pursuant to Section 2924 until”
certain conditions have been satisfied, including that “[a] mortgagor servicer
shall contact the borrower in person or by telephone in order to assess the
borrower’s financial situation and explore options for the borrower to avoid
foreclosure . . . .” Civil Code §2923.55(b)(2). 
Civil Code §2923.5(a)(2) states the same.
“The only remedy afforded by
section 2923.5 is, however, a one-time postponement of the foreclosure sale
before it happens.”  Lueras v. BAC
Home Loans Servicing (2013) 221 Cal. App. 4th 49, 77.
Defendants point out that plaintiff
does not allege that a declaration as required by Civil Code §2923.5(e) is not attached
to the notice of default.  Defendants
also argue that as a matter of law, plaintiff cannot state a claim under this
section because plaintiff alleges that a foreclosure sale has already occurred.  Defendants also argue that the allegations
are conclusory and that plaintiff does not identify how the documents are
“fraudulent,” why Citadel would owe a fiduciary duty to a borrower, and how any
of the documents are “void.”  Defendants
further argue that any alleged violation was material as plaintiff alleges that
discussions did occur, a review was completed, and he was offered a repayment
plan.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Fifth cause of action for
cancellation and expungement of trustee’s deed upon sale
“To prevail on a claim to cancel an
instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due
to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious
injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of one’s
position.”  U.S. Bank National
Association v. Naifeh (2016) 1 Cal. App. 5th 767, 778.
The complaint seeks cancellation of
the deed of trust, substitution of trustee, notice of default, notice of sale,
and trustee’s deed upon sale.  Complaint,
¶74.
Defendants argue that the
allegations fail to articulate how or why any documents are void or voidable
and thus subject to cancellation. 
Defendants assert that while not clear, it appears that plaintiff’s
claim is based entirely on the alleged HBOR violations, which, defendants
argue, fail on several grounds as stated above.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Sixth cause of action for violation
of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200, et seq.
The purpose of the Unfair Business
Practices Act (Bus. & Prof. Code §17000, et. seq.) is to “safeguard the
public against the creation or perpetuation of monopolies and to foster and
encourage competition, by prohibiting unfair, dishonest, deceptive,
destructive, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which fair and honest
competition is destroyed or prevented.” 
Bus. & Prof. Code §17001.  The
Unfair Business Practices Act shall include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice.”  Bus. &
Prof. Code §17200.  The Unfair Business
Practices Act is a tool with which to enjoin deceptive or sharp practices.  Samura v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 1284, 1299, fn. 6.  A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.  Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 612, 619.   
Defendants argue that a borrower
who defaults on a loan before the defendant’s alleged wrongful acts does not
have standing to sue under Section 17200 because the default caused the
foreclosure proceedings, credit damage, late fees, etc., not the defendant’s
conduct.  See Jenkins v. JP Morgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 497, 522-523, disapproved on
other grounds by Yvanova v. New Century Mortg. Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th
919, 929.  Thus, plaintiff lacks
standing.  Defendants further argue that
plaintiff fails to allege any wrongful conduct under the UCL.
The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient and conclusory. 
Plaintiff does not allege sufficiently conduct that violated the
UCL.  The allegations do not show
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct, and he has not alleged with
particularity.  Further, he lacks
standing.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Seventh
cause of action for declaratory relief
Defendants argue that plaintiff’s
substantive claims fail and that there is no dispute as to the ownership of the
property, that it was encumbered by the deed of trust under which plaintiff
defaulted, and that Citadel had a right to foreclose.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Motion to Strike  
Defendant Citadel requests that the
Court strike attorney’s fees in paras. 53, 62, and 91; any request for
disgorgement, or restitution damages; any request for punitive damages; and the
prayer.  
In light of the ruling on the
demurrer, the motion is MOOT.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through seventh cause of action in the
complaint.
The motion to strike is MOOT. 
Defendant Citadel is ordered to
give notice of ruling.