 Case Number:  22STCV00603    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 6, 2022, Plaintiff Alen Vartanian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Glendale (“Defendant”) and Does 1-60 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On
December 15, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to dismiss to be heard on January
18, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.  The Court continued the
hearing on the motion to March 26, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant asks the Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s action. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (f)(4),
provides: 
“(f) The court may dismiss the complaint as to that
defendant when: 
* * *
 “(4) After a motion to strike the whole of a complaint
or portion thereof is granted with leave to amend the plaintiff fails to amend
it within the time allowed by the court and either party moves for dismissal.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (f)(4).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
September 25, 2023, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer and granted
Defendant’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint. The Court
struck (1) “Count 1—Negligence” in the first cause of action for premises
liability, (2) “Count 2—Willful Failure to Warn [Civil Code section 846]” in
the first cause of action for premises liability, and (3) the second cause of
action for negligence. The Court granted Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
has not filed an amended complaint. 
In addition to the stricken claims, Plaintiff has alleged a claim against Defendant for premises
liability based on a dangerous condition of public property.  (See, e.g., Defendant’s Motion to Strike p. 4
[“Plaintiff’s allegations amount to a claim for an alleged dangerous condition
of public property, not negligence. The applicable statutory authority for that
claim is found in Government Code sections 830–835.4. Accordingly, ‘Dangerous
Condition of Public Property,’ not ‘General Negligence,’ is the proper claim
based on Plaintiff’s allegations, which Plaintiff has already brought as Count
Three of this same cause of action.”].)  
The
Court’s rulings on Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike did not affect Plaintiff’s
claim for premises liability based on a dangerous condition of public property.  Plaintiff therefore is entitled to proceed
with this claim.  (See L. Edmon & C.
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
11:279, p. 11-105 [“Note that a dismissal can be ordered only where the
demurrer has been sustained, or the motion to strike granted, as to all causes
of action in the complaint.  Otherwise,
of course, the action must proceed to trial on the balance of the complaint . .
.”].) 
Even
if the Court has discretion to dismiss the complaint in this situation, the
Court declines to exercise that discretion because Plaintiff has asserted a
claim for relief which remains unadjudicated. 
The
Court denies Defendant’s motion to dismiss. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant City of Glendale’s motion to dismiss. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.