 Case Number:  22STCV37453    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 30, 2022, Plaintiff Agustina Bizarro Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), S.B. Community Homes,
Inc. dba Kilgore Manor (“Kilgore”), and Does 1-25 for statutory liability/dangerous
condition of public property and premises liability. 
On
January 30, 2023, the City and Kilgore filed answers. 
On
April 3, 2023, the City filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Kilgore
and Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory
relief. 
On
February 8, 2024, Kilgore filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff,
to be heard on May 1, 2024. 
On
February 21, 2024, Kilgore filed a motion to advance the hearing on its motion
for summary judgment or in the alternative to continue the trial.  The motion was set to be heard on March 26,
2024.  On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On March 19, 2024, Kilgore filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Kilgore
asks the Court to advance the hearing on its motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, continue the trial. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The addition
of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which
the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332.) 

B.   Summary judgment timing    
          Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a),
provides:         
“(a) (1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State
of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address
is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile transmission,
express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery,
the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The
filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must
otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a).)DISCUSSION         
Kilgore
filed a timely motion for summary judgment. 
However, due to the Court’s impacted calendar, the first available date
for a hearing was May 1, 2024, which is less than 30 days before the scheduled
trial.  Kilgore argues the Court should
advance the hearing on the summary judgment motion to April 29, 2024 or
continue the trial. 
          Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing Kilgore has not been
diligent and should have moved for summary judgment earlier to avoid the timing
problem it now faces. 
“A
trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the
time limits of section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. [Citation.].”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.) 
The
Court’s schedule cannot accommodate an earlier date for the summary judgment
hearing.  Therefore, the Court denies the
request to advance the hearing on the summary judgment motion. 
Instead,
the Court grants Kilgore’s motion to continue the trial to ensure that the
Court can hear Kilgore’s timely filed summary judgment motion.  The Court continues the trial to June 5, 2024.
 Discovery and related dates will be
based on the June 5, 2024 trial date.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant S.B. Community Homes, Inc. dba Kilgore Manor’s motion to
continue the trial and related dates.  The
Court continues the trial to June 5, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse. The Final Status Conference is continued to May 22, 2024, at 10:00
a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and
related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.