 Case Number:  20STCV28647    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV28647




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Stay of Entire Case




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Myranda Isabelle de la Cruz




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  B. Deirmenjian DDS, Inc. and Barouir Deirmenjian 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 29, 2020, Plaintiff Myranda Isabelle De La Cruz (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Mission Hills Shopping Center, LLC, Angel de Jesus
Hernandez, Maritza Hernandez, and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, for injuries
sustained on Mission Hills’ property at 10321 Sepulveda Boulevard, Mission
Hills, CA 91345 (“Premises”). Plaintiff alleges two causes of action for
general negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff alleges in the negligence
cause of action that she was struck by a vehicle while on the Premises. In her
premises liability cause of action, Plaintiff alleges she tripped on a pothole
on the Premises. At the time of her injury, Plaintiff was employed by B.
Deirmenjian DDS, Inc. which leased an office on the Premises.
 
On September 12, 2023, the Court granted Defendant Mission Hills
Shopping Center, LLC’s motion for summary judgment on the basis that the lease
agreement signed between Mission Hills and B. Deirmenjian DDS, Inc. contained a
provision precluding liability. On September 12–13, 2023, Plaintiff filed several
doe amendments to the complaint, adding multiple tenants of the shopping mall.
 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of the summary
judgment. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to stay all proceedings under Code of Civil
Procedure section 916(a), or alternatively, through the Court’s discretionary
powers. Defendants B. Deirmenjian DDS, Inc. and Barouir Deirmenjian
(“Defendants”) oppose and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 916(a) places a stay on certain proceedings in a
trial court while an appeal is perfected. The section stays proceedings “upon
the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or
affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 916(a).) “The purpose of the
automatic stay provision of section 916, subdivision (a) ‘is to protect the
appellate court's jurisdiction by preserving the status quo until the appeal is
decided.’” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th
180, 189.) A proceeding “affects the effectiveness of an appeal if the possible
outcomes on appeal and the actual or possible results of the proceeding are
irreconcilable.” (Id. at 190.)¿ 
 
“In determining whether a proceeding is embraced in or affected by the
appeal, we must consider the appeal and its possible outcomes in relation to
the proceeding and its possible results. ‘[W]hether a matter is “embraced” in
or “affected” by a judgment [or order] within the meaning of [section 916]
depends on whether postjudgment [or postorder] proceedings on the matter would
have any effect on the “effectiveness” of the appeal.’ [Citation.] ‘If so, the
proceedings are stayed; if not, the proceedings are permitted.’¿[Citation.]” (Id.
at 189.)
 
However, “[t]he fact that the postjudgment or postorder proceeding may
render the appeal moot is not, by itself, enough to establish that the
proceeding affects the effectiveness of the appeal and should be stayed under
section 916. Rather, something more is needed. For example, the trial court
proceeding must directly or indirectly seek to ‘enforce, vacate or modify [the]
appealed judgment or order.’ [Citation.]” (Id.) “Or the proceeding must
substantially interfere with the appellate court's ability to conduct the
appeal.” (Id. at 190.) Alternatively, “a proceeding affects the
effectiveness of the appeal if the very purpose of the appeal is to avoid the
need for that proceeding. In that situation, the proceeding itself is
inherently inconsistent with a possible outcome on appeal and must therefore be
stayed under section 916, subdivision (a).” (Id.) Also, if the
Legislature has established by law that certain proceedings are collateral to
the merits of the appeal, then they are not covered under section 916. (Id.
at 191 [noting that a motion for new trial is collateral to the judgment; a
proceeding to expunge a lis pendens is collateral to the judgment; and a
postjudgment or postorder proceeding is collateral if the proceeding could or
would have occurred regardless of the outcome of the appeal].) 
 
Alternatively, Code of Civil Procedure section 128 gives the Court
broad power to control the actions before it. 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in
the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  A
stay of proceedings is an equitable remedy, the issuance of which rests in the
Court's discretion.  (See, e.g., Webster
v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 46 Cal. 3d 338, 345.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff argues all proceedings should be stayed because the
purpose of the appeal is to avoid the litigation with the new Doe defendants. Plaintiff
seeks to reverse the trial court’s ruling that the lease agreement signed
between Mission Hills and B. Deirmenjian DDS, Inc. precluded liability. Plaintiff
argues that if the interpretation of the agreement is upheld, then Plaintiff’s
only recourse under the agreement is to file a claim against the tenants’
insurance policy. Plaintiff appears to argue on appeal that the tenants are not
responsible for injuries to common areas of the premises. However, given the
Court’s ruling, Plaintiff must pursue conflicting legal theories in the trial
and appellate courts. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue the issue of the tenants’ liability is
not embraced by the summary judgment motion. They also note that the tenants
are all subject to mandatory dismissals. In reply, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants would not be severely prejudiced by a stay and notes that only two
defendants filed an opposition to this motion. 
 
However, the only defendants that appear to remain in this action are
Angel De Jesus Hernandez and Maritza Hernandez, Express Services, Inc.,
Martinez Tax Service, Mission Mortgage Company, Value Cleaners, and Rite Aid
Corporation.
 
As to Defendants Angel De Jesus Hernandez and Maritza Hernandez, it
appears that an application for determination of good faith settlement was
filed on February 2, 2023. No ruling on this application appears on the Court’s
docket. The parties shall address the status at the hearing on this motion.
 
Defendant Express Services, Inc. has a motion to dismiss set for March
4, 2024.
 
Defendants Martinez Tax Services and Mission Mortgage Company defaulted
on October 23, 2023.
 
Defendant Value Cleaners has not been served.
 
Defendant Rite Aid Corporation was served on September 20, 2023.
 
Accordingly, there does not appear to be a basis to stay the
proceedings as to these remaining defendants.
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to stay the entire case is denied. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 