  Case Number:  20STCV00145    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV00145




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Subpoenas 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Matthew Morgan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Adan Villareal



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 2, 2020, Plaintiff Matthew Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Infinity Insurance Company, Adan Villareal, Geico,
and Does 1 to 10 for negligence related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On April 11, 2023, the Court entered default judgment against
Defendant Adan Villareal (“Defendant”). On September 19, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion to set aside the default and default judgment. On
September 19, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. At a trial setting conference,
trial was set for March 6, 2024. (Min. Order, 10/6/23.) On January 22, 2024,
the Court continued trial but all discovery deadlines were set according to the
trial date of March 6, 2024 until further orders by the Court. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to quash twenty-one (21) subpoenas issued by Defendant
on the basis that they were issued when discovery was closed. Plaintiff also argues
the subpoenas seek information that is irrelevant and protected by a privacy
right. Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions.  Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the
California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To
the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information
to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Defendant argues that this motion is
procedurally improper. Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 requires “written
notice” of a motion including the date, time and location of the hearing on a
motion. A moving party’s failure to serve the notice of motion and moving
papers on a non-moving party violates the basic principles of procedural due
process under the federal and state constitutions – notice and an opportunity
to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455 U.S. 422, 428
[minimum due process requires notice and opportunity for hearing appropriate to
the nature of the case]; Horn v. County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605,
612 [due process principles require reasonable notice and opportunity to be
heard].) Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b), moving papers must be
served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. Applying this, 16
court days before the current hearing was January 29, 2024. Additionally, if
notice is served electronically, the 16-day notice period is increased by two-court
days. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a).) 
 
Here,
according to the proof of service, Plaintiff served notice of the instant
motion electronically. Therefore, notice of this motion was due January 25,
2024 (two court days before January 29, 2024). According to the proof of
service, Plaintiff served this motion on January 30, 2024. Therefore, because
notice was not provided within the minimum timeline provided by section 1005,
the motion is procedurally defective. 
 
However, the Court notes
that Defendant has filed an opposition to the motion. To the extent that
Defendant requires additional time, the Court would consider a short
continuance.
 
Plaintiff
argues that third-party subpoenas were originally served in June 2023. Those
subpoenas were withdrawn as Defendant was still in default. However, the
renewed subpoenas in exhibit B, which Plaintiff received January 18, 2024 and
January 22, 2024 (Morgan Decl. ¶ 5, 12), do not correspond to the records from Wellspace
Health (subpoena # 1, 2), State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance (subpoena #
12), and CSAA Insurance Exchange, that Defendant already received. (Morgan
Decl. ¶ 13, 15.) Therefore, it does not appear that renewed subpoenas were
re-served on Plaintiff. Copies of a “business records” subpoena must be served
on the consumer and all other parties who have appeared in the action. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.220(b), 1985.3(b).) 
 
Moreover,
the subpoenas appear to have return dates of February 15, 2024. Any party shall
be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before
the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard before
the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the
action. (Code Civ. Proc.§ 2024.020 (a).)¿ Since trial was set in this case on
March 6, 2024, the discovery cutoff was February 5, 2024. To the extent that
any records were received after February 5, 2024, they were obtained after the
discovery cutoff.
 
The Court
denies the request for sanctions, given the procedural defect in filing the
motion.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
     