..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV09536
Plaintiff's Name: California Credits Group, LLC
Defendant's Name: Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, et al.
People-Names: Maurice A. Leiter (Judge)
Company-Names: Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, Foster Farms, LLC, California Credits Group, LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: January 6, 2025
Events: Motion to Seal, Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To seal certain records filed in connection to Defendants' motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
Facts: Private financial and proprietary information of Defendants that would be detrimental to them if made public
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Motion to Seal, Filing of records
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: CRC Rule 2.550(d), CRC Rule 2.551(b)(1)
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements: "The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has ruled that the motion to seal certain records filed by the defendants, Foster Poultry Farms, LLC, and Foster Farms, LLC, is granted. The defendants had moved to seal these records because they contain private financial and proprietary information that would be detrimental to them if made public. The judge found that the defendants had established an overriding interest in sealing the records, and that the factors set out in California Rules of Court Rule 2.550(d) had been met. The judge's ruling is based on the defendants' declaration and memorandum, which provided sufficient facts to justify the sealing of the records. The defendants are ordered to notice the parties, and the court will consider the moving papers.
