  Case Number:  22STCV17208    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Mario Cardona,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV17208




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 6, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Plaintiff Mario Cardona
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF THE CAUSES OF ACTION FOR RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF THE LABOR
CODE AND FEHA IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF THE CAUSE OF ACTION FOR RACE DISCRIMINATION IN VIOLATION OF
FEHA IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff Mario
Cardona filed the operative first amendment complaint against Defendant City of
Los Angeles, asserting causes of action for (1) whistleblower retaliation; (2)
retaliation in violation of FEHA; and (3) discrimination in violation of FEHA.
Plaintiff is a police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant, via his supervisor Alcenda Neal, retaliated against him for
refusing to rescind a parking violation by transferring him out of a specialty
unit and initiating various complaints against him, impeding his ability to be
promoted within the department.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. Failure to Exhaust Administrative
Remedies
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims for retaliation and discrimination in
violation of FEHA on the ground that Plaintiff failed to exhaust administrative
remedies. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s DFEH complaint lacks particular
facts and allegations necessary to exhaust administrative remedies.  
 
Plaintiff filed for an immediate right to sue with the DFEH on January
25, 2022. In his Complaint of Discrimination, Plaintiff clearly identified and
checked every box for each of his viable FEHA claims against the Defendant. Plaintiff
alleged discrimination based on race and national origin. Plaintiff also
identified that he was retaliated against “because [he] reported or resisted
any form of discrimination or harassment, [and] participated as a witness in a
discrimination or harassment complaint.” Plaintiff also listed his employer,
the City of Los Angeles, concerning the unlawful conduct Plaintiff suffered and
provided Defendant’s principal place of business as the address for the City of
Los Angeles. The Complaint of Discrimination was verified by Plaintiff’s
counsel; the Right-to-Sue letter instantly issued and exhaustion of administrative
remedies was complete. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as
to exhaustion of administrative remedies. The motion cannot be granted on this
basis.
 
B. Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
 
To establish a claim for discrimination
in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must generally prove that (1) he or she was
a member of a protected class; (2) that he or she was qualified for the
position he or she sought or was performing competently in the position he or
she held; (3) that he or she suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4) some other
circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive. (See Guz v. Bechtel National,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)  
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s claim for
race discrimination fails because Plaintiff cannot establish that Neal made any
decisions based on Plaintiff’s race. Defendant again asserts that Plaintiff was
removed from GED due to his own conduct. Plaintiff does not address this cause
of action in opposition. Plaintiff has failed to establish a triable issue of
fact as to discrimination.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the cause of action for race discrimination is GRANTED.
 
C. Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
 
To establish retaliation under FEHA, a
plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2)
the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A
retaliation claim can be brought by an employee who has complained of conduct
reasonably believed to be discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley
v. Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.)
 
Defendant asserts that the claim for
FEHA retaliation fails because Defendant did not engage in protected activity,
there is no causal connection between any protected activity and any adverse
employment action, and Defendant had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for
the alleged adverse employment action. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff presents
evidence showing he reported sexual harassment concerns, and showing
his belief that Neal made personnel decisions based on race, in particular preferential
treatment for Black employees. Plaintiff
also presents evidence showing that, following his complaints, Plaintiff was
kicked out of GED on December 16, 2020. Shortly thereafter, on December 22,
2020, Neal initiated a personnel complaint against him. On or about February
17, 2021, unbeknownst to Plaintiff, his supervisor, Captain Scot Williams wrote
an action item alleging that there was an “emerging pattern of questionable
decision-making” by Plaintiff—even though he never had any complaints regarding
Plaintiff’s performance when he (Williams) supervised him. Shortly thereafter,
on May 5, 2021, Williams referred Plaintiff to RMEC. This is sufficient to
establish a triable issue of fact as to FEHA retaliation.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the claim for FEHA retaliation is DENIED.
 
D. Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code § 1102.5 
 
Defendant asserts the claim for
whistleblower retaliation fails because Plaintiff did not file a government
tort claim within six months of the retaliation and because there is no causal
connection between Plaintiff’s alleged protected activity and Defendant’s
adverse employment action. 
 
Plaintiff filed his government tort
claim on November 2021, having received the first adverse employment action in
December 2020. The tort claim also lists adverse employment actions alleging
Plaintiff received unfair discipline in October 2021; was
denied a promotion in September 2021 and was placed on Risk Management
Executive Committee List in July 2021. Under the continuing violations
doctrine, there is a triable issue of fact as to timeliness.
 
As for the merits of the claim,
Plaintiff presents evidence showing he refused to rescind a parking ticket for
Neal believing it to be a violation of law, and complained that Neal engaged in
sexual harassment and made decisions based on race. Thereafter, Plaintiff was
transferred from his assignment. Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant
retaliated against him by making false complaints against him and denying him
the opportunity to compete for an open GED position. This is sufficient to
create a triable issue of fact as to whistleblower retaliation.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the cause of action for whistleblower retaliation is DENIED.
 
 
 