 Case Number:  23STCV09893    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Teresa Washington, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09893 (Related to 23STCV21254)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
5950 Main, LP, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 6, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Consolidate;
Motion to Vacate Trial Date
Moving Party: Defendant Main Street Vistas
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Teresa Washington, et al.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO VACATE AND
CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition.
 
A. Motion to Consolidate
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending
before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (CCP §
1048(a).) 
 
Defendant Main Street Vistas moves to consolidate (1) Teresa
Washington, et al v. 5950 MAIN LP, et al., Case Number 23STCV09893 (Washington); and (2) Carlos Serrano, et al. v. 5950 MAIN LP
Case Number 23STCV21254 (Serrano).
 
Defendant argues that the cases should be consolidated because they
contain common issues of law and fact. Both actions involve tenant plaintiffs
suing over habitability conditions in the same building. Defendant asserts that
the actions involve the same conditions, the same property, the same evidence
and witnesses and the same Defendants. Plaintiffs do not oppose this motion.
 
The Court finds that there are common issues of fact and law, making
consolidation appropriate. Defendant’s motion to consolidate is GRANTED.
 
B. Motion to Vacate Trial Date
 
While trial continuances are generally
disfavored, pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1332(c), circumstances that indicate good
cause for a continuance include “[a] party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(c)(6).) Factors the Court may consider include,
“[t]he proximity of the trial date,” “[w]hether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party,” and
“[t]he length of the continuance requested.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Defendant moves to continue the current
trial date of February 3, 2025 out 90 to 120 days. Defendant asserts that
consolidation of the related cases, new legal representation and the need for
additional discovery require a short trial continuance. In opposition,
Plaintiffs assert that a continuance is not necessary because any outstanding
discovery exists due to Defendant’s delay and because the minor Plaintiffs, who
have suffered illness from the uninhabitable conditions will be prejudiced.
 
The Court finds a brief continuance
appropriate given the consolidation of related cases. This short continuance
will not prejudice Plaintiffs. The Court will set the trial date at the hearing.
 
The motion is GRANTED.


 