  Case Number:  24STCP01769    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  82 Flavien Prat v.
California Horse Racing Board
Case No.
24STCP01769
[Tentative] Order Dismissing
Case Without Prejudice
 
Petitioner Flavien Prat (“Petitioner”)
filed this action against the California Horse Racing Board (the “CHRB”) on
June 3, 2024, challenging his three-day suspension.  On June 3, 2024, the
court stayed the suspension pending Petitioner’s appeal to the CHRB.  (See
Court’s Minute Order, dated June 3, 2024.)
 
The court ordered Petitioner’s counsel to
file a status report concerning the status of the CHRB proceedings on or before
September 26, 2024.  The court also ordered Petitioner’s counsel to
provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  Petitioner’s
counsel failed to do so.  Petitioner’s counsel did not appear at the trial
setting conference on October 11, 2024.  Nor did Petitioner’s counsel
appear at the trial setting conference on November 5, 2024.  Petitioner’s counsel
has never served the CHRB with a copy of the petition or filed a proof of
service.  
 
In his petition, Petitioner admits that he
only filed his appeal with the CHRB on May 31, 2024, which was one court day
before he filed the instant petition.  (Petition ¶ 6.)  Petitioner
also admits that the CHRB appeal has not been resolved when he filed his
petition.  (See id. ¶¶ 6-7.)  Finally, Petitioner suggests that the
appeal should have been resolved by now.  (See id. ¶ 7.)
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court noticed
its own motion for judgment on the pleadings, per Code of Civil Procedure
438(b)(2), on the following grounds: (1) This petition is not ripe because it
was filed before Petitioner exhausted his administrative remedies; or, in the
alternative, (2) The petition is moot because the appeal has been resolved, and
Petitioner’s lack of prosecution of this matter suggests that it was resolved
in his favor.  (See Court’s Order dated November
5, 2024.)  The court provided notice of
its motion and set a hearing for December 3, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.  (See ibid.) 
The court ordered that any opposition shall be filed on or before
November 18, 2024.  (See ibid.)  The court provided notice: “[A]bsent good
cause, the court intends to dismiss this case without prejudice at the upcoming
hearing.”
 
Petitioner filed no opposition.  The court posted this tentative order on
Friday, November 29, 2024, at approximately 9:30 a.m.  In this tentative order, the court provides the
following notice: If Petitioner’s counsel does not appear at the hearing,
either remotely or in-person, the court will dismiss this case without prejudice,
which shall lift the stay the court previously ordered.  
 
Having provided notice and opportunity to
be heard, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         The
court grants its own motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
2.         The
court dismisses this case without prejudice.
 
3.         The
stay of Petitioner’s suspension shall be lifted, effective immediately.
 
4.         The
court discharges the order to show cause re: monetary sanctions.
 
5.         The
court’s clerk shall serve a copy of this order upon Petitioner’s counsel.
 
6.         Petitioner’s
counsel shall serve a copy of this order upon the CHRB and file a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 