 Case Number:  22STCV19033    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 10, 2022, Plaintiff Glenn Handsor filed this action against Defendants Southern California Gas Company, Jesus Garcia,
and Does 1-25 for (1) negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, and (3) negligent
hiring, supervision or retention. 
On
November 22, 2022, Defendants Southern California Gas Company and Jesus Garcia
(“Defendants”) filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Glenn
Handsor and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, apportionment and contribution,
and declaratory relief. 
On
December 22, 2022, Defendants filed a first amended cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, apportionment and
contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 29, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel Maria
Delsocorro Tello to attend a deposition, to be heard on September 27, 2023.  No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 8, 2023. 
PARTIES' REQUEST 
Defendants
request that the Court order non-party Maria Delsocorro Tello (“Deponent”) to
comply with their deposition subpoena. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A
party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may
obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena
for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) A deposition
subpoena may command the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as
the production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The Court may
order a third party to comply with a deposition subpoena upon any terms or
condition that the court declares. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480
provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. . . ." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants
cite Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 as authority for their
motion.  (Motion p. 6.)  Subdivision (c) of the statute provides in
part: “Notice of this motion shall be
given to all parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or
by subsequent service in writing.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (c).)  Because Defendants
contend that Deponent did not appear at the previously-scheduled deposition, Defendants were required
to serve notice of the motion in writing on Deponent. 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides: “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.) 
The
proof of service attached to Defendants’ motion to compel does not show service
of any kind on Deponent.  The Court
therefore denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Southern California Gas Company and Jesus
Garcia to compel Maria Delsocorro Tello
to attend a deposition. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.